ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday 16th working week. To begin with, members of the Riigikogu are able to deliver drafts and questions. There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered, missing 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U2	Today we have three items on the agenda. The first item is the Eesti Pank Annual Report 2019. Before we go to this item, I will briefly present the procedure. First, Madis Müller, Governor of Eesti Pank, will give a presentation, which will last up to 30 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu will then be able to ask the rapporteur one oral question, and the representatives of the political groups may take the floor in the negotiations. All right, ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the agenda. The first item is the Eesti Pank Annual Report 2019 and I ask Madis Müller, Governor of Eesti Pank, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U3	Good morning. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to present to you today the Eesti Pank Annual Report 2019. On rare occasions, by the beginning of June, the economic situation has been so different from what we have all assumed...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U4	Can you fix the microphones a little better? Yeah, that's better.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U5	On rare occasions, by the beginning of June, the economic situation will be so different from what we probably all expected almost six months ago. As a result, when discussing the situation of the Estonian economy and the activities of Eesti Pank today, it is appropriate to talk about more than is stated in the bank's report for the previous year. However, since I have come to you specifically to talk about the bank's activities in 2019, let me do both of these things first of all to highlight the most important activities in the work of the central bank last year, but I also share Eesti Pank's assessment of the economy and economic policy choices. Then I will be happy to answer your questions. According to the law, you have given Eesti Pank a number of different tasks. On the one hand, we are dealing well with practical issues such as the organisation of cash circulation, the development of payment systems and the collection and publication of statistics. On the other hand, we have a responsibility to ensure the stability of the financial sector, to manage Estonia's foreign currency reserves, to advise on economic policy issues and, of course, to participate as the central bank of the euro area in the formulation of monetary policy for the euro area as a whole. The ultimate aim of Eesti Pank's activities is to support the stable development of the economy and the growth of the wealth of our society. To achieve this, we maintain the value and purchasing power of our money by designing a common monetary policy with other central banks in the euro area, but also by ensuring, for example, that the Estonian financial sector is not too fragile and the circulation of money works perfectly. We need a high-quality economic analysis to carry out our work, and we need to ensure that our analyses and economic data are available to everyone else. I will begin by taking stock of the practical and directly perceived activities of our activities in relation to the circulation of money. Both the availability of cash and electronic payments are vital services within the meaning of the Act and we take their reliability in Eesti Pank very seriously. To sum up, the circulation of money last year worked smoothly in Estonia. The availability of cash has clearly improved over the last few years, in cooperation between Eesti Pank and banks, cash carriers and more and more shops. The distribution of the bank withdrawal service at the store has contributed to this. The points where people can use this service are already 675 in Estonian gas stations and stores. During the year, we issued 840 million euros in banknotes and coins from Eesti Pank and were reimbursed 540 million euros. In total, we issued more than 21 million coins, most of which were one- and two-cent coins. These last ones we keep producing, but they almost never make it back to the central bank. We therefore wish to continue discussions with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in order to introduce rounding rules in Estonia in the future, as in several other countries, which would reduce the cost of small coins for both consumers and merchants. Nearly 70% of the people of Estonia support this idea and I am sure that acting wisely does not pose a risk to price increases by applying rounding rules. Electronic payments also worked impeccablely last year. In Estonia, we are at the forefront of the introduction of so-called instant payments, thanks to which money moves between accounts in different banks in just a few seconds. By the end of last year, Swedbank, SEB, LHV and Coop Pank had joined the instant payment system in Estonia, which means that the service is available to the majority of Eesti Pank's customers. We have set one of our strategic goals at Eesti Pank to achieve the best possible preparedness for all possible emergencies, which is important, among other things, so that we can ensure that cash circulation and payments are functioning as vital services. Together with our partners, we have played through different crisis scenarios, tested and prepared emergency plans. We have invested in ensuring that the statistics produced by Eesti Pank are as easily accessible and usable as possible, and we have also invested in data collection applications. Last year, we also specified the division of labour between us and Statistics, with whom we have good cooperation, in order to avoid duplication. One of Eesti Pank's less publicised activities is investment activity, which aims to maintain and grow the Estonian foreign currency reserves in a prudent manner, as well as to cover our operating costs and provide an adequate buffer to cover the financial risks that the central bank will inevitably incur. The central bank's investment portfolio increased significantly in 2019 to EUR 1.2 billion by the end of the year. We have invested mainly in high-quality bonds, to a lesser extent in the stock markets of developed countries. The return on the investment portfolio of Eesti Pank was exceptionally good last year; we earned almost 39 million euros in income from investments. This gave us the opportunity to make a budget allocation larger than normal from our annual profits to the state budget, which this time amounted to almost EUR 19 million. Since 1992, the central bank has allocated more than 170 million euros of its profits to the state budget. Now I come to the part of Eesti Pank's activities related to economic analysis, monetary policy, financial sector issues and our economic policy recommendations. I will start with developments in the euro area and explain the monetary policy decisions taken by the European Central Bank with our participation. We are usually talking about the global economic development of the euro area to put last year in context. This time, unfortunately, we are in a unique situation where speaking about last year will affect you to see that as a beautiful memory of something very distant. However, I will start with the past: global economic growth was 2.9% in 2019 and the euro area economy grew by 1.2%. Until the end of 2019, we could talk about a moderate economic recovery after the trade wars between countries, but today we are facing a global recession. Let us recall even the January IMF forecast, which promised more than 3% growth this year. In April, however, the IMF was already forecasting a global recession of the same magnitude. In developed countries, the recession will be even twice as fast. Such a great decline in such a short period of time has rarely been experienced in the past. The European Central Bank will publish a new economic forecast for the euro area on the day after tomorrow, 4 June, but we know that quarantine measures already in the first quarter have brought about a recession of nearly 4% in the euro area, and the decline in the second quarter is likely to be even faster. All forecasts, of course, depend on what the health situation will be in the second half of the year. If new quarantine measures are not needed to contain the virus and what has been done to mitigate the effects of the crisis is effective, then the economy may be relaunched quite quickly in the second half of the year, but this is not enough to reach the level we were in before the restrictions were imposed by the end of the year. The recovery of economic activity will be uneven across sectors and countries. It is likely that people will be cautious for a long time and will consider delaying higher spending. It can also be expected that external demand will fall from countries where the spread of the virus has increased and thus the impact will be greater. All forecasts are currently speculative, but the euro area's total production is likely to return to pre-pandemic levels from 2022. The impact of the pandemic and the steps taken to limit it on economic activity can be assessed with some precision, for example by making assumptions on the length of the quarantine period, while the impact on inflation is more difficult to accurately assess. Anti-viral measures reduce not only demand but also supply in the economy. The weak economic situation is likely to result in even slower price increases. At the same time, problems in the supply chains, for example, can lead to at least a temporary increase in the cost of some goods. The extreme volatility in oil prices is likely to have a greater impact on inflation in the short term than the monetary policy of the central banks. The short-term volatility of inflation, however, is also increasingly shaping expectations of long-term inflation. The main task of euro area central banks is, as we know, to maintain the value of the euro by ensuring that price increases are sufficiently low and stable in the euro area. It is important that inflation is not too fast and remains well below the target of 2% per annum in the medium term in order to increase economic and human wealth. At the beginning of last year, the central banks of the euro area followed the tightening of monetary policy, but during the year, it became clear that euro area price growth was clearly below the 2% inflation target, which is why we decided in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank to provide further support to the economy through monetary policy through a cut in interest rates and an increase in the volume of the asset purchase programme. An extremely gentle monetary policy is an important factor why credit growth has remained strong and the cost of corporate financing is favourable. In recent months, we have taken steps in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank to ensure that funding conditions continue to be favourable even in times of crisis, regardless of the increased uncertainty in the markets. Among other things, we have launched a comprehensive emergency and temporary asset purchase plan to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. We have also decided to provide banks with loans on better terms. All this is always so that banks can, in turn, lend to companies and households on more favourable terms. In addition, various national guarantee and support measures currently support business financing. Additional expenditure by governments to mitigate the effects of quarantine is expected to increase the public debt burden of European countries by around 10 to 15%. This is an unprecedented budgetary stimulus and, of course, it must be used as efficiently as possible. The Estonian economy has not been affected by the pandemic either. The first effects occurred immediately after the emergency situation was established and the measures taken to control the spread of the virus were implemented in mid-March. The restrictions imposed in Estonia and elsewhere led to problems in the functioning of supply chains. The closure of shopping centres and the fall in demand directly affected retail traders. The corona virus has also shaken the labour market here, especially in the service sector. Compared to the current crisis in the big picture, the service sector is now the most hit, and during the previous crisis it was the construction and real estate sectors. Against this background, the most current question in Estonia is probably how to cope with the economic effects of limiting the spread of the coronavirus. The government's current crisis measures have helped to keep jobs and ease the rise in unemployment. Companies have already received a salary benefit of 120000 employees, i.e. one in five Estonian employees. One in three employees out of five, one in four in the processing industry, has received wage subsidies in accommodation and catering. Without state support, unemployment would have increased exponentially. The crisis will reduce tax revenues and increase expenditure on social welfare. More pressure on the state budget may be expected to continue in the coming years. As the burden on the government budget is very high, taxpayers' money must be spent as efficiently as possible and directed towards those areas that help prevent long-term damage to the economy and support the adjustment of the Estonian economy to the post-crisis world. The economic recovery of both Estonia and other countries depends largely on the restrictions that countries had to use to limit the spread of the virus and for how long they will be in place. We assessed the impact of the duration of restrictions on the economy in the macro model of Eesti Pank through two scenarios. If the restrictions had been in place until the beginning of May, this would have meant a recession of around 6% for the economy in 2020. On the other hand, the restrictions in force until the beginning of August would have resulted in a decrease of 14%. Although the restrictions have been significantly relaxed so far, they are still affecting economic activity, and people are likely to be cautious for some time as they plan larger purchases. As the Estonian economy is focused on exports, the recovery of this economy is also largely dependent on what is happening in our main target markets. The previous talk was more in favour of a slow economic recovery, but it is still possible to highlight some aspects in support of a faster recovery. The situation in Estonia today is 2008. The Estonian economy and the financial sector were in a strong position before the crisis as a whole. Nor can it be ruled out that the deep global recession will be temporary and that, from the second half of this year, a rapid recovery can be seen from country to country in the event of deregulation. Support measures for governments and central banks will certainly play an important role in recovery, but uncertainty is, overall, very high. I will also stop briefly on issues relating to the financial sector, as problems in banking may, at worst, exacerbate problems in the rest of the economy, and without a well-functioning financial sector, recovery from the crisis would certainly be much more difficult. Eesti Pank is responsible for the implementation of macro-financial supervision in Estonia, which aims to increase the resilience of the financial system, so that access to credit is not interrupted in the economy even during difficult times. To this end, Eesti Pank has introduced additional capital buffer requirements for banks, as well as general principles that banks must comply with when issuing housing loans. In general, Estonian commercial banks are in a strong financial position, both in comparison with banks in other countries and in relation to the last crisis. However, in March we decided to pre-empt the problems in Eesti Pank to alleviate the capital requirements of the banks and to bring the systemic risk buffer requirement from 1% to 0%. This will free up EUR 110 million of capital for banks, which will allow them to provide additional loans to people and businesses at a difficult time or to cover loan losses that will certainly reach the banks with some delay. In addition, together with the Financial Supervision Authority and the European Central Bank, we gave a clear signal to the banks that, at a time when the banks' capital requirements are being relaxed by regulators, it is not possible to weaken the capital by paying the right dividends from the bank's owners. It has been very important that banks have flexibly offered payment holidays to their customers and have, in so doing, agreed jointly that, by changing their loan payment schedules, interest rates will not be increased, despite increased risks, nor will the normal contractual conversion fee be charged. This has provided significant relief for businesses and, for example, families who have taken housing loans during the crisis. At the same time, the provision of payment leave for all those wishing to pay means that the number of customers who may be permanently in difficulty by repaying the loan is not initially particularly well-perceived. Therefore, losses arising from problematic loans may only occur in the banking sector after several quarters. It is noteworthy, however, that the banks were able to give almost all of the customers who had expressed their wish to give their payment leave without using the additional guarantees offered by the State through KredEx. On the one hand, the banks were forced to react more quickly than they had approved the conditions of state guarantees, on the other hand, the conditions of the guarantees have now been confirmed such that the banks do not consider their use economically reasonable. This does not mean, however, that there is no need for KredEx's guarantees. In the near future, it would be wise to agree on more precise conditions for cooperation with banks, in particular with regard to new corporate liquidity loans, which are likely to increase even after the agreed payment holidays have ended. The guarantee provided by KredEx under reasonable conditions would then also provide an opportunity to obtain additional loans for those companies whose risks in the context of the economic crisis may otherwise be too high from the point of view of one commercial bank. Let me also give a brief overview of the central bank's activities during the corona crisis. One of the most critical issues for us is the provision of vital services. Fortunately, the crisis resulting from the pandemic did not directly affect the functioning of payments or cash circulation. However, we were ready to do so and we managed to cope with the short-term increase in cash demand at the start of the emergency situation. However, in times of emergency, both cash demand and payments volumes were rather smaller than usual, but they have only started to recover. In cooperation with the banks, we found an opportunity to publish short-term statistics on how the use of cash and making payments have changed during the crisis. This information is available on the website of Eesti Pank. As has already been mentioned, we have put the so-called systemic risk buffer on all banks to 0%, which has released additional capital for banks to cover loan losses and to grant new loans. At the end of March, we prepared a flash estimate of how deep the recession could develop this year. We also proposed recommendations on which principles it is worth supporting the economy. Our main message was that primary measures aimed at preventing business bankruptcy and protecting people's incomes should be as immediate as possible, implemented quickly and temporary. During the crisis, we also worked closely with the Riigikogu and the government to explain the central bank's recommendations and offer constructive comments on the plans to support the economy. Of course, we also had to adapt as an organisation, quickly creating technical opportunities for more workers to work in home offices and using the principle of separated teams for critical functions when teleworking is not possible. We did this too, and like many other organisations, we are already thinking about what we can learn from the experience of working in emergency situations and what we can use in our work organisation. Although this is not directly related to the emergency situation, we have started to review Eesti Pank's strategy more generally with our updated management last year. One important thing we are thinking about is how to be as good an advisor as possible to the government on economic policy issues, but also to policy makers in general. This is a task assigned to us by law, and we take it seriously. We want to offer independent and expert analysis and comments on important economic policy issues and bring together experts and politicians to hold an economic policy debate. Last year, for example, Eesti Pank's impact analysis of planned changes to the pension system was a seminar organised in cooperation with the IMF, where external experts dissected the benefits and disadvantages of pension systems in different countries. Due to the special situation, the debate we had planned on the availability of banking services was delayed due to the situation in which several companies complain about the overconfidence of banks in the light of recent money laundering scandals. One issue that should also be considered more closely is external labour, for example. In the near future, Eesti Pank's focus will be on how to support the post-crisis recovery of the economy by participating in the formulation of monetary policy for the euro area as well as contributing to Estonia's economic policy choices. We are entering this stage of crisis, where more and more complex choices need to be made to whom and in what way to be publicly supported. In the wake of the Coronary crisis, it was reasonable to provide primary support for all companies and people who suddenly lost a large part of their current income, while it is worth being more selective in getting out of the crisis and better targeting the state's support. Firstly, uniform support for all businesses is too expensive for the taxpayer and, secondly, it may be detrimental to the economy in the long term, as it is resisting the inevitable need for the economy to adapt to new conditions. It is wise to make decisions today that are aimed precisely at making it as successful as possible for businesses and society as a whole. I will mention just a few areas whose importance will probably be greater after the crisis and which could be strongly contributed by the state. These thoughts are not new. Firstly, digitalisation of the economy is likely to become even more important. For example, a broader, well-targeted support to overcome Estonia's backwardness in the digitalisation of industry could be considered. Post-crisis time may offer new opportunities to Estonian manufacturing companies, as global supply chains are changing and we must be ready to seize this opportunity. It is also worth contributing to ensuring that high-quality data communication reaches every corner of Estonia. Secondly, people's retraining needs to be given greater support, as unemployment is increasing and the jobs needed for the economy are changing. It is worth investing in ensuring that people's skills match labour market requirements as well as possible, as this will enable us to improve the well-being of the people of Estonia. Let it also be said that if wage subsidies last too long, it is possible that taxpayers' money will extend the activities of companies that are not viable in changed circumstances. It makes more sense to provide people with social benefits in conjunction with retraining and to give them the opportunity to create new jobs. Thirdly, when launching larger investment projects, it is worth wondering whether they also support, for example, the climate objectives that the Estonian state has promised to pursue and the achievement of which will inevitably require an important contribution from both the state and the private sector. In addition, I would point out that it would be wise to take into account market participants' assessments of whether a particular company and business model will be competitive in the future, especially by providing state support through loans or guarantees to larger companies. Through KredEx or MES, it is worth offering guarantees to companies, especially partial guarantees, not so much direct loans. In this case, however, the bank's assessment of the long-term viability of the company as a lender will be maintained as a useful double check. The terms and conditions of the loans offered by KredEx and MES might not be very favourable, as they should be primarily intended to be used as a last resort for companies that do not receive loans from the bank. At the same time, in the case of guarantees, the conditions should be such as to make it actually reasonable for banks to use them. In order to support larger companies, it would be even better if additional contributions from owners or new investors at the same time were required to provide public financial support. Against this background, the State should pursue the objective of supporting only the continuation of strategically important business in strategic sectors and enterprises, and not the owners of individual companies to date. In a difficult situation, lending money to a large company will certainly entail an important risk and the taxpayer will have the right to expect fair compensation for that risk, otherwise the support will essentially go to the company's previous owners. Thus, in the case of larger companies, the State could not simply grant a favourable loan but require them, for example, to acquire a certain holding in the company on agreed terms. These were thoughts that I consider worth considering when designing the following support measures. We must remember that we cannot completely replace private sector demand as a result of the crisis, we can only cushion the impact of the crisis and create better conditions for economic recovery. We will certainly be able to consider more precise options in the near future. We are prepared in Eesti Pank to hold these discussions as well as to carry out all the other tasks arising from the law as best as possible. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U6	Thank you, Mr President of the Bank of Estonia. You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, thank you for this thorough presentation. In this presentation, you twice stressed your role as an advisor to the government and policy makers on economic policy issues. Would you be so kind as to give us some advice? Last week, the European Commission approved or had to come up with a proposal for a EUR 750 billion rescue package, which should also reach our tables for discussion. The determining element or key condition of this rescue package is that the common bonds issued by the Member States by the European Commission will not be reflected in Member States' debt statistics. Do you approve of this practice? Are there no major risks here in a situation where sovereign debt is unprecedentedly high and growing? Do you approve of the fact that the element of this noble rescue package is that debts will not be reflected in the statistics of the Member States?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U9	As far as the European Commission's proposal last week is concerned, I think, on the one hand, that we must agree that it would be beneficial for Europe if we could work together and in a coordinated way to get Europe out of the crisis as well as possible. This is ultimately also in the interests of the Estonian economy. Of course, it can be discussed here that if money is borrowed jointly on behalf of the European Commission when issuing bonds, what exactly should be the conditions for borrowing or distributing grants. I think it's definitely a more problematic side here. If the money is borrowed together and distributed to governments in the form of non-refundable subsidies, financial discipline may become weaker and therefore central control of spending is probably more important in the future. On this package, I also mention that I think it is also important that this package is now clearly considered temporary, both in volume and in time. As far as the specific issue of debt recognition is concerned, it is true that the money borrowed by the European Commission is not statistically reflected directly in the debt burden of governments. But I think we should remember, in essence, that in fact, every European state, including the Estonian state, the Estonian government, has a share of the responsibility for repaying the loan associated with this jointly borrowed money. This is definitely the point of discussion in the future: if the money has been borrowed together, with our participation, and we can use the borrowed money ourselves, then how to compare it with the rest of the Estonian state budget. And if we can replace some of the state budget expenditure in this way, with the money borrowed together, then perhaps it would be appropriate to be a little more conservative in planning our state budget expenditure. But I understand that this is a purely statistical fact. This may not be reflected in the number of sovereign debt, which does not mean that we do not have the responsibility to serve this loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U10	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! In your presentation, you stated that Eesti Pank has also made a record contribution to the state budget of Estonia, which was perhaps 19 million, if I remember correctly. But it seems that there has been little of this for the governments of Jüri Ratas, because a very large part of this so-called package of measures is still going to cover the budget gaps, which is actually a problem. In this respect, it could be said that the last governments have not listened to the advice of Eesti Pank. But the second topic you mentioned was the issue of migrant labour. I have such a question that, given the competition of products, the competition of companies, and also the competition of labour, how would the Estonian government succeed in implementing a policy in which we would be able to do without foreign labour. Do you see a perspective on this? The economic logic says that it cannot have a long-term, large-scale perspective. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U12	As I mentioned, I think that it would be worth a completely more in-depth debate on migrant workers. But let me comment briefly on that. First of all, I would like to say in the background that I only want to comment on the economic impact of the use of migrant workers, and that we are only talking about workers coming from outside the European Union, because within the European Union movement is free. With this in mind, I think that, in general, when assessing the contribution and necessity of migrant workers, I should ask myself whether foreign workers in a particular area are conditionally supplementing the Estonian labour market by creating new opportunities and jobs for local people, or, on the contrary, they are replacing Estonian workers and doing the same work, for which we would have people in Estonia, simply cheaper. The impact of external labour also depends on this in this case. In the first case, when it comes to people who create new jobs, it seems to me that only positive effects can be purely economic. On the other hand, if there are local people who could do the same job, but who are competing for workers coming from outside the European Union with lower wages, it is not good for them if immigrants do the same job cheaper. I think that all of this should be taken into account as a general framework when talking about external workers. In addition, the impact on the labour market may also depend on the overall situation of the labour market and the economy. If there are very good times in the economy and all Estonian workers are already busy, the need for foreign labour is greater for entrepreneurs. In the current situation, where unemployment is somewhat higher in Estonia, this tension may be slightly less. However, it is worth asking ourselves whether we also have external workers who actually have a positive impact on our labour market and create new jobs for locals. I think the answer to that question can only be yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U13	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, I was very pleased that you pointed out that the current situation actually gives new opportunities to new things. You pointed out that more attention could be paid to climate, for example, many companies could rethink and modernise their business activities. That was really nice. But my question is this: do you approve of the current steps that the Government of the Republic has taken, or, to say the least, if you were in government, what would you pay more attention to?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U15	These steps to deal with the crisis have been taken so much that we cannot comment on everything one by one. But with the focus once again only on economic and economic policy measures, we at Eesti Pank agree that, in a situation where the economy went into a sudden crisis as a result of the restrictions imposed on economic activity in both Estonia and other countries, it was certainly necessary and justified to provide strong and rapid support from the government to the economy. If we look, for example, at the forecast budget deficit for this year, which amounts to, I think, up to 10%, about half of it is due to the fact that the state's tax revenues are likely to decrease this year and, for example, without any further decisions, the expenditure on social welfare will increase. However, an additional 5% of GDP is the effect of these additional measures. I think that a large part of them, such as labour market measures aimed at people who would otherwise have lost their income very sharply, were certainly justified. The same can be said of the initial subsidies granted to companies in order to prevent a wave of bankruptcy. Criticism might have dared to address the conditions of KredEx's guarantees; it may have been difficult to get them right at first and think about what would be the easiest use for banks. But I think that the more complex part is still ahead of us to support the adjustment of the economy after providing initial support. There is a much greater range of options here, and I think it is important to be very careful to make the best possible use of budget money and to channel this support as best as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U16	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U17	Thank you, good manager. Good Governor of Eesti Pank, thank you for a very good presentation! I think that the role of Eesti Pank as an economic policy advisor has always been important and particularly important in a crisis situation. I encourage you to make good use of this mandate and continue to give advice. All these future-looking issues that you have highlighted in your presentation are certainly important, because countries do not emerge from this crisis in the same way. And in order for us to reach the next level of economic development, so that we do not remain infinitely ticking somewhere at 80% of the average level of labour productivity in the European Union, there is certainly a need to develop the economy. But my question is about the KredEx measures. This is the largest part of the aid package, which, as you said, has not worked well. What are these one, two or three of the most important things that should be changed for KredEx parameters?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U18	When speaking about KredEx guarantees and loans, as I mentioned in my report, it seems to me that, first of all, it makes sense not to channel so much of the resource into direct lending through KredEx or the MES, but rather to offer guarantees because it is possible to achieve a greater effect for the same amount of money and to support more companies. But speaking of guarantees for which a major failure has occurred, the problem is a specific provision which limits the total liability for each bank that uses KredEx guarantees to 15% of the total guaranteed portfolio. For example, if one commercial bank uses a guarantee of EUR 100 million, the maximum effective guarantee is 15 million for it, not 80 to 90% of the amount of the guaranteed loan, as usual. This, according to the banks, makes its use less economically fair, which is why very little has been done. I understand that this signal has also come from the KredEx Council to the government, and it is currently being discussed whether this 15% limit could be increased or, instead, cancelled in the case of new loans. In the past, when KredEx provided guarantees to the companies, there was no such loss limit and therefore, in times of crisis, the tightening of these conditions, compared to the usual ones, might not be justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U19	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! I have a question for you, as well as a sort of small proposition. As far as the pandemic is concerned, the government decided to grant state aid to companies so that they would not go bankrupt. That is to be welcomed. However, I was astonished by the reaction from banks based on foreign capital, which reported that the employees of companies that have benefited from State aid would no longer receive housing loans because they were not sustainable. Let's just say that the proverb 'whose power, its right' changed to say 'who money, that right'. I have such a proposal, in fact, the signal that came from foreign banks, was harmful to the Estonian economy, so that we should not form our own Estonian bank on the basis of this message, who would stand up for Estonian entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U21	I represent Eesti Pank, but we also have banks based on Estonian capital among commercial banks who are actually growing rapidly and are increasing their market share. However, as regards the specific reference to the position of banks in the case of mortgage borrowers, whether they should take into account that a person has received wage support or has used other State aid measures, I do not know that the banks have developed a common position. But here, of course, the background may be that the state has also said that when granting a loan to a person, the principles of'responsible lending' must be respected. If the bank has a well-founded fear that the company in which a person works is facing difficulties, which means that a person's income may be at risk, then it seems to me that the principles of responsible lending too, if you can see that the potential customer may have fewer incomes in the future, may affect the loan decision and the bank's willingness to lend to a person. It is likely that this principle was referred to in the particular case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U22	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U23	Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, I'm going to use your saying that speaking about last year will be a distant memory of something beautiful. You said that in your speech. This is a pretty overwhelming emotion in the countries where the pandemic went through. However, it is a question of the future. The measures taken by governments and central banks within and outside the European Union to mitigate economic losses are absolutely appropriate. However, analysts and more critical economics are urging that huge loans and financial measures create illusions in governments, not to say hasart. What risks do you see when placing money to alleviate the crisis suddenly gives rise to overly egotistical political ambitions? These amounts are high.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U24	Thank you. It is true that, in the current situation, both the steps taken by governments and additional expenditure on budgets, as well as the support provided by central banks in the form of very low interest rates, and the purchase of government and other bonds, are really providing such very important temporary support for economic growth or prevention of decline. But with regard to the future, it is certainly right that we should be careful that these measures remain temporary, because, as I referred to in my speech, the debt burden on European countries is likely to increase on average by around 10 to 15% after this crisis. In many countries it was already very low. As a central bank, we must understand that buying government bonds cannot last indefinitely. And now that we are coming out of the crisis, the European Central Bank must also begin to emerge from these government bond purchase programmes. This puts governments in a situation where they need to plan their finances more conservatively again, and if this is not the case, some countries may find it difficult to service their debt. In this sense, the problem is certainly the right one, and this must be borne in mind both by governments planning national budgets and by the European Central Bank and the central banks of other countries. We need to get out of these bond buy programmes quickly enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U25	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U26	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Estonian and European finances are inevitably influenced by global processes and the nature of the global monetary system. If we look at the global financial situation, the picture is a very worrying one, and it was already before the corona apandemia. At the beginning of this year, the global debt burden reached the highest level in the history of the world. The global debt burden is 252 trillion dollars and represents 322% of the total production in all countries. This is due to the current debt-based monetary system, which allows private banks to issue uncovered money in loans and central banks to cover up their debts with new money. Do you feel with me that such a monetary system is unsustainable? If so, what policy decisions should be taken to reform the monetary system?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U27	Thank you for your question. In my opinion, today's monetary system, which is essentially used in almost all countries of the world, is not fundamentally problematic, so that it should, in principle, begin to turn back somehow and go back to some earlier standards. However, the problem is, to which the previous question has already referred, that we may find ourselves in a situation where governments spend more on a long time than they allow for their tax revenues and other incomes. The government's debt is getting too high. On the other hand, central banks have now also been very active, for example, in buying government bonds, thus channeling additional money into the economy and indirectly supporting government lending, and this also allows for too much over-stepping in time and creating a lot of instability in the financial system. The fact that we can now turn all this back on time, I think it's important. There are certainly risks in the financial system in this sense today, but I would not say that it was essentially misstructured.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U28	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U29	Thank you. Mr. Müller! If I could advise the government and he would listen to me, I would say about four things about influencing the economy. Firstly, restrictions, including labour restrictions, are a major brake. Secondly, the reduction of energy excise duties is very expensive and very ineffective. Thirdly, the suspension and compensation of the second pillar is expensive and unreasonable. Fourthly, your crisis package stands, KredEx's money has gone down. Please accept me or object and comment!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U30	Thank you for your question. I think that we have already commented on many things as Eesti Pank. First of all, in the case of KredEx, it is really worth reviewing the terms of the guarantees. I understand that this message or understanding has also reached the government, and hopefully it will be planned. As far as suspension of funded pension payments is concerned, the comment made by Eesti Pank was rather sceptical, since there we did not see such an immediate link with the necessary economic measures with immediate effect. In this sense, I am also prepared to accept this point. As far as excise duties are concerned, as Eesti Pank in general, we have tried not to intervene too much in tax policy, because there are already so many possible political choices, which are, say, party political and perhaps dependent on the outlook. When we talk about the state budget, we would rather limit ourselves to commenting on the balance of such a general state budget and the appropriate budget volume and thus the impact on the economy. On labour restrictions, I have also already commented on our view. I think that this issue requires a broader debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U31	It requires a broader horizon. Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, thank you for your very thorough review. But my question concerns the European Commission's plan to raise 750 billion loans and share most of it, 500 billion, as a non-refundable loan to the so-called southern countries and a smaller part, 250 billion, to other Member States, but everyone should be jointly and severally involved. The new Member States, such as Estonia and our neighbouring countries, are not jointly and severally receiving this support, but now that there is a repayment or a loan, solidarity is at stake. What is your opinion: will the success of this plan harm these new Member States?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U33	Thank you for your question. As for the European Commission's so-called recovery fund proposal, as I referred to in the answer to one earlier question, I understand, on the one hand, that it is really reasonable for the European Union to work together to get out of this crisis as strong as possible. Finally, it is also in Estonia's interest that our trading partners, other European Union countries, too, return to the economy as soon as possible. What is done under what conditions and exactly how it is done, in this case by borrowing money together, is indeed a first-time one, that it is done on such a large scale, jointly by issuing debt through the Commission. I fully understand the questions that arise here. If public spending is still under government control and the state budget is put together by everyone, but it is financed jointly by borrowing money, then there could certainly be a risk that financial discipline might be less strict for governments than in a situation where everyone is responsible for both their own expenditure and their own revenue and loans. Therefore, it is certainly right to have such an in-depth debate where this right balance is located. In my view, this concern is certainly mitigated by the fact that this fund, which is a fund with limited time and volume, has been made specifically for the purpose of getting out of this crisis. And, of course, the state of Estonia, also affected by the pandemic, can also use the money of this fund itself. These are the different considerations that I think it is also worth considering thoroughly in the Riigikogu in order to shape the position of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U34	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U35	Good manager! Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, thank you very much for an interesting presentation, as well as for the overviews and publications you publish on the website of Eesti Pank! I am their frequent reader, and I often rely on the data from my articles. They are relevant and well presented. Thank you very much. My question concerns the data contained in one of your publications. Indeed, this crisis mostly reduced the turnover of cultural, health, tourism and catering businesses with the force of the law by 80%. At the same time, however, the measures for the first additional budget are the most financially significant for investments that support the construction sector, which is the experience of our previous crisis. My question is this: is 25 million for culture and 25 million for tourism sufficient for this sector, which gives 8% of GDP in Estonia, to survive this crisis, or should additional measures be put in place to support this sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U36	Thank you for your question and for your positive feedback to our audiences. I feel a little insecure, commenting specifically on the subsidies in one sector and whether or not they are sufficient. It is true that all sectors of the economy are affected by this crisis. At the same time, it is certainly true that the impact has been the most immediate for companies involved in tourism, hotels and catering. Perhaps their recovery will also be longer, which is why companies in this area are likely to need relatively more support to survive the crisis. Indeed, companies in this sector can also benefit from KredEx's general measures in addition to the specific part of the tourism sector that was in the supplementary budget. For example, the additional loan offered to Tallink can also be considered as supporting the tourism sector. But I am not prepared to express the opinion on behalf of Eesti Pank that more or less money should be foreseen in the budget for one sector or another. I would say that this is a matter of political choices and requires a little more thorough consideration.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U37	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U38	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! First of all, thank you very much for the very interesting overview and the principles put forward in response to the questions, of course also for the very comprehensive 2019 report, which is an interesting reading. I would certainly like to extend a great deal of thanks to the staff of the Museum of Eesti Pank through you, who are doing their job excellently. Feedback about visiting the museum has always been very positive, so be sure to thank and welcome them. My question is that on page 56 of its report, Eesti Pank is an advisor to the government in a number of important areas of economic policy, and you also point out that Eesti Pank was not in favour of the government's plan to make participation in the funded pension scheme voluntary and to allow the savings collected to be withdrawn from the pension fund. And now, since this is the 2019 review, you are also bringing out here that, for the government, making the second pillar optional in the long-term perspective will mean an increase in age-related expenditure. This was both 2019 when there was no sign of the crown virus. What does the same sentence mean by looking at the current situation and being unaware of how the economy will or will not actually recover in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U39	Thank you for your question. I am sure to express my thanks to the staff of the Museum of Eesti Pank. Speaking of our comments on the changes to funded pensions, the same conclusions and views are still valid regardless of the corona crisis that has struck us. If you look forward to thinking about what you should be thinking about or what you might think about us in this context, it seems to me that one of the arguments used earlier by those who advocated these changes was that the Estonian economy certainly is doing much better than the financial markets where our pension savings have been invested through pension funds, and that is why it is always more secure to contribute to Estonia. However, the current crisis has shown us that Estonia's economy is also very vulnerable, and if we look at Estonia's economic downturn, for example, it will probably not be less than the average economic downturn experienced by European or other world countries in 2020. For me, it further strengthens the argument that saving for retirement makes sense to create some kind of buffer. I think that this is a lesson for us, at national, corporate and individual level, to have a certain buffer and saving is reasonable. On the other hand, it is good to have savings that are dispersed and where risks are also dispersed, not just related to us, Estonia's welfare. This is what these pension funds offer in some ways, as pension savings have also been invested in other countries and different financial markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U40	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Very Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! This crisis has shown us how a narrow medical problem can become transversal, spread to other sectors and cause an economic problem. We don't know how it's going to go on and what's going to happen here. In Estonia, the foundation for the creation or construction of national defence is broad-based. I have the following questions for you. What is Eesti Pank's plan for peace, crisis and war? What are these basic elements? Is and how does this plan relate to national defence plans? Could an increase in the supply of gold, for example, be part of this plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U42	Thanks for the question. One thing we have really paid a great deal of attention to is that, in all circumstances, regardless of the nature of the crisis, we are prepared to offer so-called vital services, which in our definition are primarily to ensure the circulation of cash and to keep electronic payments running. This has been a priority. We do this first and foremost in cooperation with commercial banks and cash handlers, for example, another test is planned tomorrow with one large commercial bank in Estonia. As far as reserves are concerned, we have really thought about how to ensure that the foreign reserve assets of the Estonian state, which, by law, are held by Eesti Pank and which we manage, are protected as well as possible under any circumstances. However, where to invest these reserves and whether, for example, the share of gold could be greater, we have so far come to the view that, since the aim is also to increase the long-term value of reserves, instruments offering "current income," whether bonds that pay interest or low stock markets, should be preferred from which dividend income and stable value growth can be expected. Historically, we also have gold, not a very large volume of reserves, but recently we have not increased its share. So far, at least in our discussions, we have come to the conclusion that let this small buffer be in gold then, but let us think more about how to ensure that payments are working and cash circulation for all people and that we retain our reserves in principle, wherever they are invested.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U43	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Eesti Pank's "Financial policy and economy" review issued in summer 2019 found that the contribution of migrant workers to economic growth was one third. On this basis, the press has created a number of fear scenarios in which the Estonian economy cannot cope without migrant labour. President Kaljulaid argued that as much as 50% of economic growth came from migrant labour. Last week, in Postimees' article, these statements were questioned by Kristjan Järvan, who said: "In order for the logic used in Eesti Pank's analysis to apply, employment and value added changes in each area should be approximately equal. However, it is extremely difficult to calculate such a link in terms of the share of activities in which employment and value added changes are quite inverse. " How do you comment on this idea? If I look at the same table that Järvan pointed out, there really is no rigid link between these two variables.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U45	Thank you for your question. First of all, yes, in this analysis by Eesti Pank, to which you refer, we said that it was likely that the contribution of foreign workers to our economic growth during this period was up to 1/3. This was so in a situation where the Estonian labour market was very tense, in the sense that people were busy and it was difficult for entrepreneurs to find a workforce. Thus, employees from outside Estonia allowed companies to produce further, to increase their activity. Here's the logic. Since there are rules that must ensure a certain level of pay for people employed from outside, it is logical to assume that they justify this salary and lead to additional productivity. Based on this logic, the analysis of Eesti Pank was carried out. In general, however, it is reasonable to believe that more people can do more than we have more workers, whether they come from outside or not, it is likely that the volume of production will be higher. I also read the article by Postimees, which you referred to, which stated that in a short period of time these added values could be very different from sector to sector. Surely that is the case, especially in the short term, there are many fluctuations. But our analysis of foreign labour in the Estonian economy as a whole was based on such a simple logic that more people could produce companies more, and it became derived from how much of the extra production could have been filled by the labour force that had come from outside Estonia during this period. But it's not easy to calculate it exactly, of course, so we said it was up to 1/3. I guess there's some uncertainty about the accuracy of the calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U46	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress, I also thank you for this review. My question relates to asset purchase programmes. I looked from your report that last year the total volume of the asset purchase programmes was 2.7 trillion euros, already at European level. So, what's the asset purchase program really? It's actually a money print, and this money print is turned into someone's responsibility to you or your claim to someone. In essence, however, it is a printing of money. Consequently, my question too: what messages do you, as Governor of Eesti Pank, give in the discussions of the European Central Bank, that these volumes should be and should they be limited? I see you've been reinvesting lately to keep the money on the market. And, for example, in the case of countries, you buy national bonds from other markets, including those of countries that are beyond their means. Are we a little bit like a bike where you really stimulate the costs of countries themselves? What do you think of this thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U48	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the purpose of the asset purchase programmes is to channel additional money into the economy, to keep financing conditions favourable for businesses and, ultimately, indirectly, for governments. The impact of all of this is positive. In fact, we have recently not only reinvested the so-called time-out bonds, but an additional temporary asset purchase programme aimed specifically at mitigating the effects of the pandemic was launched as the crisis broke out. It was unanimously supported by the Governing Council of the European Central Bank. Everyone realised that the euro area as a whole was experiencing such a sharp fall in the crisis, and it was evident that funding conditions were also deteriorating sharply at the same time. Both corporate and government bond interest rates rose rapidly, especially in the first half of March. In the central bank's view, there was a situation where monetary policy did not work and the central bank's objective of ensuring favourable financing conditions did not reach borrowers. On this basis, these decisions were taken and the asset purchase programmes were increased. But now the question is whether there are any risks and where we can get from here in the long run. Surely it is right that the central bank must also be cautious here. Such very extensive asset purchases cannot work for a very long time. When economies are recovering, there will certainly also be discussions in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank about whether and how and how quickly to exit these programmes and recoup property purchases, because otherwise the volume of government bonds owned by the central bank, as well as the volume of other corporate bonds that we have bought up, could become too large and distort the functioning of the markets too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U49	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U50	Good manager! Good waitress! I would like to ask about many things, including KredEx's pulverized state, etc., but what is more important now is the huge plan of Merkel and Macron. Your mission is, yes, to ensure a single monetary policy for the euro area and everything else that is important, but I ask you this question: have you, as Governor of Eesti Pank, read the few thousand pages where this whole landscape opens up in its diversity, all who and how much and at what expense, and whether Estonia should significantly increase its contribution or reduce its payout and increase its carbon tax, etc. Have you read this plan, or do you have some kind of review that would be a little shorter than 2,000 pages of English text? If you have it, why don't you introduce it to us? And if you do not have it now, perhaps on 9 June, when you come to the debate in our committee, you will take it with you or you will talk about it in your speech, among other things? It seems to me that this is crucial in the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U52	Thank you for your question. This is certainly an important issue. A number of your colleagues have already asked for my opinion on this. It is easy to answer this specific question: I really have not read this several thousand pages in person. However, we have discussed with our colleagues at Eesti Pank that the general parameters of this proposal are defined and that the impact of the proposal may be studied. I agree that since you have really invited me to this debate on the budget next week, we can talk more about this. I promise to look and see if we can find any better summaries to share with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U53	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U54	Good manager! Thank you, my dear waitress, for a good, meaningful presentation and answers. My question is based on the same previous question, a little bit of 750 billion and a European loan package. How should the Member States still behave in this regard? What's your opinion? Having studied these materials, as far as I have been able, I have the impression that if the Estonian state were to borrow money itself, the loan rate would not be higher at all, but maybe the loan would come in even cheaper. Why should we even be part of the big package? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U55	In fact, for the first time in the case of a long-term bond over a very long period of time, it is the first time that the government is issuing a ten-year bond that Estonia can borrow from the bond market itself today at a high or low interest rate. This can then be compared to the conditions under which the Estonian state will take out the loan itself and under which conditions it will be possible to obtain the loan from the Commission fund. But certainly these considerations are based here on something more than just this calculation, whether we can borrow money more favourably ourselves than through this recovery fund, where in fact most come from, not as loans, but as direct subsidies to governments. Rather, the question here is how important we, as an Estonian state, consider the joint effort of Europe to come out of the crisis. By trying to consider these considerations well on the Estonian side, it is in fact in our interest that the economic recovery of other European countries is more rapid, because then Estonian companies and Estonian people will be able to work and Estonian exports will return more quickly. All these circumstances must be considered and, on the other hand, the risk that jointly borrowing money, jointly assuming responsibility for the repayment of loans, is a risk that national financial discipline may not be sufficiently strict. It should certainly be considered how to ensure that governments' motivation to maintain a responsible fiscal policy cannot suffer too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U56	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your substantive report. In your report, you mentioned that, at the beginning of the crisis or when the crisis broke out, these non-disciplined support measures justified themselves, but at the same time you said that, when they come out of the crisis, they should be better stratified, looked at areas, perhaps changed the percentage of support in this wage measure. Would you give some thought or guidance on what your vision is, how these measures should now continue and how to choose these areas or how this process could go forward, so that it is effective and also supports a certain degree of economic transformation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U58	Thank you for your question. Yes, I really pointed out in my report that if it was reasonable to implement the initial aid measures in a rather broad way, to ensure that we do not have a rapid wave of bankruptcy and that people who have lost their income very suddenly and suddenly would still receive support, then now more precise targeting is certainly more difficult and, at the same time, very important. I have already referred to some of the principles here in reply to an earlier question, for example, it would be preferable to direct borrowing from the state. This is simply because, on the one hand, it is possible to support more companies and larger amounts for the same amount of money, because then, for example, a bank will also come along as a lender and amplify the amount that the state is putting into play. On the other hand, as an observer, the lender's view and assessment of whether the company to which the loan is granted could be sustainable in the long term under market conditions. I will also talk about where to channel the money, provided that the economy really needs additional support. Here I will mention three points that I dared to make before, briefly again. It seems to me that such general support for the digitalisation of the Estonian economy and also production could be a sensible investment that pays off. We know that Estonia is at the forefront of the introduction of all kinds of digital solutions in the world, but this is not, on average, the case for Estonian companies. While we have many innovative entrepreneurs, for example, when looking at the average level of manufacturing companies, new technologies and digital solutions are used less than in many other countries, the same can be said about retraining. Since we can expect some kind of change in the structure of the economy and jobs that have disappeared, we may not recover in exactly the same companies and may not need exactly the same kind of work, it is probably reasonable to invest more in retraining people as a country and in other so-called active labour market measures to support the labour market in particular, adapting to the new circumstances. And the third aspect, especially when planning investments, is that if we have already made commitments at European level in order to achieve climate neutrality, and these require substantial investments from both private companies and the state in the coming years, large-scale projects in the plans would certainly be worth considering whether we could support these goals at the same time. Those are the three points I dare to come up with right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U59	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U60	Thank you very much, Mr. Governor of Eesti Pank, for a good presentation. The Government of the Republic has a strong tendency to take various state loans. If I remember correctly, Estonia's public debt was 8% of GDP before the pandemic. As a result of the crisis, it is now 261⁄27% of GDP, but even as such it is one of the smallest in the European Union. What is your forecast or position on how much public debt will grow or may increase if the Government of the Republic takes all kinds of state loans, of course, within the framework of GDP, and what will be its impact in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U61	I dare not even offer a specific percentage figure today as the debt burden of our government may grow in the next few years. We know that this year's budget minus can be estimated at around 10% of GDP. About half of this will automatically come from a worsening situation due to the crisis, where the country's tax revenues have been lower and, for example, expenditure on social welfare has increased. We are going to have a 5% chance of that already. In view of the additional loans that will be taken this year, it appears that there will be an additional increase of about The question now is how quickly we will be able to move back towards a more balanced budget in the coming years. It's probably gonna be really hard coming out of this deep hole right now, it's gonna take a lot of effort. The percentage of the state budget that could be negative in the next few years, I am not able to offer, but overall, the increase in the debt burden of the Estonian government will be about 10 to 15% over the next few years. Perhaps the comment is that if we look at the budget deficit for the last four years and follow the very principle of structural balance that Eesti Pank has advocated in good economic years, we should rather increase the buffer, rather than leave the budget deficit, then it can be said that if this principle had been followed over the past four years and the structural balance of the state budget, we would have accumulated 750 million euros of buffer that could now be used to survive the crisis. Since we don't have this buffer, we need to borrow more money. This is simply an example of why, at a good time, it is worth being rather conservative and keeping public spending low. The crises can come very unexpectedly, as we can see, and it is good to be as prepared as possible for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U62	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U63	Thank you very much. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! Previously, in 2019, Eesti Pank produced four economic forecasts, unlike usual. If we leave aside the part that you pointed out in the framework of the overall euro area cooperation for the assessment of the euro area economy and look at the internal market and the effects of the domestic economy in Estonia, we will see that you have brought out important things here. You have stressed, for example, the effects of short-term work, the effects of changes in the labour market. You have also assessed the effects of changes in the second pension pillar system and made recommendations. But my question to Eesti Pank is how much you feel that your work on the internal market or the domestic economy has actually benefited society. To what extent has your cooperation with the government been useful, given that the government will rather base its work on the Ministry of Finance's economic forecast?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U64	Thank you, that's a good question! Of course, we will try to do everything we can to be as good and constructive partners as possible, both in giving advice to the government and to policy makers at large, including the Riigikogu, meeting political groups and committees. However, it seems to me that the views of Eesti Pank are being heard. Of course, we cannot expect that all our recommendations will always be taken into account. The final decisions must be made by you here in the Riigikogu and also by the government, we can only be advisors. But for example, for the last year, I would say that our dialogue with members of the government has been working, as well as with experts, especially with the Ministry of Finance. We are discussing, for example, economic forecasts and, at all, assessments of the economic situation. However, it seems to me that the views of Eesti Pank also seem to give rise to a debate, which is why I generally appreciate this contribution in a positive way. I think we have heard with our advice, even if they are not always taken into account in the light of whatever political considerations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U65	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I'm gonna widen the subject. I ask that, when we look at the euro area, a single monetary policy also requires a degree of unity in fiscal policy. What is the sense of this fiscal part? What problem is caused by the deviation of some countries in the euro area from such agreed measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U67	I'm sure it's important. If we have common money, the euro and a common monetary policy, then national fiscal policies must also comply with certain rules and principles of responsibility. If your question is whether it is a problem, if that is not the case, then my view is that yes, that is the problem. Consequently, it is very important that the frameworks agreed for national budgets can be respected. I understand that it has also been discussed at European level whether the current rules need to be adjusted or clarified. This can be done, but it is certainly important that such a general, responsible and sustainable budget in the long term is maintained in all European Member States. It is worth the effort, otherwise our common currency and monetary union will be less stable in the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U68	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U69	Thank you. You stressed that money must be saved in good times for bad times. This is God's right, but there are limits here because we know that inflation and price increases will eat the national reserve. There's gotta be some kind of reasonable limit, or the money just goes to waste. But I want to ask you something else. All countries affected by this crisis have taken various forms of economic recovery measures according to their capabilities, and all of them are based on economic logic. The European Commission's plan is, in fact, all of these sums, whether it is a grant or a loan linked to certain conditions, and it has a very large part to do with various political and ideological conditions, which in fact do not follow any economic logic and which undermine the competitiveness of Europe and the euro area in the world. What do you think is economic logic, and can the Commission's plans nullify all the positive effects of this plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U70	Thank you for your question. The conditions under which governments wishing to use the money of the recovery fund must meet and how precisely these sums should be spent will continue to be discussed with both the Heads of Government and Finance Ministers as well as in the parliaments. But, in general, it seems to me that the principles of the main major directions on which the European Commission relied in its proposal were not, in principle, new. It was about how to support climate objectives, as well as the digitalisation of the economy. Of course, we can discuss whether there is something else to be done on the basis of pure economic logic or whether there is something to be condemned. In short, there may be different views. It seems to me that the overall direction of using this money to recover as well as possible from the crisis was quite understandable for this proposal. This is perhaps the most controversial side of the funding, and the fact that it is financed jointly, by issuing bonds with shared responsibility and by sharing much more responsibility between countries for other expenditures. I think that, too, certainly deserves more consideration and debate, along with the principles on which money should be spent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U71	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! My question is short, but there will be a slightly longer comment. The question itself is: does Estonia need this money to the extent and under such conditions? The areas, as you said yourself, are very broad, from the environment and social policy, this purely financial part is only a small part. I'm not a finance man, but as a cultural composer, I know that money is not just a solution, it can also be a big problem. The problem is that when money is too little, it stifles the economy, but the problem is also when there is too much money. There are different possibilities. For example, the Spanish Empire did not die because of inflation. On the contrary, the money was very well secured, but simply it was too much and there was nothing to be done with it. The second option is the United Arab Emirates. With a lot of cheap money, we buy in a lot of cheap labour, which may not be the best option for Estonia as a nation state. If we look at this from a broader perspective, we will see that the aid package for southern Europe is not only economic, but also a major part of saving or supporting the traditional way of life of southern Europeans. I don't know if that makes any sense. But let's leave southern Europe, I'm talking about Estonia...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U73	Do we really have that much money? Don't you see the economic threat here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U74	Thank you. Question time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U75	That's a really good question, thank you! Do we even need such additional large financial support for the Estonian state? I think it should be thought this way that if the money that we can get from this European recovery fund were to be used for spending or investments that the Estonian state would otherwise do with its own money, then it is simply a different source of funding for expenditure. This amount can then be more cost-effective by using Estonian tax revenues. Perhaps, at the same time, some kind of buffer could be created for the next difficult times in Estonia. But the brief answer would be that we will certainly find an application for this money in Estonia, which I have no doubt about at all. But I also agree that, if it is possible to spend a lot more money unexpectedly in a short period than under normal circumstances, we must be particularly careful that discipline does not disappear and that decisions are all reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U76	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U77	Thank you, good manager. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, My question is a little bit different. It's about the bank and culture, specifically the art. You celebrated the 100th anniversary of the bank in a spectacular way last year, and this was a very representative, very interesting and exciting exhibition at the 'Rahakunst and Eesti' Mikkeli Museum in Kadriorg. I wonder if Eesti Pank intends to complete its collection of art and thus join the ranks of other dignified banks in Europe, who have quite large collections of art that are shown in spectacular museums? How big is the art collection of Eesti Pank today? I couldn't find that kind of data in this comprehensive report, but I know you have something.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U78	Thank you for your question. Eesti Pank really has its own collection of art that is not large. It consists mainly of works on the walls of the buildings of Eesti Pank. We do not have a direct plan to make a major increase in our art collection in the near future. However, we are currently having discussions about the role of the Eesti Pank Museum: how can we, in addition to our main activity directly related to finance, explain as best as possible what we are dealing with, describe the softer side of Eesti Pank, its history. I don't know, maybe there's a way to bring this art dimension in better. We are really in the middle of this debate. We call it a renewal of our museum concept.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U79	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U80	Thank you. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Colleagues have been sceptical about their issues in relation to this new recovery package, 750 billion. I guess I understand that skepticism, too. None of us have gone through this 2,000 pages yet, or no matter how voluminous it has been. At the same time, it is clear that certain proposals are urgently needed. In this context, I ask what would be the economic policy prospects of Estonia if we were not now partners in both these recovery packages and in the European Union and the euro zone at all. What, then, would Estonia's economic policy prospects be if we were outside the European Union and the euro zone? What, then, could be the terms and conditions of the loan taken by the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U81	This is a very correct question and, in my opinion, has a broader meaning than only in the context of this specific European Commission proposal. What is really worth remembering is, for example, that during the last crisis, the Estonian state was forced to behave in a completely different way. It was not possible to borrow such a large amount of money and it was necessary to cut expenditure. That's why it was a little more difficult to recover. There were also reasons: the desire to become part of the euro area, the economic security it offers us. It is difficult to tell what loan terms would be like for the Estonian state if we were not in the euro area. I'm sure they'd be a lot more complicated. This must be borne in mind, however, that the ability to take a purely loan and the conditions under which the Estonian Government can now borrow money are certainly better because of the membership of the euro area. And from the point of view of the purely central bank, the possibility of ensuring the stability of the Estonian financial system is certainly much better at the moment if some banks are faced with major difficulties. This is largely due to the fact that we are in the euro area and therefore part of the European Central Bank system.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U82	Thank you, Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, for a meaningful presentation and for answering questions. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. We can go to the political group negotiations. Riina Sikkut on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U83	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank the Governor of Eesti Pank for a very good overview! It was a good demonstration of what we've changed over the last few months. Last year was really good. When we take stock, we can actually look back to some degree in peace of heart. But what awaits us is relatively indeterminate. And to deal with it, you have to use a lot of expertise, use a lot of knowledge. I would like to highlight two things with regard to the crisis and the possible contribution of Eesti Pank. On the one hand, I think Eesti Pank is a very good example of conservativeness. We see the importance of long historical memory, and this was also reflected in the answer given to Mr Padar's very good question. We can learn from past experiences, whether in the same way as ever, or in the opposite way. It is also clear that all decisions must be considered. It only makes sense to make changes when we know that it will be useful, that it is wise, that it will be won, whether it is a second pillar or fiscal change. Madis Müller explained in his presentation the role of Eesti Pank and the understanding of where the limits of competence go and the social expectations of the central bank of the responsibility placed on Eesti Pank. I am also not tired of stressing that the role of Eesti Pank in giving advice to the government and also to the Riigikogu is very important. Eesti Pank has specific competence. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, representatives of Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority are among the most frequent guests who provide us with valuable data and other information. But when it comes to fiscal policy decisions, which are more purely political and reflect worldview, yes, the central bank can give advice, but, as the President of the Bank said, clearly not every advice must be followed, not everything can be listened to. So on the one hand, such prudence, a balanced approach and an understanding of how decisions are made, what decisions need to be made. And now, on the other hand, this crisis experience taught us all that it really takes a lot of specific knowledge. I can think of anything about the functioning of the financial sector or the spread of the virus, but I'm not an expert. During the crisis, experts have come to the table. They can make predictions. Forecasting itself is very conservative; there are very clear rules for this. Assumptions must be recorded and there are other ideas on how to achieve results, how to interpret results and what to conclude from them and what to conclude from them. So the experience of the crisis has, I hope, been learned. Economic policy decisions are very important when it comes to exiting the crisis. It is becoming increasingly difficult to mobilise these new resources, and perhaps it is necessary to choose this issue also reflecting which instrument to use, how much we need to borrow to make the future and current spending. I really hope that Eesti Pank will continue to analyse the budget, the country's budget strategy and the crisis packages with a critical eye and, in fact, to analyse what is being proposed at European Union level. On the one hand, it is probably a very complex economic logic to understand or predict the impact of financial markets on the economies of different European Member States. That's one question. But on the other hand, what we have to discuss here is not only the economic package, but also the solidarity package or the value package. This message, too, is at EUR 750 billion. Are we an economic space? Do we have an agreement on the rules of conduct? Are all the countries coming along? So I want the strength of Eesti Pank in fulfilling its very important role and I look forward to his representatives, both in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and in this Chamber, so that we can ask questions and get them expert answers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U84	Thank you. Peeter Ernits on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U85	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I would like to say a lot of things, such as KredEx's hangover status and other things, but right now I think we should talk about something else. Naturally, on behalf of the Group, I would like to thank the Governor of Eesti Pank for his excellent presentation. Well, these reports have always been very good. But it would also be a wonder if the Governor of Eesti Pank, whose salary is over 10000 euros, would come before us with a poorer overview. Yes, Estonia's finances are in good shape, and during the corona crisis we had a good support point to put our feet on: our debt burden in the European Union is really the lowest. And even now, and even if we were to borrow very hard, we would still be a red lantern in this sense in this whole row of European Union countries. The mission of Eesti Pank is indeed a common monetary policy for the euro area and all the smaller things that concern Estonia. But our mission is a little wider. We must make sure that the Estonian state functions and is also a sovereign democratic rule of law. And now we come to the plan of Mrs Merkel and Mr Macron to save Europe. 750 billion and over 2,000 pages of text with inverted numbers! By the way, there aren't that many 2,000 pages. To remind you, the land exchange case was over 4,000 pages. But still, 2,000 pages is a lot. And as we have heard, even the Governor of Eesti Pank has not yet read everything in it. So what's 750 billion? Let me remind you, one billion is a thousand million. The European Union's new budget plan is just over one trillion, but one trillion in turn is a thousand billion. So the mysteriously large sums of money for every person, be it 500 billion plus unrefundable money and then the rest in loans. But there are no free lunches, as you know, and someone has to pay for it. Yes, together we pay, we distribute money to the south of Europe in order to maintain our lifestyle. No free lunches. And now the question is, where are the checks for paying these lunches and who will pay? We'll pay, too. Do we agree that the European Union contribution will be increased from 1% to 2%? Are we willing to reduce payments? Do we agree that Brussels will introduce some kind of new tax? Do we agree that the CO2 tax will increase twice? We have already suffocated our brown gold economy with this current rise. Well, for the plastic charge, you could agree with that, whales and seals and turtles, I think we would agree with that. But with the rest of the stuff, I don't know. That is our question here: do we agree with such free lunch bills? And basic: moving towards a federal Europe. Remember, eight years ago, the Supreme Court discussed some sections of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism how well they fit into our constitution. And then what was the decision? The Supreme Court went, if I remember correctly, eight years ago in half. But it was clearly stated that this mechanism limits our financial competence as a Riigikogu, first of all, to the principles of democratic rule of law, second point, and third point: it limits the sovereignty of the Estonian state. But this is far more important than financial stability and the joint payment for maintaining a well-trained lifestyle in southern Europe. Yesterday, in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, we received an overview of the outcome of the first quarter in Europe as a whole and of its Member States separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U86	Do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U87	Yeah, may I have a few minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U88	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U89	I will now read to you, these are yesterday's data: Estonia's average GDP declines by 0.7%, the European Union by 3.2%. But now we're taking Frau Merkel and Mr. Macron's land that came up with this plan. Mrs Merkel's state, 2.3% and Mr Macron's state, 5.4%. Here one of my fellow Members has already said that he thinks it would be more reasonable for us as a country to take these loans than we need to go into this general boiler and start paying for maintaining the existing standards of living in some countries. This does not mean that we are opposed to joint responsibility, we would like to avoid it. So actually, this is an important question. And I hope that next Tuesday the Governor of Eesti Pank, Mr Madis Müller, will be here again. I also hope that, as he promised me here and in his presentation, we will have a slightly shorter version of this review so that we can discuss not only next Tuesday but also later what it still means: whether it is a mousetrap and what this cheese is actually going to cost. That's a pretty important subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U90	Thank you. On behalf of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and the Governor of Eesti Pank! I would like to talk about two issues: first the euro zone and then the European Union. Estonia's interests are a strong European Union and a strong eurozone, a strong euro. It is not in our interest to decompose the euro zone. The Estonian kroon may have been great, we loved him and we believed in him, but unfortunately it is that most outside Estonia did not do so. In difficult times, it is very difficult to cope with a situation like this. If anyone thinks that during the previous economic crisis, Estonia could have taken a slightly favourable and cheap loan, because our loan burden was very low, they are very wrong. The borrowing and receipt of a loan and the price of the loan, or interest, are not dependent on the level of the specific loan burden. This depends on how fast the loan grows, depending on how the loan is used, in particular on what is expected of the borrower. And as much as we love our Estonia, the fact is that we are small. We are open and we need to take into account what is happening in other parts of the world and think about how we can do this. Together, together with other countries, we are always stronger. We cannot cope alone in crises; we always need neighbours and other co-thinkers, even now. And it's always easier together. But every monetary policy works well when there is also an appropriate fiscal policy. This has not always been the best in the euro area. There have been persistent problems arising from the fact that, alongside monetary policy, fiscal policies are pursued by different countries with different interests. Countries have different governments and different perceptions of world affairs. But it's more or less handled because these deviants have been lonely, even if they've been big. As a general rule, I am thinking of situations where we have not been in crisis, in the interests of Europe and the euro zone, it is in the least possible for such rules not to be respected by those who are deviant. If everyone deviates, the system's broken down. The fact is that with the governments of Jüri Ratas, we have reached the point that Estonia has also reached the deviant population or at least the border. You might think that we are a small country and we are nothing and we could do what we want, but as intelligent people in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, we could understand Estonia's possibilities. We may love our Estonia as much as we like, but there are real limits to our love. We can't really do everything about this love. We must also be responsible for our fiscal policy and other matters. And now I come to the second issue, the advisory role of Eesti Pank. The opinions of the various advisers do not always have to be taken into account. Opinions vary widely. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U92	There's going to be an extra time. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U93	But we should understand that, as a small country, we should involve all this knowledge and all the people we have. The more different opinions and views there are, the more meaningful the debate is, the easier it will be to reach the truth. You don't just have to tell the other party that you're stupid, stupid or, like, lately in politics that we have power, we do what we want, because we're smart of ourselves. Listen, talk, talk, debate, argue, try to contradict the opposite's arguments and admit that sometimes there's been a mistake. Unfortunately, this has not been done, and this process has continued to deepen. And where are we? We now realise that we are in a crisis. We have a huge deficit in the budget, which will only get bigger with the crisis, we have very badly targeted measures that are not being used. There have been repeated talks here today about KredEx measures that have gone into the forest; we also have a lot of work done to our own. Summary. Eesti Pank plays its role. If the government were to play its part now, they would consider it! That's what we want. And I actually very much hope that we will do this in this Riigikogu, rather than look at the other side's questions-suspects in a fish's eye or embarrassingly on the table surface, just because it was ordered or because the opponent is like the opposite. I think we are here to stand up for our beloved Estonia. Unfortunately, it doesn't always work out that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U94	On behalf of the Sven Sester Fatherland Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Governor of Eesti Pank for this good presentation. As has been said in this debate before, this debate over a period of time in the large Chamber of Parliament makes sense. It's a good thing it's written in the law. In this way, on the one hand, we feel what Eesti Pank and the Governor of Eesti Pank think about one or the other as a "backview," but also as an old looking forward. On the other hand, it is an opposite view: the management of the bank senses what the parties think of one direction or another. In a few words, I'm going to mark a few knots if I'm going to be more lonely than the general one. I think that the common European monetary policy, which is certainly one of the most important issues in the central banks' activities, especially those of the euro area central banks, is in itself well done. But the important issue is certainly also the issue that was in the Chamber today, and which was also touched on by a number of parliamentarians: it is a topic of asset purchase programmes that have existed over the years. I even remember from somewhere that there has been an attitude in the management of Eesti Pank over time that maybe this amount of the purchase programme should not be implemented. Let us look back: we are in a crisis now, but let us not forget that my question of 2.7 trillion has been made before the crisis. These decisions have been made before. Today we are really facing the fact that this amount of money has actually been printed up. Yes, as we understand it, money printing involves someone having responsibilities to the European central banks. Or let's just say that the national central banks are entitled to somebody. But all in all, this has led to a situation where, in essence, trillions of them have additional money on the market. Although central banks still have the right to buy different bonds on the secondary market, this ultimately stimulates countries to do certain things. Let us say, then, that if the decision-makers of the state are not conscientious or do not follow the rules laid down, to some extent these same prints of money will also stimulate national monetary policy. If you can easily obtain money from the market, even from the secondary market, this could lead to additional issuance of bonds by countries. And it's caused a problem. Not now, specifically, the asset purchase programme, but, let us say, the financial discipline of the countries has created a situation in which Estonia can safely look at everyone and say that we have the lowest debt burden, but unfortunately very many countries cannot do so. This is definitely a global problem. If some people follow the rules and others do not do so, there are essentially two options: those who follow the rules will not follow the rules at one point, because no one else will do it anymore, or those who do not follow the rules will be given a clear signal that they will no longer be able to take money from the market and will not be lent to them. I think that the activities of central banks in this area would also be a good signal. If we now go from such a general picture to our state level, I think that what Eesti Pank has to do in its nature within the domestic context is to move money, to settle, to move the financial assets at its disposal, to do very well. Things work, Estonia is stable, settlements move well. In my opinion, we do not have cash problems, we have supervision of commercial banks, and not only the environments created by the Financial Supervision Authority, but also Eesti Pank are such that we can say that we actually have a stable, good financial situation. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U96	Extra time, please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U97	And in my opinion, Eesti Pank certainly has a major role to play in this regard. I think the very important thing that you pointed out in your last report is that you are currently updating the strategy. You have outlined five points that you have in mind in the new strategy. I think that the first point you mentioned is one of the most important. You note that you want to see your greater role as an advisor to the state, the government, as well as to the general public in general. As you wrote there, you want to start talking pro-actively, not just to answer the questions. I think it is very right that the different public authorities, their departments or agencies within the national system interact with society in an advisory and inclusive manner. It'll help. I remember when the role of the tax administration changed: the former implementing and sanctioning authority also became an advisory body. Very many business organisations immediately stated how much easier it was to communicate with the tax administration when they had also become consultative about the so-called purely sanctioning institution. I think it's a good thing that you've taken on a great task of speaking along. But as you have also stated, of course, you hope that your advice will continue to be heard. Of course, I think it is crucial for decision-makers to get the best possible inputs. And when Eesti Pank is ready to do so, political decision-makers will certainly try to make the maximum possible so that the best expert opinion is on the table. So once again, I think today's debate atmosphere was very good. In the meantime, it seemed that the talk went a little overboard from Eesti Pank to the government's activities, but I reject it. Returning to the Bank of Estonia itself, I think we are on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U98	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to the Governor of Eesti Pank, the questioners and speakers. The negotiations on this issue are over and the whole issue is over. Thank you once again, everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U99	We are going to the second item on the agenda, which is why we have a draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act, which was initiated today by the Committee on the Environment, with number 109. We're gonna keep reading this second. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, for a chair as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading took place on 5 May and the second reading was suspended on the proposal of the Committee on the Environment. No amendments were received from Riigikogu members, political groups and other committees by the deadline of 19 May at 17.15. The Commission discussed the continuation of the second reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act at the meeting of 19 May, including the officials of the Ministry of the Environment, who presented the possibilities of clarifying the draft to the members of the committee. At this meeting, the Commission also decided to propose an amendment to the draft. It clarifies in the draft law the amendment to the wording of § 17 (2) of the Environmental Charges Act, which could make the text clearer or unambiguous. It adds a part of the sentence that these environmental charges shall not be applied if the substances referred to in points 1 to 4 of paragraph 1 are released into the environment within the limits of the water law or limits set under it. So just a little bit more detail. In this respect, § 341 (1) (4) of the environmental charges is added, which in this case gives the Environmental Board the right to determine the environmental fee by means of an environmental fee notice. The Committee on the Environment decided by consensus to propose the completion of the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U101	Questions. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U102	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! First of all, as a member of the Commission, I would say that the procedure for this draft has been very good and we are moving in the right direction. However, last night at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, when we had an audit of the National Audit Office, which spoke about land improvement systems, mentioned the fact that Estonian marine pollution plays a large part precisely in the feed used in agriculture. Fish farming, such as shellfish farming, would allow the sea to be cleaned. Does this draft have any effect on the quantities of feed used by farmers? Does that make any difference to their fees? Or doesn't it concern you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U103	Thank you. Specifically, this legislative amendment does not concern so-called traditional farmers. This applies only to aquaculture operators, i.e. those involved in the cultivation of fish, algae, crabs or any other aquatic or growing organism. But it is clear that at some point we must also pay more attention to agriculture. And the idea that yesterday in the Commission sounded that, in cooperation with aquaculture, we could also reduce pollution from agriculture, is absolutely worth considering. I believe that our aquaculture operators will certainly wonder how to take advantage of this. On the other hand, this means that these substances that are spoken of here will not have to be used as much as they already exist in the water.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U104	Thank you. There are no further questions for the esteemed waitress. It is now possible to open negotiations. All members of the Riigikogu may participate in the negotiations. The desire to participate in the negotiations has not been demonstrated, so there will be no negotiations. Let us examine the amendment. One amendment has been tabled on this draft, it has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and it has taken full account of it as a commission. We have completed the second reading of this bill. The commission's proposal was to finish the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U105	Let's move on to the third item. To this end, the Government of the Republic has initiated a draft law amending the Fire Safety Act and other laws with number 120. Let's start reading it first. Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior of the Speaker's Office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U106	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, it is a draft law amending fire safety law and other laws, which is due to the needs of practical life. In the meantime, certain changes have taken place in an area which requires the modernisation of the law to be corrected. So, what's going on with the upgrade? The main changes are as follows: We're setting up an obligation to install a carbon monoxide sensor. We all know that the smoke gas sensors are already mandatory, but the carbon monoxide sensor has not been mandatory so far, has been recommended. At the same time, we all know that if we can see and smell smoke, then carbon monoxide is different. It is an invisible killer and therefore the law provides that a carbon monoxide sensor should also be installed in a mandatory manner. There was a plan to enforce the law as early as 1 July this year, but in the context of an interim dramatic emergency, this plan has gone into correction and we are now hoping that the time of enforcement of the law could be 1 January 2021. Okay. We will further include the preparation of the expert assessment of the heating system and create chimney sweepers and potters to communicate with the state at the digital channel rescue information system. This means that we will increase the number of experts, but we will also change their working conditions and reporting, and we will create a register showing the objects, the newly installed heaters and other objects that have been completed in certain works. This means that monitoring them will hopefully be significantly better in the future. Further, we permit the controlled burning of the landscape in the training fields of the Defence Forces and the Defence League and the nature objects protected by RMK for the purpose of landscape protection. What does that mean? This means that, on the one hand, it is sometimes reasonable to create a fire in areas where there has been a pile of debris that may ignite for some other reason, whether because of a malicious hand or some kind of natural arsonist. And when such material spontaneously ignites, the fire under favourable conditions can be spread uncontrollable with dryness, winds can spread uncontrollable. If we burn in such dangerous places under control, this should not lead to a disaster. On the other hand, there is a purely natural aspect. This aspect relates to certain natural communities that can exist only in places where landscape fires occur from time to time. These are certain species of birds, certain species of insects, certain species of plants that need cleaning fire to cross the landscape from time to time. Without this pure fire, the natural environment will become poorer and certain living environments will be destroyed, but they will be impoverished. Next, we define fire safety services and set standards of competence for the fire safety service provider to ensure the quality and uniformity of the service. This means that we will harmonise the control standards and qualifications standards for both chimney checkers and Rescue Board officials. This means that we have a larger circle of people who are able to deal with prevention of fire safety and who, at the same time, do not invent either exaggerated demands or turn a blind eye to certain demands. All of this is regulated and harmonised. Next, we promise to refrain from automatic transmission of fire alarm alarms to the Alarm Center, if that is the coordination of the Rescue Board. That doesn't mean they're going to shut down the alarm systems. This means that in many cases alarm systems remain local or connected either to a system of security firms or to another system of signal transmission. What we see is that the Alarm Center gets thousands and thousands of dollars a year, I have to look in the papers for how many thousands of false calls that are being driven to a place where it turns out that in fact, either an insect has gone into some kind of alarm system and created a situation where it has gone to work, or there is some other reason. For example, somebody's been smoking under a smoke detector somewhere, which has not been allowed, but which has not caused the fire, but has caused an alarm at the Alarm Center. Some changes have been introduced to avoid such situations and to spend more efficiently the resources of the Rescue Board. And last: we lay down clearer requirements for fire-fighting water abstractions. It may seem a little strange that what is now with these water abstractions, but again: does nature not tolerate an empty place, everything evolves and changes. If these locations and access to locations are not guaranteed by certain standards, then there may be a situation where there is a water abstraction site somewhere, but in fact there has been a build-up, there may not be access to it or there is not enough water. These are the issues that need to be addressed. A very important point is that the Rescue Board and the local government must cooperate here and accurately map the water abstraction sites and ensure that they meet the needs, so that there is no situation where the fire department thinks that it is going to throw the hose in and get water from there, but in fact only mud can be obtained from it. These are, in short, the most important points that this draft concerns. I think I will not abuse your time or your attention and will be happy to answer questions if you have them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U107	Thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! The draft is broadly positive, with very important elements that will certainly contribute to fire safety. However, a rather serious discussion and letter of formal notice has become part of the draft provision intended to impose on owners of larger industrial and warehouse buildings, as well as on owners of office buildings and garages, instead of the current self-control self-safety report, a 'fire safety review'. This fire safety inspection must be carried out every three years, while the self-monitoring fire safety report must be submitted every year, but the important difference is that fire safety inspection can only be performed by a specialist of the Rescue Board. And there are only 90 specialists of the size of Estonia. The Chamber of Commerce has proposed that the current regime should be maintained. Do you have an analysis that points to the shortcomings of the current regime?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U109	Yeah, it's been said that this resource isn't enough. I can't tell you where this resource can be directly gained. Some efforts have been made to improve this situation by harmonising qualification requirements for potters, masons and stackers. And one point says, in my opinion, that some of the buildings that have so far been controlled are excluded from regular control, so I have to find a little where I can find it here to ease the situation. These buildings would be so-called ownership. These building types are determined, these are warehouse buildings, production buildings and garages with a surface area... let me see... Office buildings with an area of more than 750 square metres, industrial and manufacturing buildings and garages with an area of more than 1000 square metres will be inspected every three years. That way, this burden can be reduced a little. Is that answer enough? I don't dare say for sure, I'm not that big a specialist on rescue matters, but I dare say that specialists have made these changes according to practice. That's why I trust them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U110	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U111	Thank you. I have several questions about this law. The first is § 1 (6) which states that the local government may carry out a series of checks when issuing the permit for the use of buildings itself and does not have to ask the Rescue Board for coordination. Maybe if there's a garage or a shed or another building with electricity in it, but there's no fireplace, maybe it's okay, but a house? Do you think that there are such specialists in the local government that they accept responsibility that the building is built according to fire safety standards and that there may be some very serious accidents in the residential building? Who's in charge later? Does the local government have this competence?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U112	Yeah, well, that's a question you can ask, but again, this provision is still based on the same practice. In practice, the Rescue Board spends much of its time on bureaucratic co-ordination, which in practice does not have a comprehensive knowledge of the subject. Coming up and looking at projects superficially, reviewing projects, giving coordination. That's a huge amount of human and working time resources in the Rescue Board. Clearly, it makes sense to share this workload. This does not preclude that, if the initial inspection and coordination is carried out by local government officials, the Rescue Board may not be contacted on certain matters. The Rescue Board can still come in and give its detailed assessment. This, of course, does not rule out such a thing. But simply in order to reduce the bureaucratic and often very formal burden, this change has been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U113	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U114	Thank you. I will continue with Mr Tough question. No doubt we all know that coordination with the Rescue Board is generally a procedure that may seem burdensome, annoying to certain persons, etc., but its aim is to prevent fires, to reduce both human and economic damage. After all, we have seen the effectiveness of this work: Estonia has improved year by year precisely because we have a professional management of fire safety. You want to give the local government the right to coordinate these projects, and so that the building permits can be processed more quickly, I will read it in the explanatory memorandum. This is certainly also a worthy objective, although I do not think it outweighs the objective of protecting human lives. What competence requirements do you think these local government personnel should meet in order to be equally capable of protecting human lives in terms of fire safety?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U115	In principle, they must meet the same standards of competence as the employees of the Rescue Board. Otherwise, they will not be able to hold this office, otherwise they will not be able to give such coordination. But I will also specify the answer to Mr Kalvi's Tough question. I'm gonna take a look at these memo points. The absolute majority of the local authorities' coordination that needs to be carried out on the territory of local governments are co-ordinations that accompany summer homes, garden houses and ancillary buildings. These are not predominantly residential buildings. In this sense, I fully understand that it is reasonable to hand these simple things over to the local government. Indeed, in the case of private homes where people will be living, the requirements are certainly considerably higher, but here is where the design documentation comes into play and verification that the building really corresponds to what is written in the design documentation. My experience in communicating with local authorities is that they are competent to control such matters. I cannot speak for all the relevant officials of the local authorities of Estonia, of course, but my experience tells me that they have this competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U116	Toomas Kivimägi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue my first question. I come again to the mandatory nature of the fire safety inspection. It's a new term, a new term. In the case of these larger industrial and warehouse buildings, this is necessary and you rightly stated that its frequency is less than that of the current self-control report on fire safety. The fire safety inspection shall be carried out every three years. However, the important difference between being opposed by entrepreneurs is that only an officer of the Rescue Board can carry out a fire safety review. The currently required report can be made by the company itself. There is also a significant difference in that there is now an additional cost for the owner. And the entrepreneurs have come up with the idea that the current annual self-control self-safety report could still remain. If there are more infringements in any company, the Rescue Board can oblige the owner to order this fire safety inspection. But it would be mandatory for companies that have not properly submitted fire safety reports for self-control.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U118	Yeah, well, this thing is basically two-tiered. One side is that for a number of objects, this inspection can be carried out "self-checked" and a report can be completed on the basis of the corresponding format. However, a proper survey every three years is already a very competent person: as I read here, at least a level 5 certificate holder of a fire safety specialist who can propose measures to remedy the finding. So that's what's necessary. We know that from time to time, we're all people, we're all doing what's easier. Sometimes they pull some new wires somewhere out of a branch box and just attach them to the wall in bulk. And there are other things that are not in line with the original project. Well, life is life, life wants to live, and work needs to be done. But that is why it is very important that such surveys take place from time to time. And, in my opinion, however, we are greatly simplifying the reporting obligations of businesses. We're going to make it virtually virtual anyway. And every once in a while, they'd do this kind of real check. There could be some kind of, uh, I don't know, accident, somewhere water runs into wires, there's some kind of short circuit. Some things will be turned off, then somebody will change, a new one will come on, they will turn on, there will be shortcuts. That's why we can't really leave control. Such regular, but not very burdensome, and to a large extent self-confident control is, in my opinion, quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U119	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U120	Thank you! Mr. Minister! My question is about making carbon monoxide sensors mandatory, especially in private homes or private spaces. It was mentioned in the Commission, but how many people are affected? And do you have any information on whether Estonia has sufficient production capacity to do so? Do we have the power to produce these sensors for people with special needs? And how much do they cost? What's the amount of money people have to pay? I remember when I bought my mom a carbon monoxide sensor a year and a half ago, it cost me 45 or 47 euros. It's a little expensive for some people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U121	I can tell you, the cost of the carbon monoxide sensor is between EUR 20 and 60, the price depends on the life of the components of the sensor, which is 5 to 10 years, and on the additional functions (LED display, compatibility with smartphone, etc.). So, yes, I imagine that for a pensioner who has an income of some 350 euros per month, this EUR 40 is quite a considerable departure. Absolutely understandable! But that's why the Rescue Board is constantly working on prevention and is also doing its own installation, especially for the so-called risk groups. At the same time, we also see that the behaviour of at-risk groups is very irresponsible. There are re-installations in apartments and houses where they are simply turned off, taken out of batteries or no batteries are replaced. It's such a constant struggle. How many people does that involve exactly? I don't have that number right here. It has been said that this concerns a large number of people, but I do not have this number here. There is also one such technical moment that the carbon monoxide sensor is mandatory in housing with a gas installation connected to the chimney. We have had several accidents in Estonia where people have died in a gas-fired building. They really can't smell or see the gas. But it's a big project. It is a large project and has been taken into account for several years. One thing is to make information, to make carbon monoxide sensors available, to distribute and install them, and to control them. It's actually a very big job. And in answer to some of the previous questions: this is also one of the reasons why we need to look around creatively. It is necessary to free as many workers as possible from certain routines, bureaucratic obligations, so that they can do the work that actually saves lives, and this through prevention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U122	Kalvi Tough, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U123	Thanks! Good minister! The second question I have is the controlled burning of the landscape. Thank God we've got control of the spring burn in Estonia. There must be no controlled burn at all, but now we will allow the Defence Forces to arrange them. My question is about the coordination circle. Both the Estonian Association of Municipalities and Cities and the Estonian Association of Insurance Associations are listed here and who were there, but there are no Estonian nature keepers who would have been consulted during the coordination round. If, figuratively speaking, during a felling peace, when it is the sweetest time to perform a controlled burn, it is carried out, but the birds and animals are nesting there, how true is it? Maybe there's another way to clean up this territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U124	Well, I can't quite tell you if it's during bird-peace. Somehow, I think sometimes a better time is chosen. I really don't know what the calendar plan for these burns is. But if you're interested in this, I'd be happy to ask the Rescue Board to clarify and send a letter to the MPs. [[Someone's asking for something in the hall.]] I didn't hear you. I have a memo here, by the way, to say where these natural places are, where this controlled landscape burning is considered necessary in particular: the only large Estonian heaths in Northern Kõrvemaa and in the landscape conservation area of Läänemaa Suursoo. And only there will it be authorized. However, I think that it also takes into account nesting times and other such things. It would be very brutal not to count.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U125	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U126	Thank you. One side of the hard question was why it has not been coordinated with conservation organisations. After all, you mentioned the landscape protected areas where this controlled burning will take place. However, my second question concerns the same earlier issue, i.e. the waiver of the authorisation procedure of the Rescue Board for certain buildings. You told me in response that these local government people should have basically the same competence as the corresponding specialists in the Rescue Board. I will read this bill one way or the other, as well as the explanatory statement. Now I've come to the very end, but I don't think there are any requirements for the organisation of the local government's fire safety work. This is not a minor matter. This is actually about people's lives, and also about responsibility, when this work is done in a poor way. Could you show me to the right place?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U127	My memo says that such permits can only be issued by officials with the relevant authority of the local government. This means that since these permits will be issued by persons who have received the approval and approval from the Rescue Board, the Rescue Board will clearly exercise control over the competences of these people in the course of its work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U128	Thank you, Honorable Minister. No further questions for you. Now, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I would like to ask for a presentation by the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Toomas Kivimägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U129	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 18 May. In addition to the members and officials of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mart Helme, the Minister of the Interior, Viola Murd, Deputy Secretary-General for Salvation, Emergency Aid and Crisis Management, Kadi Parmas, Legal Adviser to the Rescue and Crisis Management Policy Department, and Mari Tikan, Adviser. First of all, Mart Helme gave an overview of the draft, but since in this Chamber his review was even more comprehensive than in the Commission, I am not going to repeat what Mart Helme was talking about at the committee meeting. It coincided with what he was talking about here. In the circle of questions, Jaanus Karilaid was interested in what would then be the positive effect of these carbon monoxide sensors. Viola Murd replied, just as the minister in this hall confirmed that the smoke detector, which was mandatory for almost ten years, did not detect whining. The carbon monoxide sensor has actually been mandatory for several good years in residential buildings with gas heating. If you remember, a few years ago, we had quite a tragic accident. Thus, the carbon monoxide sensor is already mandatory, but not in solid fuel-fired dwellings. In fact, the number of households affected is in the order of 200000. That's a huge amount. Now, it is also very important to emphasise that there is still a sufficient transitional period here. The protocol of the Committee on Legal Affairs has little inaccuracies, however, I do not rule out that it was actually dealt with in such a wording session, and that the mandatory nature of the carbon monoxide sensor will apply on 1 January 2022. The protocol states 1 January 2020, which cannot be immediately, but perhaps meant 1 January 2021. In fact, the draft law states that this obligation will enter into force on 1 January 2022. The second issue that Mari Tikan addressed at the Legal Affairs Committee was the same mandate given to local authorities to coordinate on behalf of the Rescue Board. This is quite a fundamental change, which will certainly speed up the process of processing construction permits and permits. From the customer's side, I'm sure it's operational and reasonable. But indeed, to be very precise, I note that it does not only concern garden houses. If you read the text of the Act, it states that the local government unit may grant the construction or permit provided for in the Building Code to a single house, a cottage, a garden house or an auxiliary building necessary for the servicing of the dwelling without the approval of the Rescue Board. In fact, it also covers all residential buildings, absolutely all residential buildings, not just auxiliary buildings. But what is important: it is actually an opportunity, the local government is not obliged to do so, it does not have to do so if it is not ready or it does not want to do so. In this case, the current arrangements shall apply. Indeed, it is a topic of discussion between two readings, whether a local government official needs any specific training or training for this work. This is not evident in the draft material. I found a place somewhere where this coordination can be given by a construction advisor. But whether a person who works as a construction advisor is required to be competent to coordinate on behalf of the Rescue Board, that is the subject of discussion. It must be assessed whether any further training is needed for this purpose or whether the construction advisor already has such competence and competence. I think it should definitely be appreciated. At the Commission meeting, for example, Kert Kingo admitted that coordination is a huge additional burden for the Rescue Board, and if we hand it over to the municipalities, people can try to take advantage of familiar local government officials and get permits more easily. His suggestion was that first-time coordination, I suppose Mrs. Kingo had in mind the phase of the building permit, could be granted by the local authority, but once the building has been completed, the final review could still remain under the Rescue Board. Maybe I'll assume that in the case of a permit, the rescue officer will coordinate. Similarly, it was worried about giving the local government this mandate to Tarmo Kruusimäe, who said that during the previous construction crisis construction permits were lightly granted, resulting in many fires. It was his kind of statement. I think it's really worth considering. On the one hand, it is perfectly rational in the case of some smaller auxiliary buildings and perhaps also in the case of a summer house. Perhaps some local governments have the authority to give these coordinations on behalf of the Rescue Board. And the draft materials also show that, at the beginning, the Rescue Board is prepared to participate in this coordination process. In the course of their cooperation, they will assess whether this work is correct or not, and this will give rise to a certain experience. And if a local government official already has a certain experience, then he can do this work independently from now on. This, however, should really be assessed as to whether this right must be absolute and also apply to all dwellings. Secondly, it should be assessed whether it requires any additional training or competence, or any indication on the civil certificate of the construction adviser, or whether it is sufficient that he is simply a construction advisor. That, too, should actually be appreciated. And really, can the local government, either on behalf of the Rescue Board or on behalf of the permit, grant coordination only at the stage of granting the building permit? In the principle, I think it is possible to reduce the workload of the Rescue Board somewhat. And as a result of the administrative reform, the capacity of municipalities has actually increased. I think that there is such a capacity in larger municipalities, or at least they are able to acquire its competence very quickly. I'm pretty sure of it. And the other way around, it's still an opportunity, not an obligation. If this were an obligation for the municipalities, there would also be an immediate question of reimbursement. It's an extra workload. By the way, that is also the point of this draft. It is voluntary, but rescue officers are able to escape this duty somewhat and this burden falls on the municipal official. But since it's voluntary, it doesn't necessarily have to be like this. When discussing the issue of smoke detectors, Tarmo Kruusimäe was also concerned about why the dangers of smoking in bed have not been explained much and prevention has been done. According to him, nearly half the people died in 2018 because they smoked in bed. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister said that 43 people died in the fire in 2019 and nearly half of them had smoked in bed or left the fire unattended when they were drunk. Viola Murd added that it is actually such an interesting fact that the proportion of drunken men who smoke in bed decreases year after year. And the even more peculiar nuance is that the future, according to Viola Murdi, will be a bigger problem for the older, alone women who may get whiny poisoning. Therefore, the mandatory nature of the carbon monoxide sensor is highly justified. I suppose it has something to do with women still living a little longer than men and the average life expectancy of the population increasing. There is also one topic that did not really come up with this committee session, but which I asked the Minister about twice today. I am still adding this nuance to the fact that, between two readings, if colleagues want to propose amendments, this could be considered. Indeed, the vast majority of the comments made on this draft have been reflected through clarifications, but indeed the Chamber of Commerce has sent a letter of formal notice where it has nevertheless proposed to maintain the current regime. This concerns larger office, warehouse and industrial buildings, if I am not mistaken, from a thousand square meters. At present, they have a duty to carry out a self-control fire safety report. They have to do this every year and send it to the Rescue Board. They can do it on their own, they probably have a specialist on their own who's gonna make that report and send it to the Rescue Board. Now the owners of these major industrial and warehouse buildings, as well as the owners of office buildings and garages, are seeking to impose an obligation to carry out a fire safety inspection. It's a whole new thing for them. Yes, this fire safety inspection must be carried out once every three years, not every year, but the important difference is that they cannot carry out the fire safety inspection themselves, that can be done by the Rescue Board officials holding a level 5 or 6 certificate of competency. I think there are officials with a level 5 certificate of competency about 65 and rescue officers with a level 6 certificate of competency 22 all over Estonia. In total, 87-88 officials with competence to carry out a fire safety inspection. The Chamber of Commerce has found that the current regime could be maintained. One compromise proposal, which I also pointed out in my question, was to maintain the current regime, but those companies that ignore the requirements of the sequel, who have persistent deficiencies, should carry out a fire safety review under the orders of the Rescue Board. So this new obligation, which has been introduced here, would not extend to everyone, but to those with whom the Rescue Board has more problems. In my opinion, this is a worth considering proposal, all the more so since businesses have raised this problem. They still see the additional cost and burden of this change and also see the rise in their prices, even because these specialists are relatively few: as I said, less than 90. They themselves have not considered this amendment to be justified. Of course, a very important analysis would be whether the current self-control fire safety reports have been sufficient, or whether there are very many deficiencies, including major shortcomings, which have led to tragic fires or whatever. If so, the amendment would be understandable and understandable. This background needs to be known, so we can see if we should do some more stringent arrangements. Of course, no one doubts that the Rescue Board official is more competent to carry out this verification, but the question is whether the change is rational and reasonable. This still creates additional burdens and burdens for businesses. This is one topic that should also be discussed between two readings. In conclusion, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda for today, i.e. by 2 June, secondly, to propose the completion of the first reading and, thirdly, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 17 June. The waitress was appointed the same person who is standing before you now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-02_U130	Thank you. Now we have such a story that the sitting is almost over. No one has proposed an extension, so this matter will continue to be dealt with tomorrow at the beginning of the agenda. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 12.58 p.m.
