ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 17th working week on Thursday. I'm ready to accept drafts and inquiries. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission decided on 9 June to initiate a draft amendment to the Local Government Organisation Act. The draft is linked to the fact that people employed in the city's administration must leave the council, which means that their mandate ends. If the draft comes into force in its current form, their mandate will be suspended by the time they work in the municipal or municipal authorities. The bill doesn't concern the officials, they're gonna keep everything as it is now. But the reason why the Commission started discussing this was because the Chancellor of Justice turned to the Supreme Court for a position, because the Chancellor of Justice felt that it was not fair that the mandate of people working with an employment contract ended. The Supreme Court decided that the current situation is really wrong and needs to be changed, and acknowledged that certain paragraphs no longer apply, but provided a period of six months to allow the Riigikogu to regulate these points. The Commission also discussed that maybe to do this together and regulate it also for officials, although there is no such decision at the moment, the Riigikogu must discuss it. I also believe that the Riigikogu must discuss what happens to the leaders of these authorities, as their powers do not stop or end now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U3	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I submit a draft law amending the Income Tax Act to the proceedings. What's the point? On 15 April, when we adopted the Act amending the laws relating to the State's additional budget for 2020, we also introduced an advantage for private forest owners, a tax deduction of up to EUR 5 000, for self-employed private forest owners as well as private forest owners. At the same time, all this logic of income tax exemption has been applied through the ages in such a way that these [favourites] have become, in parallel, both private forest owners and self-employed farmers, farmers. For farmers, what has been for some twenty years now remained the rate of 40,000 Estonian kroons, which is now 2870 euros. It is quite possible that this issue was simply overlooked in some way that self-employed and natural persons in agriculture were excluded. We are simply trying to eliminate this mismatch now so that self-employed workers in agriculture can also deduct EUR 5 000 from their income. We have also taken into account that the draft law allows this to be done retroactively from 1 January 2020, as is possible for private forest owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U5	Thank you very much. I have adopted two drafts on behalf of the Bureau. They shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, presence control, please! 71 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, missing 30.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U6	We can start with today's item on the agenda. There is only one item on today's agenda, which is the debate on 'Estonia's Human Development Report 2019/2020' as a key national issue initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'll give you information on how we handle this. First of all, there is a presentation from the editor-in-chief of the 'Estonian Human Development Report 2019/2020', the Vice-Rector for Sustainable Development of Tallinn University, Professor of Environmental Management and Senior Researcher of Cultural Geography Helen Sooväli-Sepping. There are up to 20 minutes for the presentation, up to 40 minutes for questions and answers, so the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has requested this time. Secondly, the editor of the "Estonian Dialogue Room" chapter of the 'Estonian Human Development Report 2019/2020' is Indrek Ibrus, Head of the Media Innovation and Digital Culture Centre of the Baltic Film, Media, Arts and Communication Institute of Tallinn University, up to 15 minutes for questions and answers up to 20 minutes. Then Lauri Läänemets, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will give a presentation for up to 10 minutes, with questions and answers for up to 10 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask any rapporteur a question. This will be followed by negotiations where everyone can participate, but at the request of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I will first give the floor to the representatives of the political groups if necessary. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also proposed that the speaking time should be fixed until the end of the sitting, if necessary by extending the negotiations until 14 p.m. But it will be put to the vote by the Bureau when that time comes closer. So let us begin the debate on this issue. I ask the editor-in-chief of the 'Estonian Human Development Report 2019/2020', Vice-Rector for Sustainable Development of Tallinn University, Professor of Environmental Management and Senior Researcher of Cultural Geography Helen Sooväli-Sepping. Please, the remote is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U7	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! The main topic of the 'Estonia's Human Development Report 2019/2020' is Estonia's spatial development and its impact on the well-being and social processes of Estonian people. The report deals broadly with the space by analysing Estonia's settlement, natural areas, urban space and the room for discussion that unites us. 'Ruum' as the umbrella term of this report represents a common space of public interest and social benefit. The human development index is the subject of the Human Development Report. Estonia has made progress in human development to its 30th position among the countries of the world and has remained there. According to the Human Development Index introduced by the United Nations Development Programme since 1990, Estonia is among the countries with very high levels of human development. Estonia is 30th with an index of 0.882 and has remained in this dignified position for the last six years. The index takes into account life expectancy, average years of school attendance and comparable prices of GDP per capita. The residents of Estonia live [on average] 78.6 years, which is three years less than the average life expectancy in the European Union. According to Statistics Estonia, life expectancy is longer in urban areas, Estonian nationalities and higher educated populations. Education continues to be honorable and very important. Only Switzerland, the United States and Canada have a longer education path than the Estonian population. The welfare growth of the Estonian population has been remarkable, as illustrated by the rapid increase in the order of the human development index. It has introduced the slogan 'Estonia has never done as well as today'. Let's ask here how well we live. The increase in Estonia's well-being has not become part of all population groups and all regions. We could look at it as if the chain was just as strong as its weakest link. In other words, the Estonian population is both the wealthy and the most vulnerablely insured social groups. According to Statistics Estonia, in 2019 31,400 Estonians lived in relative poverty, 21.7% and 2.4% respectively. This means that nearly a quarter of the population lives in poverty. The figures show that regional social stratification is deepening at national level. At this point, it is quite appropriate to ask what the spatial developments in Estonia have been in the first decades of this century. The first trend that we have described in the Estonian Human Development Report is that of metropolitan Estonia. The whole world is agglomerating, forming a highly intertwined global market economy network. Urbanisation in Estonian terms is a manifestation of the expansion of urban areas and the growth of urban populations mainly in Tallinn. People, economics and services are concentrated in Tallinn and around Tallinn. Currently, 920000 people live in the urban environment, or 69% of the Estonian population, of whom 40%, or 550000, live in or around Tallinn. In this century, 55,000 people have moved to the suburbs of Tallinn, making the population of Pärnu and Kuressaare. Between 2000 and 2017, the area of settlement areas in Estonia, mainly in rural municipalities near Tallinn, has increased by 138 square kilometres. In this way, we can compare that nine towns of the size of Viljandi have been constructed in Estonia in these years, but in reality no new cities have come to the map or administratively. In many ways, the growth of Greater Tallinn has been unplanned in recent decades. This has meant large-scale real estate development and expanding traffic infrastructure. Infrastructure investments are primarily directed at roads, less pedestrian and bicycle roads, city squares or parks. In Tallinn, parking lots and roads take twice as much gross space as roads for pedestrians. The urban environment, which respects the principles of sustainable development and provides a good quality of life, is characterised by the fact that it is good for both 8 and 80-year-olds and that green areas, public transport and light traffic routes are designed in accordance with this principle. The growth of Estonia's major cities, but especially Tallinn, is often based on the quality and greenness of public space that is important for people's mental and physical well-being. Recreational forests near the city have been replaced by suburban districts. The quality of life of the urban population, as well as the international competitiveness of cities, are directly linked to the quality of urban space and the quality of the urban natural areas. As the current health crisis has shown, the existence of green areas in urban conditions and the improvement of the quality of urban space are essential for the health of the people of the capital city. The second half of the metropolitan coin is the shrinking of Estonian counties. All counties except Harjumaa are shrinking. Between 2000 and 2018, 10% of the population was added to Harju County, while the population of Tartu County, for example, decreased by 4%. In other counties, the population decreased by a tenth to a quarter. Decreasing is the reverse process of metropolitanisation. This region is declining, with a significant population decline in one generation. The issue of shrinking is not just about labour migration and the search for more income. The surplus and ageing of the housing fund, both in terms of living conditions and construction engineering, have made many Estonian families permanent, as their home's market price is low. At the same time, young families in counties usually lack the opportunity to start living in a new home or in a renovated experience, in other words in a new home. Inequalities in living conditions and real estate prices, rare public transport leading to underage and retirement poverty, as well as the thinning of public and private services, exacerbates the overall regional disparities in Estonia. This is a deadlock that can only be interrupted by the immigration of younger people into rural areas. The poor quality of life in remote areas cannot infinitely be compensated by family happiness or natural values, communityhood or home love. Today, a large number of people in rural areas, cities and settlements are faced with concerns about how services such as medical care and school can be provided to keep life and the living environment functioning. The weakening of the county level and county towns has accelerated the trend towards two centres in Estonia, consisting of Tallinn and Tartu, covering their rear parts within an hour's drive radius. The place of work moves to Tallinn and Tartu in the front, the place of residence and services are coming for you. This kind of process is mitigated by the diversity of Estonians. Numerous residents have two homes: one in the city and one in the rural area, to which they drive for weekends and summer holidays. They are accompanied by multinational families who live across the border and go on holiday in Estonia. Studies show that at the end of the 2000s, about 5% of the Estonian population changed their place of residence over the course of the year. Good Riigikogu! The key to sustainable decline has so far not been provided by spatial restructuring in public administration, nor by administrative reform. The European Union's programmes and projects that promote entrepreneurship and boost rural areas have had a modest impact, as they have reached only the urban areas of Tallinn and Tartu to a large extent. Regional policy focused on competitiveness has supported Estonia becoming more competitive in Europe through two urban areas. At the same time, the areas of activity of the rest of Estonia have been overlooked and therefore the process of peripheralization has not slowed down. Good listeners! Estonian civil society spokespersons have stood up for promoting a culture of debate and involvement. However, active citizenship in Estonia is low, for example more than several decades behind Finland or Sweden. In independent Estonia, spatial planning practices and practices have become more open and democratic. This is anchoring people's perception that inclusion is part of creating and shaping a quality living environment. However, the attitude of the majority of Estonians towards inclusion is rather passive and pessimism. The reason is the lack of feedback and the inclusion of formal attitudes. This, in turn, undermines the meaning and credibility of inclusion and leads to fatigue. Stakeholders in charge of public spaces actively seek dialogue partners from the public or private sector and encourage the development of civil society and a more democratic culture of involvement. The barrier of the specialized language between planners, designers and citizens makes it difficult to find consensus, the common sense of Estonian languages. Technically detailed descriptions and drawings presented for public consultation in the depths of the Internet do not leave ordinary people the opportunity to contribute to the development of their region. This has led to development and spatial change in denial, non-my-backyard attitude. A balanced, collaborative discussion space is a prerequisite for the cooperation and association of different groups in society. Dear Riigikogu! The circle of topics on which I would like to dwell is how the heritage of construction and natural areas as part of culture strengthens the environmental relationship of Estonian people and the sense of home. Material and physical space is an integral part of the cultural space as a way of self-description of the nation. The living environment with its historical buildings, urban and village structures, settlement structures and land use today carries stratifications at various stages of history. The Estonian landscape is a means of creating a collective memory and identity, just as there are basic texts of literature in Estonian, films, songs or dances. In addition to the construction of new buildings, it is important to give more systematic priority to the re-use of the building heritage. There are several advantages in valuing cultural heritage. It will benefit the entire region, not just a specific area. The active introduction of cultural heritage as signposts and public buildings makes small towns and rural territories as a whole more attractive to both residents and visitors to the region. Construction heritage strengthens the sense of home and connects people to the place. The urbanisation process of recent decades has also had an impact on Estonian cultural creation. Both construction heritage and natural areas carry a sense of place and an environmental feeling. The poor situation of the construction heritage and the loss of Estonian natural sites and biodiversity indicate disruptions in the value system of Estonian society. Estonian culture and nature are not kept in museums and national parks. It is in these circumstances that we have conflicts in spatial planning and nature use. The heritage of construction and the biodiversity of Estonian nature is the national identity of Estonia. Finally, on the basis of the conclusions of the Estonian Human Development Report, I propose three proposals. First of all, Estonia is facing a site-based plan for smart shrinking in three areas: jobs, housing and basic services. This requires planning and solving the development of Estonian regions in two basically different keys: market economy principles in the key to growth and competition and sustainable decline on the principle of justice. Estonia needs two administrative models, one for metropolitanisation, the other for shrinking. In urbanisation, this means more courageous intervention in the market, while in shrinking, adaptation to a smaller, thinner, more fragile population that cannot be measured with efficiency. Secondly, the major cities of Estonia need a urban policy that is based on the city's regions and not on the city's borders. The common urban policy brings together public transport and light traffic networks, allowing citizens, especially car dependent groups, such as children and older people, to move independently. A common urban-regional policy based on cooperation between cities, municipalities and citizens will improve people's living environment, bring together public spaces and improve people's quality of life. Society is becoming more coherent and it is the interest of Estonian society as a whole. This is democracy. Thirdly, a well-balanced, collaborative discussion space is a prerequisite for the cooperation and association of different groups in society. Developing the skills needed for discussion is of national interest. Civil literacy and debate skills need to be improved in order to empower citizens and promote broad-based democracy. Digital platforms, competent officials and reliable experts in the development process offer opportunities for doing so. Media education programmes have already proven themselves in general education schools; they could also be offered to the wider population to improve the quality of the debate. Estonia has been an undervalued resource in terms of location, spatial and territoriality so far. The way we use and maintain our land is up to us, good Riigikogu. 'Wouldn't the baddest hand be the brother of the right hand / Though they do different things, / Though they don't say hello to each other. They're holding on to one, love you, aren't they? " Those are Hando Runnel's words. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U8	Thank you very much, dear waitress Professor Sooväli-Sepping. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! These human development reports often point to important trends in society. I remember when Tiit Tammaru, editor-in-chief of the Human Development Report 2016/2017, described educational and linguistic segregation here, which has led in Estonia to the fact that the capital of Estonia, or Tallinn, is one of Europe's fastest-segregating cities and capital cities, and this is because linguistically education is being separated by the capital authorities and the state. But you're talking about the room, and you're also pointing out some pretty interesting trends about the relationship between public transport and caring in big cities and around cities. I would rather ask if you can make good recommendations, which could be a formula in Estonia, looking towards the capital, and perhaps also looking from the world, to offer solutions to the spatial problems of the fastest-segregating capital.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U10	Thank you. First of all, the creation of infrastructure will certainly help to prevent segregation, so that people are not car-related, which in turn means that those who do not have a car cannot move to the part of the city where they want to live, for example. In order to reduce or prevent segregation, it is essential to plan housing where property prices are not uniformly high, but also have cheaper apartments, or even cheaper apartment buildings in more expensive areas. This is also one of the measures used in other countries, as well as the rental market, where prices are still very high in Tallinn, for example in the city centre, where it is not possible for anyone other than the middle class to enter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U11	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If I am not mistaken, there is such a global forecast that by 2050 or 2060 70% of the world's population will live in million cities. My question is whether it is possible for Estonia to resist this great trend, knowing even that (there is no problem in Estonia) that in many of these cities, which will develop by the middle of the century, there will be a problem of fresh water, etc. Is it possible to ignore this global trend? There is another question. Moving away from the cities is a kind of privilege. Isn't that right? Would you mind commenting on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U13	Thank you. How can we prevent continued urbanisation? It is, as you pointed out, a global challenge. In the case of Estonia, you should look at Estonia's territory together. This means that we have the opportunity to keep smaller centres so that people do not have to move to the metropolitan area. This means keeping services in smaller places. People still move towards well-being, where there are jobs, but they stay where there are good services. For example, if we had a good, functional public transport network within Estonia, it would be possible to work in county centres or even further away. Today, this public transport network is not working. If a person has to drive a car for two hours to work in Tallinn, for example, he will eventually move to Tallinn. So one of these keys is the public transport network and other services that are guaranteed for people, so they have a sense of security living on the ground and they know that the school will last for the next ten or twenty years. The same is true of medical care. These are three basic services: transport, school, medical care. Secondly, the question was whether living in the countryside was a privilege. Yes, living in the countryside and also having two homes is a privilege. As a rule, it is a privilege for people with higher incomes who have a car or two cars and who can afford two homes. The country, of course, also has privileges, such as quality of life, which does not exist in the city. This is also one of the reasons for moving out of town. These are also trends that we see in other parts of the world that people are moving out of town because of air pollution, noise and too dense a living environment. So, of course, if we value it as a privilege, if it is part of our value space, then people are moving away from the city to the country now. But it's a marginal part of people, and once again, it's a so-called middle class privilege.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U14	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U15	Thank you. Thank you, good waitress, for a very interesting and exciting presentation! I have one question about the beginning of the report and one question about the end of the report. In the quarter century, we have reached the 30th position in the Human Development Report among the countries of the world. The question is, should we be satisfied with this? If so, why, and if we are not satisfied, what should we do to move on from there? The second question is about the end of the presentation. You mentioned that in addition to urbanisation, the second option is the smart shrinking of the site. I would put it the other way around: the smart growth on the spot. The question can be posed, for example, by how many minutes is the acceptable time it takes for a person to get home from work or home to work or school, how we look at this room. I think this space-time is very important. How do you see it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U16	Thank you for your question. If you don't mind, I'll start with the second question, because I'll forget. It's kind of an exciting, a little philosophical question. As we say in the introduction to the report, time and space have increased. We feel time shorter today, and in terms of public transport and mobility at all, our movement is faster than it was 20 years ago, either by public transport or by car. I don't have that answer, which is a good time for a child to go to school. The question is, can he go there himself? This is about a human-friendly room. I believe that a small child can ride an average of six kilometers on a bicycle. This is what children do in the Netherlands, for example, they travel six kilometers by bicycle to school. The LRT network is important in this respect. As I emphasised, the fragile groups of society, such as the elderly and children, should be able to move themselves. Today we have children car-related and this is part of the problems why our children are overweight and why diabetes is in a rapidly rising trend. It's not the only problem, but it's one of those components. The second question was the Human Development Index. We've been on 30 for the last six years. Is that good or bad? Personally, I think stability is also good. 30th place for a small country like us is very dignified. The Czech Republic and Slovenia are ahead of us from the Eastern European countries. We are faced with other countries that are very rich, and when we look at the economies of these countries, they are not comparable to our economies. So here is the question of GDP, on the one hand, and on the other hand, about what we can improve in this competition, is the average life expectancy of the Estonian people, which has not increased in recent years. The potential is to care for the health of our people. Three years, as I mentioned, the average life expectancy has been shorter than the average life expectancy in Europe. That's quite a lot, and men are even shorter. I think that's the main component. We go to school for a long time, but health is one of those components. The same way that has been pointed out: inequality, stratification that we have in Estonia. The weakest link in the chain should catch up a little bit. But, as has been said, we have very rich countries before us, so whether this is a separate strategic objective, it is a question of its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U17	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U18	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Professor, Just as Estonians are people of the faith in education, it is very important to us that we be as high as possible on any ranking. If we have been in the 30th place for six years stable, the question arises as to whether some of the nearest countries, whom we very much mean, have come 'at risk' to us. But in the light of your last two questions, I simply wanted to mark out that, indeed, outside Tallinn and Tartu, there tends to be a better living environment. A few years ago, Pärnu's slogan was discussed in Pärnu, and one very colorful [proposal] was that Pärnu's day is two hours longer. Do you think that the potential of the Pärnu region will also be enhanced by the promising arrival of the Baltic railway, so that you can really start working in the capital with higher salaries from a better living environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U19	First, by answering the second question: these good jobs could still come to Pärnu instead of working in Tallinn. Then it would benefit the entire Pärnu region, not just the limes. I may not open up the subject of Rail Baltic here, but come to the first question. Have our good neighbors come dangerously close? Finland is dangerously out of the way, which is in the 12th place and has indeed made a very rapid leap in recent years. Lithuania is 34th, Latvia is 39th and our neighbour Russia is 49th. Lithuania and Latvia have just made a rapid leap in the last few years. But then we rejoice in our neighbors!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U20	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U21	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress, thank you for this presentation. Before I ask my question, I just wanted to say that Mr Urve Tiidus asked a very, very important question in my opinion. I'll comment on that later. I think this is a very important thing that we should think about in Estonia. But my question concerns what you are also saying that more and more of the existing buildings should be re-used. I fully agree with this, having worked in one of Estonia's municipalities for some time. In retrospect, I would say that sometimes even more should have been fought for an old house to be fixed instead of building a new one. What do you think prevented this? Why do we so often prefer to take it down and build a new one instead of re-organizing what we have? What can be done to change it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U22	In an institutional context, I think, the main challenge has been to understand why we have to keep this old one when the new building gets cheaper. We are not doing socio-economic analyses on these old buildings today, and we are not doing footprint analyses either. We are not thinking in the context of the circular economy, but we are thinking purely economically, in the context of building a new building. I think that's the main difference. For example, it is very difficult to break down old buildings in Finland because they are based on the principle of the circular economy, first of all by carrying out a footprint analysis. So I guess we haven't put the value of the old building on our environment in a financial context. This is one of the changes in values that could take place in Estonia in the near future, also taking into account the new budgetary period of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U23	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U24	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. My question concerns the very beginning of this report. Estonia's well-being has indeed increased significantly in recent years and regional stratification has deepened. Is it known that some countries have also implemented successful policies against urbanisation? What are these or what could be applied in Estonia to reduce regional stratification?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U25	However, I would point out one of the main conclusions in the middle of my report that this decrease, the decrease in the rest of Estonia, could try to stop the solidarity principle by keeping these places operational. As I said, people are moving towards prosperity. If there are no services that people need, and if there are no jobs that people need, then the city will move. It is a question of people's quality of life, which is determined today by the services, and, as has been pointed out, the building itself. When the apartments or dwellings where people live are raging and decomposing, people do not want to live there, but rather try to find fresher and more sanitary living conditions. This is one of the problems that the report highlights.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U26	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U27	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for this review and presentation. Very, very much thank you for this thick, 287 pages of publication. Unfortunately, I couldn't read it all, but I made it to page 100. On these 100 pages, as you have started, it is said that [environment] must be suitable for both 8 and 80-year-olds. Housing policy measures are very well outlined. There has been talk about the physical adjustment of the homes of people with disabilities. Indeed, on page 95, we are also discussing caring for older people and those with difficulty moving. But I see in all this material that you have an age review, an 8-year-old and 80-year-old aspect of people with special needs... It is also a very common example of Finland that the city of Iisalm has also started to build elevators for three-storey houses during renovation, just for a baby carriage, a taxier, but also for a wheelchair, so that people do not have to start looking for a new place to live during this period of life. Is this topic for people with special needs more reflected here, or is it not, but age? I'm sorry it's been a few seconds!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U28	First of all, thank you for this very important comment. We do not really touch on universal design in this report. We generally emphasise accessibility and accessibility as an important human right for all groups of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U29	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There's already been a lot of very good answers here, and I can't think of anything new. My question to you would be about your personal opinion. What should the Estonian state do, contribute more to major cities to make them even more human-friendly, or encourage rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U31	Thank you for your question. Here are two questions and two answers. People living in the metropolitan area of Tallinn have the expectation that the city area will function as a whole, that is, the municipalities located near Tallinn and Tallinn could cooperate so that public transport and other services work together. Similarly, common public buildings such as concert halls, shopping centres, schools, etc. could be planned. One side of the coin is cooperation in the urban area in order to make the public space work better than today. On the other hand, it was a question of shrinking Estonia, wasn't it? It is a national question whether we want to see people living in the countryside or whether metropolitanisation continues, as it has now continued. If we want us to continue living in rural areas, if the county centres are now already under pressure from the county centres as regards services and quality of services, then a uniform regional policy package is needed. Individual campaigns and individual small improvements will not help. But yes, as I said, it is a national question of how to proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U32	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U33	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! A team of 40 is behind this human development report. Thank you very much and thank you to each of the 40 people who have done this job! It seems to me that urbanization can be approached broadly in two ways. One way is to take it as something that you have to fight every chance, and megatrends are what you should try to break. Another option is to focus on how it would be good to live in a city knowing that urbanization is taking place. I will focus on this other side of my question. There is an ageing society in Estonia, among other things, and if in 40 years, about one third is older than 65 years old, it requires a proper thought exercise to shape the urban space so that it is convenient, comfortable and safe to live here for older people as well as for young rebellious people. Do you have any good examples where it has succeeded and a suggestion on how to do it in a way that makes it good for both?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U34	Thank you. In essence, this comment is actually about us in 30 years' time, how in 30 years' time we can move in the city space so that we can try to think together. There are certainly good examples in the Nordic countries, where the principles of universal design have already been applied, and Japan also adapts its cities to older people. We have one of the instruments of spatial planning, a guide on how to improve urban space from the point of view of universal design so that older people can also move more easily. But I'm sure it's a topic that urbanists, planners, would like to discuss more. So if you take this as the next strategic spatial planning issue, it would be very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U35	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U36	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for a very interesting piece. One question, for example, is this, although the question would be a lot. People are moving towards well-being, while Finland is moving fast out of our way as a symbol of well-being. But let's get to the specifics now. There's a lot of general planning going on. What should be taken into account when making these general plans from the point of view of spatial planning, reading that green corridors are breaking down, industrial landscapes are coming on, etc.? What would you suggest? Three golden suggestions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U37	The first recommendation is that spatial planning, general planning is a strategic document and this strategic document could be a document that will not be changed after its adoption, for example through detailed planning. It's one of the problems we've been breaking up with the green grids over the last few decades. It is, as has been said, a strategic document that the municipality respects. That's the deal. Second, zoning helps. Here I see the involvement of citizens as key figures. If this is a community agreement, then once again these plans are of better quality. It has to be said that the general planning discussions are currently taking place throughout Estonia, the inclusion instruments and the involvement practice have become very good, spatial planners and consultants have learned the practice of inclusion. So I assume that the quality of engagement has improved and that people's desire to contribute has thus increased. I don't have a record of how it's going right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U38	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Professor, for this very important report and also for a good presentation. My question goes towards the natural environment. I found one such highlighted place here: Estonia's rise in social indicators of human development has been achieved at a disproportionately high ecological price. It's on page 151, if you want to watch. How do you comment on it or dissipate it? What should we perhaps not have done to achieve these socio-economic indicators?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U40	I have no answer to that question. In 2015, two Human Development Reports ago, the same table was similar to the calculation and these figures were significantly different than they are today. This fall has been quite remarkable in a few years. Where it comes from, we can't say that today. We do not have that knowledge, and we have not done this analysis, but we are simply taking it as knowledge today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U41	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U42	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you for this presentation and their thoughts. We all know the saying that the Estonian people must grow up by spirit. There is no doubt that a person has a major role to play there. Unfortunately, looking at all these scenarios, looking at the situation that has arisen, one might ask you whether you see some problem in the context of the spirit's size and electoral circles. The Estonian state and its regional integrity are very important issues, yet the mandate is a currency that shapes the Estonian state. Where there are voters, public resources go. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where in the rural area we are talking about the need for a person to push snow off his private road, five kilometres or longer or shorter, but in the urban area we will probably soon discuss in context whether his street should also clean up for taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U43	Thank you for your question. The report highlighted the principle of justice. This is a matter of solidarity. Whether quality of life should be worse in rural areas than urban areas, it is a philosophical issue. These are the questions we may not have thought about, what quality of life is. Quality of life consists of a wide range of indicators.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U44	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have two questions. It was already said that children could use a bicycle more to go to school than there was an infra. But don't you think we actually have a little bit of this infra, both inside and outside the city? Is there no problem with habits or perhaps cultural background? If you agree with me, how do you change it? The second is the issue of inclusion in the same area. Decision-makers, I dare say, often try to get involved, but can people always be involved? There is this notion that people must also compromise with another person. If I don't get what I want, it's easy to say I'm not involved. If you agree, how do you change these two things or change this social attitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U46	Thank you. In answer to the first question: yes, we have a number of light traffic routes, but the problem is the disruptive nature of the network of these light traffic routes, i.e. moving from point A to point B, is difficult in the urban environment. Here's also the thing that part of the easy-to-mobile route, but the kid doesn't ride a bicycle on the road. It is certainly a question of habit whether and how much a bicycle is used, and a little of it is also a question of financial capacity, because bicycles can also cost something. This is a comprehensive issue that scientists have not examined again, so it is my personal opinion. But the breakage of light traffic routes is one of the serious problems why this movement is low. As we can see, as soon as a light traffic road is made, there are bicycle parks in front of kindergartens and schools. The second question was about inclusion. Yes, I also pointed out in my speech that inclusion must also be learned, that is, to learn to be involved. This is one of the civic competences that we need to improve. This can be done by the local government and the state, for example through media education, as has been pointed out here, in order to improve the quality of the debate, thereby increasing this capacity. But yes, it is within the competence of the local government and the state to help citizens learn to be involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U47	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U48	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Congratulations, the Riigikogu does not talk about space issues very often, of course it is a pleasure. I saw that five of the 40 authors were architects. So it was a pleasure to read it. The question, however, lies in the area of public transport. In the area of public transport, Estonia has been in progress for a long time, first in the capital city, and now also in the state, with free public transport. If I look at these graphs, it seems to me that this experiment, that a lower fee should outweigh the lack of quality, still has not succeeded. Caring is growing and the use of public transport, unfortunately, is falling. What is your assessment, which is the most important quality or cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U49	Thank you. First of all, I am concerned that, after the corona crisis, many of the county lines have stopped running because there is no demand, as we have been able to read through the media. The use of public transport, of course, also depends on the price of the ticket. If the ticket price is too high, then the car is still preferred. But I see that public transport as free public transport has not justified itself. This is what the figures show in the Human Development Report.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U50	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U51	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, thank you very much for this very comprehensive report. I want to give you an opportunity to comment on what tends to excite everyone more, i.e. Estonia's 2050 scenarios. It seems to me that one hour of Estonia has been proposed as a preference here. As a rural person myself, I am saddened to see that most of us still have to move to the city. That was just my comment. Please tell me how you assess, what is the most likely of these scenarios or what combination of scenarios is most likely if we move forward on this course. What do you think would be the most desirable scenario for us, as people and as a society, to lead the most harmonious and happy life possible in 2050?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U52	Now, when we think about 2050, as we said before, we are all predominantly elderly. Then what awaits us? If we continue on the same course as today, the left-wing scenarios will probably apply if we look at these tents on page 269. If we want a change and want a more harmonious, human-centred, enjoying Estonia, then these are scenarios on the right. What are we supposed to do? Some things have already been said here, but one more thing I would like to point out is certainly a very good Internet connection in rural areas as well. During the Coronary crisis, a lot of people had to admit that even if the Internet existed, teleworking was difficult because the coverage was uneven. You can't have Skype and Zoom meetings, and people have to go to a city or a larger center to do online meetings. I'm sure it's one of the things that needs attention. This is one of those, it seems, basic services, which we are currently a little short of.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U53	Last question, Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U54	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear colleague from Tallinn University! First of all, I would also like to thank you for this meaningful presentation and a very interesting collection. My question relates to the re-use of premises. The architectural heritage in Estonia and Finland is completely different. We have a problem with advisory facilities. In Tartu, for example, and in the countryside, I have seen many large buildings that are in progress in terms of construction, with which nothing can be done. They can't be reconstructed, they can't be broken down, and they're standing. Unfortunately, I didn't find anything on them here. Maybe you can comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U55	Thank you for your question. Those unfinished buildings that are not built should, in my opinion, be removed from the urban environment, demolished. As far as the otherwise Soviet heritage is concerned, some of the Soviet heritage has already been protected as a single layer of heritage. Soviet dwellings can be renovated in the same way as other milieu buildings. We already have this knowledge today at Tallinn University of Technology. But yes, in answer to the specific question: buildings that have not been completed could be removed from the urban environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U56	Thank you very much, Professor, dear waitress. The 40 minutes for questioning are full, we will not ask you any more questions. Thank you once again for a meaningful presentation. We're getting ready to hear another report. Editor of the chapter 'Estonian Dialogue Room' of the Estonian Human Development Report 2019/2020, Head of Media Innovation and Digital Culture Centre of the Tallinn University's Baltic Film, Media, Arts and Communication Institute Indrek Ibrus, please! Up to 15 minutes, questions and answers up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U57	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Hi! Professor Helen Sooväli-Sepping, editor-in-chief of the Estonian Human Development Report, spoke to you a moment ago about what we know about Estonia's spatial development. Estonia, however, has several rooms. In addition to physical space, there are a variety of imaginary, man-made spaces that hold Estonia together. Estonia's space for discussion of the day-to-day debate is probably one of the main areas of thought. This room, too, is undergoing significant changes. Paradoxically, these changes are in the opposite direction, i.e. Estonia's discussion space is characterised by concentration and fragmentation at the same time. In doing so, it can be said that these opposite movements result in one another. The new digital platforms have allowed for the fragmentation of the discussion rooms. Estonia is increasingly discussing in different rooms and in different ways, but as Andreas Ventsel and Mari-Liis Madison's article in the Human Development Report shows, these voices are often 'affective'. This means that emotional speech on social media platforms, quick labelling of news situations, expressing concern or irritability, biasing attitudes, and often hate speech have started to give rise to the tone in public debates. Such communication does not allow for social dialogue aimed at understanding and supports the dissemination of misinformation. I don't think there's any news for the people in this hall. However, the Human Development Report also reports developments that are both problematic and positive at the same time. The article by Veronika Kalmus and Andra Siibak reveals that young Internet users in Estonia use social media to get to the news, but consider journalism publications more reliable as sources of true news. Young people do not contribute much in online discussion rooms because they fear the hierarchy and the same fascinating language. Instead of intermediated discussion rooms, face-to-face talks are preferred, and social contributions are made through concrete, real-life activities. It is problematic that young people do not dare to take part in the public debate, but it is good that they can still target their participation productively. In addition, a year ago, in the context of another survey, it became clear that Estonian media leaders highly value young people's media literacy. Estonian teenagers know that for true information, you need to turn to traditional media and recognised institutions. Thus, general education curricula that develop young people's media literacy can be considered a relative success story in Estonia. This led the editors of this year's Estonian Human Development Report to propose to extend well-established education programmes among young people to the wider population. The development of such programmes could be carried out by media organisations in cooperation with public authorities. However, in the context of the risks associated with social media and other online media, one more thing needs to be highlighted. In fact, in the world as a whole, communication researchers have reached a consensus that the intermediate concern about echo chambers and filter bubbles has not been justified by the fact that part of society is stuck in a very monopolistic and similar media. People can participate in many places, but TV and radio programmes and newspapers, in addition to social media, also reach people and enrich and balance people's media menus. It is important, then, that these newspapers, radio programmes, and television channels, or the editorial and curated discussion room, reach people. This is necessary because the editorial filter helps to separate the grains from the chuckles, to keep the target so that the debate can also have a result, whether it is a consensus, a presentation of the richness of ideas or a dialogue, a discussion based on the actual arguments of different points of view. The latter can only be guaranteed by a broad-based press. There is no greater doubt that the main media institutions in Estonia understand the need to serve society on a broad basis. This is confirmed by studies to date. It should be stressed that this is also to be expected from well-known international media market surveys. The fact that advertisers want to hit the purchasing center of society, that the central part also constitutes the majority of the newspaper subscribers means that the need to stay on the water economically and the need to hit the balance points of society are mutually reinforcing. In other words, the media are generally characterised by the search for shared values in society and, as a rule, economically motivated to bring the same society back together around these values. For the same reason, general fragmentation, for example by different digital media platforms, is a problem for the press and in turn has motivated a move towards greater concentration. Efforts are being made to be present in all media forms, to communicate these channels and platforms, still to reconnect with lost audience groups. In Estonia, concentration has taken place, with three major organisations or groups dominant in our own media system. This is problematic in many ways, but it also has its advantages in bringing together a social debate space. In the Estonian Human Development Report, the article by Ragne Kõuts analyses the complex task of the professional press to resist the fragmentation of opinion space and to keep the public debate supportive of democracy, but it also shows how, in the current circumstances, the pandemic and the resulting economic crisis are increasingly difficult to deal with. The main reason for this is that digitalisation has meant the movement of audiences to global platforms, where the curating of the Estonian cultural space or the content of the debate does not cause any heartache. With people, a very large proportion of advertising money has gone, which weakens the media institutions even further. According to different estimates, around one fifth to one third of Estonia's advertising revenue has moved to platforms beyond the sea. It is gone because we have all shared detailed data on ourselves as consumers with these platforms. Unlike Estonia's own media, however, foreign platforms do not pay taxes to the Estonian state, thus deepening the unequal competitive situation. Therefore, with the European Union's partners, we should move forward with the introduction of the so-called digital tax, which would be fair to Estonia's own institutions. The tax revenue section could support Estonia's media and cultural organisations as a whole. In other words, the life force of our own institutions is a key issue in terms of the sustainability of the discussion space that brings Estonia together. But which institutions do we need? Paradoxically, the room for thought is that they need both concentration and fragmentation for development at the same time. In addition to the national media bringing Estonia together on the central floor, we also need the widest possible spectrum of specialised media or communication environments. Distinctive spaces are needed where more specific discussions can be focused, and where new knowledge can thus develop and settle. This means that there must be portals for investors, newspapers for teachers, forums for engineers, specialist journalism for researchers, etc. Considering Estonia's population, it is a great achievement that we already have much of the above and more. However, the task of the national press in the midst of this richness must then be to communicate with these smaller premises, to obtain information from them and to create new content that connects and combines them. However, this is not always good. In the Human Development Report, the article by Arko Oleski shows that the media have a fundamental will, for example, to involve researchers and support knowledge-based debates. Estonian journalism is the so-called science religion. However, it is wrong that these same debates, with the participation of the media, can often develop into performance-like or ideological, idea-ologists. This may make participation in them frustrating for researchers, which can in turn motivate them to abandon them. However, this abandonment is not only a problem in the most abstract democratic plan; it may also have an impact on economic development. Since innovation is always driven by a combination of different expertise, the economic environment is also dependent on a functioning and diverse room for discussion. In the digital age and in the context of the development of the service economy, innovation researchers increasingly recognise that, in addition to universities, investment funds and so on, the "national innovation systems" also provide a diverse area of information exchange and debate. However, different discussion rooms related to specific local topics are needed across Estonia. This means that the regional and even more local press is important. It must be viable in order to allow places to have a systematic, inclusive, properly curated and time-enhancing debate on local development needs. Local media are also vital for the development of local economic activity. For example, in order for businesses to advertise their services to the local people or to be criticised, there must be a local newspaper. Once local development needs have been widely discussed in their own media, no new production units will be built unexpectedly, hitting the reluctance of the local population. However, the county media are even more directly hit in Estonia than the national media. The commercial money's gonna make it to the last drop. The prospect of local newspapers was not good before the pandemic. The share of newspaper advertising in the advertising market is generally in decline, and the income of Estonian media publications from online advertising has not grown for some time. Only radio showed good growth last year, especially because its consumption is stable and external competitors do not jeopardise this area. However, the threat to local independent journalism increases the so-called mediaisation of local authorities. Their own publications, which mostly do not follow the code of ethics of the press, can rely on the government's wallet, but often also take the advertising market from independent media. So it is no wonder that last year the Põlvamaa newspaper Koit stopped appearing, this year the Tartu Express, and a few days ago the Põltsamaa Official Journal made the same decision. Here we come to the conclusion that keeping Estonia's space diverse starts with empowering this discussion room. We need to start looking for new ways to support independent local and regional media. These methods do not always and necessarily have to be financial, although Estonia is a country that supports its press relatively modestly and new resources could be created to support the introduction of digital tax. However, new ways should also be sought to direct Estonian public and private media, cultural and other social institutions to cooperate, to empower each other. For example, Estonian Public Broadcasting could receive additional tasks to support local media. In conclusion, we recommend three more specific courses of action to support the development of Estonia's space for discussion. Firstly, the introduction of a digital tax on international large platforms, secondly, the development of support measures for local and regional media, and thirdly, the provision of media and information literacy development programmes developed in general education in Estonia to the wider population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U58	Thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu have questions for you. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U59	Thank you for the chapter on this report, thank you for this report. My question concerns media literacy. It also says that young people's media literacy is rather good, the problem is with older people. You also said in your speech that you should think about how media training or the development of media literacy can also be offered to older people. But the question is, how? I remember, once, when I was in the European Parliament, we did a survey on digital skills. Those people who replied that their skills were low also answered the question of whether you wanted training, an addition that you did not want. How can we help people who, we see, are left behind? That's a big problem. But if they don't really want to be helped, how do they get there for training?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U60	Obviously, it does not have to be 'formal' training, that everyone gathers somewhere and then gets trained. It is probably a longer-term process where the same media themselves can share information materials or know what information is evidenceable, what is reliable and where to turn to for true information. We are really talking here about very informal long-term processes. That's a good question. I don't know it yet, but we have to act on it, it has to be figured out. One good example in this context is that an additional page has already emerged on the ERR website, where this learning opportunity has been offered to residents.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U61	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U62	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress, thank you for your contribution. The interrelationship between society and space is undoubtedly one of the most interesting topics. But politicians themselves are certainly very much shaping this space for debate. The reluctance of young people to do so seems to me that we all have a responsibility here. How do you see this side of the recent political culture? Question two. Perhaps you can open up the topic of a possible'self-censorship' in the Estonian press. As a policy, we cannot say what should be in the press, who should be able to figure out the space and time in the press. As your specialist, you may see it much better. Do we have any worrying tendencies with the press that censor themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U63	There were two questions. I've forgotten the first one, the detail. [[Y. Alender specifies the floor.]] Yes, as far as Estonian young people are concerned, how to say, this phenomenon is quite interesting, in the sense that they are well-confident at the same time, which concerns their digital skills, while at the same time there is relatively more digital bullying in Estonia. Their confidence relates to technical skills rather than content creation skills, so there is room for improvement. But the positive aspect is that they know what the media means, they know where true information comes from. In short, they have learned not to trust everything that exists on the Internet. So there are problems, but some tendencies are positive, just the part that is probably covered in school education that concerns the content of media critical relationships. The second question was whether we have self-censorship in the media. I wouldn't go that far. There are normal editorial principles about how to participate in the public space, how to shape this public space, what to talk about. Different choices can be made here, but I can see that the Estonian press is still carrying out relatively good standards, within recognised working methods.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U64	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There is an interesting subject in these articles that concerns the effective communication and its role in society. Very interesting! I read one paragraph: 'In crisis situations as well as at other times, the social media's ability to express emotions that would otherwise be suppressed is also linked to the fascinating communication. " After all, in recent months, we are seeing a great deal of how it helps to alleviate social tensions in a sense, but also to increase them when we think about the whole world. At the same time, you say that there is no mechanism in Estonia that directly motivates researchers to participate in public debates. It's that rational point of view, knowledge and science-based information. How, though, can researchers be attracted to these discussions and public debates so that emotions do not prevail?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U66	On this point, I strongly recommend reading the article by Arko Oleski in the same Human Development Report, where he brings three case studies and describes these challenges and problems. It should be said in the same way that this is a long-term education programme. On the one hand, Estonian universities, as the main employers of researchers, must train their employees, how to participate successfully in such debates and debates. On the other hand, the Estonian press will probably have to deal with the same issue of how to prevent these debates, as Mr Olesk points out in his article, from becoming a "show" so that the press can look up its point of view, its main content, and focus on it instead of enjoying this conflict, those differences that may manifest themselves superficially in these debates, but where, in fact, there is a dispute over a specific detail or information unit. So it is, in general, a two-way education programme for both scientists themselves and the press, who should perhaps learn and who should have more responsibility in terms of how to better present this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U67	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U68	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! This morning in Hellovision, one of the co-authors, Antti Roose, introduced this report so that it is not a book that can be read, it is a book that must be studied. That's great! But if you want to connect this big hall to your subject here, then politicians used the general discussion room for 20 years until administrative reform was finally carried out. Does this report also include the impact of the administrative reform on our overall human development? Can you open such an aspect or how about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U69	I'd stick to my original point. But I would point out that I mentioned that the Põltsamaa newspaper was closed and the Põlva County newspaper Koit closed, and when we look at the circulations in Estonia, we see that the Raplamaa newspaper and the Läänemaa newspaper are as follows in terms of "tries," which shows that the administrative reform has further reduced in Estonian counties, these smaller, discussion space has suffered. Evidently, these leaves have become less effective and are closed one after the other, or at least there is a corresponding risk. It is again in some ways, I do not know if there is a place to think, but it may be seen as a result of one, in any case, in terms of the space for discussion of these smaller counties, above all. These newspapers also do not belong to any larger group, which means they are on their own. This may be one of the potential concerns.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U70	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U71	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a question concerning participation in the debate. I have talked about this with many entrepreneurs, including top officials, academic people. One of the reasons why it is not advisable to participate in the public debate after the emergence of social media and comments is certain mental violence that comes against any person who, today, dares to express an opinion in the media, especially if this opinion may be slightly different from what such a mainstream opinion is. What do you think it's coming from as an expert? Are people more angry and expressing anger by that, or have they always been just as angry, but just social media and digital media have made it visible? I think this is an important question. One option suggests that it's okay, nothing's changed, it can still give an opinion, but the other one should really be careful.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U72	That is a good and interesting question. There has also been a debate among media researchers on what we really want for decades. Do we want a room for debate that leads to a consensus, whether it is an objective, or whether it is also important that we have as many voices as possible, also those angry ones that may not have found their channel before? Perhaps it is important that these voices at least be expressed so that they exist, that they also have some sort of audibility. In the context of social media development, the answer to your question is probably twofold in the sense that, on the one hand, these voices have received a channel, but they have also been amplified, they have been able to organise themselves, they have perhaps also developed in a certain sense of differentiation. At the same time, it has not been accompanied by some sort of discipline. In general, in the context of the Human Development Report, we still see this 'affective' speech as a problem. What this will certainly lead to is not listening to each other, amplifying individual positions; it will not result in dialogue. So in this sense, one of the objectives of developing broader media literacy should also be to listen to one another, to be able to engage in dialogue. Andreas Ventsel and Mari-Liis Madisson in their article also discuss whether we should start to recognise good moderators, well modeled discussion rooms with some quality labels. I think it's an interesting idea to consider.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U73	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, dear waitress, for an interesting presentation. You said that people have given their personal data to international giga groups and that they are used and sold as goods. I think we've all noticed that. But I see that the prices for ordering Estonian newspapers are such that for one euro all the pages of the Postimees Group could be read for a month recently. But at the same time, somebody has to pay the press. Hans H.Luik once said that the Estonian media has never been so attached to the reader that everything happens according to clicks. Who does the journalist work for? Does he work for these clicks or for the reader, if the reader does not pay him or wants to pay him at all, only one euro for a month?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U75	Thank you. In this context, I suggest you make one click forward, then you will see that this one-euro monthly fee is usually only valid for the first month, and from there it moves to ten euros. We have done various interviews and contacts with Estonian media leaders. This can be pointed out in response to your question, as I pointed out in the report, that a very large part of advertising money has moved out of Estonia. In some ways, there is no good hope for it to come back, which is why, in general, at least according to the media leaders themselves, the focus is rather on increasing orders on what you have highlighted, which means that the importance of the click may be reduced over time. While, in a classic way, newspapers have always earned both the advertiser and the reader at the same time and have always been in a certain sense in a role conflict, in some ways the move away from this advertising money can be seen as a certain advantage or as an opportunity to see that the reader becomes a priority, at least in potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U76	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your report, you touched local newspapers and, unfortunately, in the key, as very much is reflected in the larger media, that they are a bit of a bad taste. There was also talk of involving people in the previous presentation, and I am pretty sure that the local government papers have a very important role to play in involving people. Yes, there are also some bad examples where there may be too many policies, but there is a role in involving people in any case. It is possible to write on more detailed and more local topics than the county newspapers would like to do, because the internal affairs of one municipality may not affect the whole county. Why is it that, in the larger media or public space, people want to hurt local newspapers a lot and accuse them of taking away advertising money? If they were bad or politicised, local companies wouldn't order advertising from there. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U78	Thank you for your question. I will comment on this in such a way that democracy works well when the press acts as the 'fourth power', which is why the autonomy of the press is important. I would still stick to the fact that it is certainly a good thing that local authorities share information about their activities, but it would still be very important for the press to be autonomous, independent and also to function in places such as the 'fourth power'.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U79	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U80	Thank you. Thank you for this presentation. I have been very concerned for a long time that such a unified, rational and democratic public debate space will split. In this sense, I am very pleased that this issue has been addressed here. But I'm a little skeptical about whether it's actually so easy to explain that the state is small and there are few subscribers and social media that advertising money is moving away, in that it's the only way to justify it. As a letter in between rightly says here, closed meaning creates polarisation. In this sense, its impact on society is very great. But if we think that very similar processes and speakers are also taking place in the United States, for example, where there is no problem with small size or other things, then how much do you think this issue is'media-specific' and perhaps technology-specific, and how much is there, however, a wider social confrontation for traditional institutions, a loss of public trust, etc., which media encapsulation simply expresses as an epiphenomene?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U81	Thank you. I would point out here that in some ways Estonia's smallness is not a problem in the context of your question. There is also room for polarising journalism in large media markets. In general, there is a consensus among European media researchers or an understanding that such "partisan" journalism is not well suited to small societies, what we see in the United States, the United States, which may have amplified this "polarisation" there or amplified it, for example, in Italy or the United Kingdom. In this sense, I can see, and this is what we are also pointing out here, that Estonia's national press, however, is prepared to bring society together and rather to reduce this polarisation as a general trend. Do these 'polarisation' voices, which, in the context of Estonia, arise in the context of social media, manifest general distrust of institutions? Definitely. All the more so should be dealt with in these environments as well, I know that this is a difficult task, there is no doubt about the development of the so-called modeling quality or social debate skills in terms of this same media literacy. As I pointed out, and this is undoubtedly a difficult thing, as I have already said, studies among Estonian young people show, as I have already said, that they know where to get the news, but their own content creation skills are still lacking. So here, too, educational programs have other things to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U82	Thank you. One last question. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U83	Thank you for the floor. Good waitress, thank you very much for your presentation and your report. I am still asking in the context of this very debate room. Perhaps you will give your vision of how you will see the role of national broadcasting in this. What must be national broadcasting for it to play an active role? What are these trends that are perhaps recommended, and what are those that are dangerous?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U84	Thank you. We are in a bit of a strange situation in Estonia with regard to national broadcasting. This relates above all to the fact that private media are not doing well, the market is not currently feeding private media for various reasons, so it is as if national broadcasting had to take over different functions one by one, becoming a central media institution in Estonia, which in my opinion should gradually change the role of national broadcasting throughout the system. Probably rather than neutralising the shortcomings of private media, which have so far been a function of mitigating the market failure, the next task must perhaps be to create new opportunities for other media, other cultural organisations, a whole system. This is called the theory of innovation systems, where it is important that the various institutions complement each other with their functions, so that one action creates opportunities for another. How to do it, it's like a long story, but in general it's supposed to be that kind of orientation. But, of course, here is the same question that has already been mentioned here, the'mediaisation of local governments', which we are dealing with here, and which I mentioned in today's presentation, the question of whether this same national broadcasting could somehow begin to amplify the local press. Does this mean that there is going to be some way of working with local newspapers, offering them some kind of digital distribution opportunities, increasing the network of local journalists? These are such points of discussion and this is a discussion that should be held.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U85	Thank you very much, dear waitress. The time for presentation and questions is up. We thank you again. We will now listen to the presentation by Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Lauri Läänemets, for ten minutes, questions and answers for up to ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U86	Mr. Vice-Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Honourable reporters and cooperation with all the rapporteurs! Our scientists have once again done a very grateful job devising the state of our society, our current and future choices of our development. On behalf of Parliament, I thank you very much and I bow to you for this. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the Human Development Report in a relatively comprehensive manner at its meeting. We focused mainly on the issue of inequality, or two messages from the report: Estonia has achieved stable prosperity, but it has come at the cost of inequality, and unconsidered spatial processes have deepened inequalities in both urban and rural areas. The Estonian spatial environment has been able to develop relatively in the last 30 years. This has been a question of the relationship between freedom and public intervention. The main approach has been that the free will of people and businesses determines the right trends and also offers solutions. In other words, the market will determine where we are going to develop, which metropolitan villages will be formed, what our infrastructure is, how well the new settlement areas are connected and link people, how many hinterland areas are created, where jobs are moving, and whether the county centres are weakening or strengthening. So far, it has been an overwhelming vision of a person's constitutional right to exercise himself. However, the Human Development Report will guide us to ask what the cost of this self-realisation will come and whether the national spectator will not limit the freedoms from the other end. If jobs and services are concentrated only in larger centres, then for residents of rural areas and small towns, this means the loss of work and other life required in the vicinity of their place of residence. The settlement system is increasingly inclined towards larger urban regions or even only the capital region. It marks great inequalities and limits the possibility of actually exercising itself. Researchers state that regional policy focused on competitiveness has supported market-economy developments and has not reduced the process of marginalisation. Effective regional policy cannot be made without a redistribution component. Due to the smaller resources of the outermost regions, it is difficult for these regions to compete with the core regions of the country's economy in the competition for EU support. This is said not only by the Human Development Report, but also by the Centre for Monitoring Development in its regional studies, for example, and scientists have reached the same conclusions in their social views. We have overlooked the fact that urbanisation has reduced the number of people with knowledge and skills in many regions and therefore the social network of these communities has also weakened. For example, the ability to raise euro funds is weaker for municipalities, businesses and NGOs. This will require regional policy in the future, with differences and strong public intervention, and will ask us how we will compensate for the emigration of knowledge. The restructuring of the economy and the new patterns of living and commuting support the vicious circle of depopulation, leading to the disappearance of important public services, such as schools, which in turn exacerbates the decline. It is the issue of schools that gets too little attention in our society, and here too, there is a great deal of reference to the relationship between supply and demand. When we talked about a state gymnasium in the county centre ten years ago and the need for it to be established, today we have sneaked into a situation where the higher centre has a comprehensive school and the surrounding schools are either closed or there are schools of 3 or 6 years old. This is, in fact, contrary to what the Estonian people have thought so far by access to education close to home. The great fact is that half of Estonia's people go to berries or mushrooms. In fact, the balance between conservation and management needs and deserves special attention. In cross-country comparison, Estonia is currently the last in the Nordic and Baltic countries and has made the biggest fall in the 21st century. We no longer have the competitive advantage of a pure nature country in the region, and it even seems that the recent rise in social indicators of human development has been achieved at a disproportionately high ecological cost. Estonia has fallen from 26th to 48th place in the world in ten years, including from 7th to 59th place in the case of the viability of ecosystems. Looking at the natural environment separately, Estonia's position has retreated from 17th to 24th place in the case of biodiversity and habitat status. So far, we have beaten the drums strongly, that we are close to nature, that we care about the environment, that is our social wealth. It seems to be rich, but rather quantity rather than quality. The repercussions of biodiversity affect our quality of life, and I dare say that soon the economy will also be affected. However, in order for today's debate not to remain merely a debate, but to become decisive, I propose, for my part, that the report be directed to the Board of the Riigikogu to deal with all committees, so that specific steps are brought forward for the innovations and changes that need to be put in place, whether by amending laws, in the state budget or as longer-term strategic objectives. The Corona virus has helped to make it clearer that we are not sustainable when we manage this way. Important changes are needed in regional policy, nature and health, working life and how we organise the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U87	Thank you very much. You have questions. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U88	Thank you! I thought I'd take this spontaneous opportunity. We are very often here in the Riigikogu, according to the scenario, everyone reads the prepared statements. I had an idea listening to you. As we know, the budget of local governments is an important part of the budget, a very large part of the income tax of the individual, and it moves along with the person. If somebody in the county government goes to live in the capital, that money will be taken over by the capital immediately. Quite a thought: would it help if the money moved with the person a little later? If it were not that if I went to live in Tallinn from Kärdla or Viljandi, Tallinn would immediately receive my tax money, but for a few years this local government would have time to adapt to the so-called shrinking and also to prepare for this adaptation, could it help? [[Voices from the floor.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U89	Thank you. I don't know. Where a person moves, there are costs. The most sensible thing for a country is that a person does not move to the capital, for example. In fact, if we're looking at the cost actually, living in a city involves more costs, you have to do more roads, build more houses and all that. But while you're looking at the country, at the same time you'll have empty apartments, and there's never been a resource, you have roads that are used less. I think there's such a move. But when it comes to money or taxes, I think taxes could still move with a person. Maybe you could think about how much tax goes with a person. If you have a second place to live, for example, you take two thirds of your taxes with you, but you leave a third where you go less.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U90	Thank you. Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U91	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! A push from the previous question: of course, municipalities also have a second component, a fine-tuning fund that should smooth out such up and down fluctuations. But as a result, we also have the opportunity to have two homes. In Pärnumaa, the municipality that was best managed before the administrative reform was small Varbla and precisely because there are a lot of entries, there are the homes of the rich people of Tallinn and Harjumaa. They do not need any services, but their tax revenue is precisely that of the municipality. It was also a little related to the fact that they did not want to pay taxes to Tallinn. Perhaps you are discussing within your party how to reallocate money in regional policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U92	Thank you. We have discussed this and we will certainly discuss it further.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U93	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U94	Thank you. Dear waitress, In response to this idea of tax delay, you put a sentence in your mouth so that it would be better if they didn't move at all to stay in the country. For a moment, I had an association with the subject of coerciveism. Would you like to comment on that? Don't take this very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U95	Yeah, I got it. My point wasn't that a man doesn't have a choice where he can live. Of course, a person lives either in the country or in the city. The question is rather that they are moving because the situation is forcing them to move. The same thing that the Human Development Report says: if you do not have a job on the ground, if services decrease, if it is expensive to move or not to have normal public transport and you have to drive back and forth from a long distance all the time, it will force you to move. It's probably not your real heart desire. Most people are likely to want to live where they are born. In short, the ideal in an Estonian country would be that it would be impossible for a person to go somewhere because of a situation or a national environment. It's good if a person can live where he wants to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U96	Before I give the floor to the next questioner, I say that the rapporteur proposed that the Bureau discuss the referral of the Human Development Report to the committees. I say that the Bureau will certainly do so, so let us take note of this proposal. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U97	Thank you, Vice President. Good waitress! Let's start with a small remark. As far as I know, the whole point of living in a city, urbanization, is to save resources. It should not be said that living in the countryside is much cheaper. But now to the Commission's work, which you are giving us an overview of here. When the Commission dealt with this, did you also discuss the next phase of the work of the Expert Group on Spatial Creation? This report deals in several places with the situation that we have with the urban environment, with the fact that many local authorities do not have this capacity themselves or are not obliged to be responsible for the creation of space. The state's so-called assistance competence, including supervision in some ways, should become more effective here in order for things to make a qualitative leap. A great deal of work was done by the Expert Group on Spatial Creation. Did you discuss what these next steps are to make a real difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U98	I'm very sorry to say that we didn't discuss this. The main debate focused on this was still several months ago when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the issue of inequality rather than whether it was the case or not. On the subject of space, if I am not mistaken, the only debate that concerned the introduction of old buildings. Unfortunately, there was no more of this debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U99	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U100	Thank you. You were talking about how we've fallen in different indices to protect the value of the ecosystem. There is a lot of talk about the forest in the Human Development Report. Indeed, let us see how intensive the forest has been managed both in the state forest and in the private forest. There are historical reasons here, the formation of stands, etc., but obviously we can also see in a forward-looking way that, for example, the same RMK cuttings come closer to the settlements to fill the volumes that the country has set and obviously the ecological and environmental values of forests fall. There are undoubtedly economic arguments to increase logging. However, it clearly needs to be reduced from an ecological point of view. How should an agreement be reached in society so that we can bring the cutting volume into a tight coma so that the forests are ecologically and socially sustainable?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U101	That's an interesting question. I must say that we did not discuss this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; I have something to answer here myself. I would like to answer this by saying that the logic is that it is through cooperation. The previous rapporteurs also said that they could not say for sure, but the cost of our social success has probably been that the natural environment has been hit. I think that this point of balance should be at the heart of this debate. If we keep trying to become richer, wealthier and more successful as a society, then sometimes it can happen that some of the more important things are forgotten. I dare say that if, for example, in the case of forests, we are only talking about the volume of felling and how important this is for the economy, we could also recall the debate on a crucial national issue in this Chamber, initiated by the Committee on the Environment, when scientists were talking about species diversity and that many species are on the verge of extinction, that we want to protect the indigenous forest, but unfortunately, the wilderness is not where the national protected areas are, but, I understood, the indigenous forest is more where the ermets are managed and there must be some balance. At one point, for example, five or ten years later, when someone reports that this, this and this species of birds or species of animals or plant species have died out, a relatively painful social reaction may also occur. This painful social response may have consequences in the elections and may eventually also have consequences for forest managers. As a rule, the way things end up is that those who are bigger survive, but those who are smaller get hit. If these little ones get hit again, we need to see where they are scattered around Estonia. It's a regional hick again. So I think we need to find a balance here, and this is still working with him.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U102	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! The subject of the forest moved me to ask. How do you explain that Sweden is in the 5th place in this report, Finland in the 10th place, that the intensity of forest management is the same, that the cutting gear is higher, but that they are significantly higher? You have made a very clear parallel with the volume of felling. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U104	Unfortunately, I can't explain that content to you. But I turned down what was discussed or not in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and said to my opinion. That was my opinion as a waitress. But unfortunately, I do not know the situation in Sweden and Finland, and so it is difficult for me to compare it with the situation in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U105	Thank you, good waitress. No more questions for you. Now we have the opportunity to open negotiations. On behalf of Yoko Alender Reform Party, speech chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U106	Good manager! Honourable scientists! Ladies and gentlemen and people who are following us through the press! Let me start by asking ourselves what are the values on which we want to shape our living environment. I propose these three values: human-centredness, coherence and nature-friendlyness. In fact, it seems to me that these same values were also included throughout the subtext of this report, although the report more identifies problems and the situation that has arisen when it offers new solutions. Nevertheless, I think that these values were there and maybe they were reflected in the President's preface, which I think was very different. What does that mean? Human-centred. I am very pleased that this sentence of Jan Gehl, a Danish urbanist, a true scientist and a practitioner about the urban space, which fits both eight and 80 years of age, sums up what is human-centred. This means that everyone can move, everyone is safe and enjoyable to deliver, that this environment is conducive to healthy choices. As a matter of fact, there are huge economic benefits here, but I am not talking about this at this point. Coherence. Once again, of course, this concerns infrastructure, comfort, ease of movement, and the issue of equality, which was addressed. Go on, nature-friendly. Very important, and I think that the greatest value that connects us as Estonians, as confirmed by value research, is precisely nature. It is a characteristic of Estonia that our nature is so close to us, and it is a value which most people still consider very important. These figures were worrying, which has been pointed out here. Perhaps the role of the State Forest Management Centre should be asked. In fulfilling his so-called statutory obligations, which he has to carry out with his activities, does he have the role to play in order to shape our living environment in a sustainable way? I would like to make it clear that it was said here that we had so far had a liberal tradition of spatial design. I don't like the use of the word [here] at all "liberal." If you fail to fulfil your obligations, there will be no connection with liberalism. Local governments have been given a clear role in shaping the living environment in Estonia. We all have this role: where we choose our place of residence, which school we choose, how we move between them. But it is the local government that needs to ensure that we are good at making healthy sustainable choices. If the local authority has not been able to create such an environment anywhere, it has been said for a long time that the state should also come to a stronger help here. This same task force on spatial creation, the office of the state architect, if you like, might clarify the subject. Obviously, we need to move on to this issue and see how we can move our Estonia to the next level. Spatial creation is a fine art, and things don't happen by themselves. Let me give you a few good examples of such grassroots initiatives. A Pink Club that installs bench boards in a public space. People have action, it works. This is the site in Instagram, in social media, like not_tallinn. Look at what urban space would look like if it were dealt with by professionals on the very basis of the values I mentioned. Telliskivi Creative City, Noblessner, that Tallinn city centre, Tallinn city centre has moved to North Tallinn... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U107	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U108	...is not random. This is the result of a very sensitive curation. Our capital is our symbol. In the streets of the city centre, there is a emptiness, a wind, an old town is not far from getting to some parts of it. We need to think seriously about what's going on in our capital. I am very happy as a northern townman about what is happening in northern Tallinn despite the Tallinn City Government, but this should also be the concern of every Estonian in the city centre of our capital city. It's high time we got involved. A few more examples. The same good public space program when urban squares in small towns began to be organized. I was one of the authors of this idea in my previous job. It's like trying to fix things afterwards, trying to embellish them. In fact, decisions that are crucial for small towns are, for example, to allow [a] next shopping centre, whether to allow it beyond the real heart of the city. Also, decisions to allow [build] schools to close, whether roads are connected to each other in the cycling network, as has been said here, and whether we have the same sustainability in planning processes. For example, let us take the very theme of Rail Baltic, which is now being taken to a ditch. In fact, this corridor was designated in the "Estonia 2030" plan for a very long time ago. We shape space with all our daily decisions, as our politicians, as our people, in every position. However, the opinion of specialists should also be taken into account. I think this report will give us much more education on this subject. I am delighted that we are, I think, ready as a people today. From here on out, I think, based on these values, it can only get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U109	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Siret Eagle Centre Party. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good guys in the hall! Dear scientists, Over the past decades, social and spatial inequalities have deepened in most Central and Eastern European countries. There has also been an increase in regional inequality in Estonia, which has led a large part of Estonia to become a periphery within the country. As most jobs are located in larger cities, leaving the country, especially for the younger generation, has become commonplace. Without political intervention and targeted regional policy, we would soon talk about only two viable cities in Estonia: Tallinn and Tartu. This is not in the interests of a strong and coherent Estonia. Unfortunately, policies that do not take account of the concerns of local governments, which have been cultivated for 17 years, have been an important reason for the development of these differences. Indeed, scars obtained in the past are not easy to cure, but even worse is not dealing with the problem. However, the country has not given up on rural areas, and under the leadership of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, the recent government coalitions have taken steps in the right direction, bearing in mind the importance of strong regional policy and its conscious implementation. As the Prime Minister himself has said, a strong local level and sustainable rural life guarantee a viable country. In my opinion, regional policy is a lifeline for the creation of strong regional centres. Tensile centres, which provide both the necessary services and jobs, also keep people on the ground who may not live directly in the centre. I do not agree with the view that people living in the countryside should work exclusively in the agricultural sector or in related areas. On the contrary, we need to develop the internet connection of the so-called last mile so that any person who can work remotely can do so while living in the countryside. The importance of teleworking was also clearly demonstrated by the crisis. Remote work will hopefully become normal, so that the people of Estonia can use their time even more wisely in the already digitised society. Its necessity is also seen by the state, which is why this year the government led by Jüri Ratas allocated EUR 15 million to speed up the last mile, i.e. the high-speed fixed internet connection. In order to achieve a more uniform regional development, we have initiated national programmes to help the counties on the outskirts of Estonia even more. One such region is Ida-Virumaa, which at first sight stands out as a strong industrial area, but in fact it is the region with the lowest wage level and the fastest declining and ageing population. The needs of local people and the biggest problem areas have been discarded in bringing wealth out of north-east Estonia. In order to increase the income of local people and bring more jobs to the region, EUR 24 million will be contributed to the Ida-Virumaa programme in 2018-2023. I am sympathized with the one-hour vision of Estonia in the Human Development Report, which deals with the living environment in 2050. The strength of this scheme is the principle that housing development and mobility services are strongly interlinked. This ties in with the Central Party's promises to stand up for the development of free public transport. It will soon be two years after the introduction of free regional public transport, and we can actually state with certainty today that it has improved people's mobility and reduced the cost of living in the countryside. This has certainly been a constructive step forward, especially when we are talking about valuing rural areas. As governors, we must find ways to make progress in Estonia as a whole, and our people will be waiting for the next happy and safe life for a hundred years. It is also true that the tax system has a role to play in shaping public space. According to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the Estonian pay scissors are growing more and more rapidly. On this basis, the income tax reform carried out in January 2018 was also the only option, as the tax reform has left more money in the hands of people earning lower and medium wages. The more solid the foundation is the middle class of the Estonian state, the less poorer the people are among us. More will be taken from the wealthier, but they will also get more, as a progressive income tax society will become richer as a whole. A wealthy nation also means a wealthy country. How do rich and middle - class people differ from one another? One very clear difference is that a rich man is mainly focused on filling his purse and not interested in his fellow citizens. The middle - class person cares about what is happening around him, and he also speaks openly on this subject. In other words, a middle class person is financially insured; he has time, and at the same time has the sense that he is part of the weighty power of society. Therefore, if we want a strong inclusive society in Estonia, we need to move towards the development of the middle class. Still, we're not exactly where we're supposed to be. We need to make Estonia's tax system more modern and efficient and gradually move towards a progressive tax system that is used in most European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you agree with me that a decent life in rural areas must be preserved and that a broad regional policy must be put in place and advocated. We follow this principle when dealing with draft laws! After all, we all wish that life in Estonia as a whole would progress, and our people would expect the next hundred years of happiness and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U111	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Heiki Hepner Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U112	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear scientists, Ladies and gentlemen, The report 'The spatial choices of urban society' is very voluminous. Therefore, I will perhaps focus on one of the most important areas, if you could say so, the natural environment and the public good. At the same time, I also touch on other chapters. I guess they're embedded, too, and maybe making such a clear difference is a little arbitrary, just in terms of importance. Today, it is common practice that the creation of a suburban space is based on individual detailed plans, which largely override the comprehensive and coherent settlement plan of the general plan of the municipality. Suburban patterns are born in the amount of detailed plans. Of course, detailed planning not only affects the urban environment, but also has a clear impact on the natural environment. It is not rare when the pattern of the natural environment is also born in the amount of detailed plans. My increased attention was drawn to the emphasis that the aggregates of Estonian nature have deteriorated. The report highlights the claim that the rise of Estonia in terms of social indicators of human development has been achieved at a disproportionately high ecological price. Ladies and gentlemen, this has proved extremely serious. According to the EPI index, in ten years we have fallen from 26th to 48th place in the world, including from 7th to 59th place in the case of the viability of ecosystems. The latter is reflected in a complex index including climate and air pollution indicators. But I stress, however, what have been the important changes that have led us from 7 to 59th place? It should also be noted that in terms of biodiversity and habitat status, we have fallen from 17 to 24th place. The report states that, in a global comparison, the viability of ecosystems is greater in countries with a higher human development index, but the variability is high. The above, however, makes us wonder whether our natural environment would be better if the social indicators of our human development were worse. I am convinced that we cannot and must not do such contradictions. For example, the 10th place in Sweden and Finland, according to the EPI index, is shown here. As the volume of felling also came up, I cannot fail to stress once again that in Finland and Sweden, the volume of felling is at least as intense as in Estonia, which considers itself woodland, the fellings are even bigger than we do, yet their place is higher. Of course, it would be extremely important for us to receive some hints and explanations from this report on the analysis of major downward trends. This is the only way to consciously change the situation and avoid opinions from feelings. The link between the public exploitation of natural areas and democracy is the most obvious in a person's home country, if communities can meet even in a short time outside the workplace and people with mobility difficulties or other special needs can access the natural environment more easily. The right to the natural environment is also the closest to the fundamental right as part of the living environment and important issues of environmental justice... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U113	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U114	... is the equal treatment of people in the planning of the settlement space and their opportunity to participate in the planning. The issues of nature around the home, such as accessibility, quality and future prospects, are particularly amplified in settlements where many people use green areas. According to the 2017 analysis, nearly 800000 people, or about 90% of people living in densely populated areas, had very good access to the public green area in Estonia, for example, in Sweden it was 92%, in this sense we are at a relatively good level. However, a considerable number of residents of Tallinn and Tartu are not satisfied with the situation and adequacy of parks and green areas. I agree that the immediate green areas are very important, but if we forget about the hinterland, the result will be unsatisfactory. I agree that there is also a need for landscape planning that takes account of their specific characteristics in order to maintain and shape berry and mushroom sites. However, if we have cut out from the planning process the creation of new mines and nature reserves, or activities that have a very large and extensive impact, fine-tuning may yield some results, but it is clearly inadequate. The last few days have brought us a new concept: DHS. Areas of increased public interest include forests of RMK adjacent to recreational forests, dense settlements or private dwellings, which are also important for cultural heritage. It is a transitional area from an urban environment to a natural environment. Of course, these areas deserve greater attention in the planning of management, require good planning as well as good performance and, of course, good communication in particular. KAH areas can also be located in private countries. The use of these countries requires cooperation with landowners in order to agree on conditions for the provision of ecosystem services. There's nothing new about that. There is practice: the award of valuable housing contracts and Natura benefits. This can be done if you wish. I encourage both local authorities and civil servants to cooperate with landowners on this matter. A simple demand, referring to the public interest, does not produce the desired result. The largest conservation of natural areas against land use is linked to the green network, which covers more than half of Estonia's land area. Forests and meadows do not disappear because they are managed in the normal way, but because we put them under concrete and asphalt. Development pressures lead to fragmentation of the green network and conflict with the background. The Fatherland Party is convinced that the quality of the green network and of the green areas as a whole will certainly be enhanced by better planning, clarification of the legal framework, cooperation and personal contributions of everyone. This could be our goal in the coming years so that our living and natural environment not only survives, but also improves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U115	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Lauri Western Forest.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U116	Respectables! There are, to a large extent, three approaches to solving societal issues: from the position of power, i.e. through the supervision of laws, requirements, including prohibitions and orders; from the position of competition, i.e. by simply saying, the market sets out and winners are announced in the competition; in cooperation, as civil society activities, as voluntary work, as a community initiative, as social agreements. In Estonia, competition, competition and against the background of the drum have ruled for the last 30 years that the market, especially the free market economy, is the only right solution. The second extreme, or very bad experience of the totalitarian state and the Soviet regime, which was in power for the past 50 years, gave impetus to this extreme. The Human Development Report presented to us today shows that the free market and the country of prohibitions and orders have failed and will continue to fail. The creation, maintenance and development of a decent living environment can be largely based on cooperation, in which the country has the role of creating the preconditions for cooperation, where it is also necessary to restrict or guide it, and the creation of a cooperative spirit of entrepreneurship in place of an unfair desire to compete. Decreasing small towns, job losses from local areas, educational, social and security networks cut to dangerous limits, management of a devastating natural environment, and so on, all these issues may seem to be issues of some kind of narrow-field expertise. However, all of this concerns every person in Estonia. These are all questions of survival as a nation. Estonia has made progress in human development to its 30th position among the countries of the world, but has remained there. Freeze, however, is a setback. History shows that when socially, economically, but also politically and regionally, things are out of place in society, this country and its people cannot go on well. It is not a threat to foreign workers or to a busted-up mass migration drum or to finding an enemy of the people with a hoarse throat, full of endless grudges, people who are disappointed in their own country, but it is still how decent life is in Estonia. We need regional policy in every policy area, so that county centres and small towns are viable, so that the near-home school network lasts, so that a cost-effective job can be done in the area. Estonia is made to live in every city, municipality, village and settlement. Life is the people on the ground, their leisure and community activities in the local areas. We need a strong regional policy with distinctive characteristics, a stronger housing policy that promotes families and young people's choices, I would say home policy. Two or more hours a day from home to work and going back is a waste of time and a humiliation of dignity, which means that hundreds of thousands of hours of volunteer work, time for family or for themselves have disappeared. The free market has set nothing here but that man must submit to the will of the invisible hand. It's not right or fair. It is not the market that should lay down where anyone can live, but the society that still operates in the spirit of our own constitution and cooperation, the country that creates conditions, the entrepreneurship that creates new material value and the civil society that holds spiritual creativity and customs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U117	Thank you. Peeter Ernits will next speak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U118	Good manager! The last Mohicans in this hall! It's a very interesting book, every year it's very interesting, I've even ever been involved in making it myself. I remember how it was treated in previous years as such a meaningless document, including by Kadrioru. Now things have changed. But let's get to the point. We could talk about a lot of things here, but let's talk about the basics. As the esteemed professor, the chief creator, spoke here, people are moving towards prosperity. In the conditions of Estonia, there is well-being right here in Tallinn, Tartu, towns and cities. But the greater well-being is on the other side of the Gulf of Finland, Finland. Our goal should be to provide work and bread for people in our own country. This army of Kalevipoegs, who, in my opinion, has formed Estonia's 16th, Finland's county, is still attractive because of the forceful force of the last economic crisis. How do you make it less attractive? We read and heard here today that we have risen, yes, to the 30th position among the most enjoyable, welfare states, but the closest welfare state to us in Finland has put us out of the way, 12th place at turbospeed. So to think, there is. In this light, it is very difficult to bring these Kalevipoegs, our own people to Estonia and offer them the same decent life, environment and wages or wages and living environment. But let's see how Finland has achieved this. We've been talking here this week about whether lending is about the devil, and lately it seems that many people don't feel that way anymore. But it has been our position that we have been a red lantern in Europe with our 8%, but the same welfare state or our 16th county, there it is 60% and has risen even higher. So, you can't do it with your powers. We have now really begun to try to act differently as a country, not as a crutch and a flesh-killer, but still this 16th county is slipping out of the way. But where do we slip? Look, I found a great table here on page 264, commercial premises. Watch and investigate, unbelievable! Where is the highest level of trade per 1000 inhabitants in Europe? You can imagine: in Estonia, 850 square meters per 1000 inhabitants. These are shopping malls where it's good to hang out, etc. But the same Finland or Helsinki only 640 square meters. And if you look at these trends in growth across Europe, look at this table, the European average is 10%, but 25% in Estonia. Finland is also at 10%, by the way. I am not going to tell you what the situation is in Berlin or Paris. They are far behind us, and the prices there are much lower than we are, even though we have the most commercial space in Europe for every face, for me and for all of you. So what's the goal? Is there a lot of trade space?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U119	Excuse me, would the waitress like an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U120	Yeah, a few minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U121	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U122	What, though, is that purpose? The objective is not, I think, a large number of commercial premises. A good colleague, Heiki, spoke much of my report or wish, even almost literally. This is a very serious problem, at the expense of which we have actually grown to our well-being or reached that 30th place. We have achieved this at the cost of this environment, the drastic destruction and damage of ecosystems. Heiki, I'm not going to repeat you. In the verbatim, I could write a lot of that story under my name. But one more moment, spatial planning, the same green grid. You see, here's the map of Harjumaa about what should be the corridors and centers that are building up further settlements that, by the way, have recently grown dramatically, 1,000 hectares a year. But these corridors are breaking or breaking. In making new general plans, we should take very serious account of the same report that has been presented here and where much has been said about what should be done and how to make life in Estonia more decent and we really can somehow catch up with this welfare again, I repeat again to this '16th county'. This is, in fact, key to the well-being of our people, and also to the labour force, because as a result of this chain reaction, the Kalevi sons have left and it is necessary to bring more and more Gasmariiters from different countries to manage effectively, whether or not in the case of these strawberries. So, anyway, thank you again for your excellent work. We should read it more seriously and talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U123	Thank you. Next, please speak to Raimond Kaljulaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U124	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! I must admit that during this year, when I have been a member of this honourable Riigikogu, this is the best debate, for me personally, that has taken place in this Chamber. This does not mean that we do not have interesting discussions, just that this subject will probably speak to me personally most. I think it is very important that those members of the Riigikogu, who are also represented locally, take the content of this report, these conclusions to their communities, to discuss these issues with their communities. I will start with Estonia's 30th position and whether we perceive it. This finding that not everyone gets a part of Estonia's success story has actually sounded many or many times. Social scientists have spoken about the first and second Estonia. That's a long time ago. It seems to me that the most important conclusion from the point of view of this knowledge must be that the first three decades of our period of independence we have largely focused on Estonia being wealthier, and less so that this wealth is distributed fairly. It's like we've been rushing. Those who have failed to keep pace with this pace, or those who have stumbled, who have fallen, have not always helped us to come along. We haven't stopped, we haven't had the feeling that we can afford it. I think we have it now. We have come so far that we can really see that we all move forward together. This should be one of the principles for the next perhaps 30 years. Yes, we want to further enhance prosperity, yes, we need to continue building economic success, but it must also be fairer. I'm coming to the city hall now. Quote: 'Tallinn growth has been unplanned. " Of course, it sounds unbelievable. I do not complain even so much to anyone who has led Tallinn, but think about how it is possible that the growth of the capital of the Republic of Estonia, the great development has taken place without anyone directly knowingly being able to direct it or anticipate it. I would say that caring is the same crisis as what we just had. It's just that it's happening for a long time, and we don't sense it so keenly. We don't announce an emergency situation, and we don't make a press conference every day where we look at the caring numbers, the way we looked at the virus, what was it? The coefficient of infection. But actually we should, actually we should. Caring is just as crisis as the corona virus was. Now for fixing what we have. Having been in contact with Tallinn, the capital of Estonia, I will tell you some facts. More than 60% of last year's road investments went to the construction of a completely new street. Over 60% went to the construction of a completely new street, with the driver passing 868 metres from point A to point B on this street. 60% of tea investment! At the same time, the capital of the Republic of Estonia spends less than five years on maintaining and repairing existing roads, improving road holes, improving people's home streets. Less than five years ago! The city budget has increased by 200 million during this period. Unbelievable numbers. Re-use. I was told by a construction company how they ordered a municipality in Estonia and replaced new plastic windows that were fully operational in kindergarten, because it was necessary to do so in order to obtain some kind of European environmental money. There was also a need to replace the windows, which was when they got completely the same windows. Taken out of the way and just put in new ones. The same entrepreneur told us how they broke down a fully functional and orderly staircase in another building renovated in the municipality of Estonia, as the project envisaged the construction of a new staircase. And so on. With regard to municipal apartments in Tallinn, the city has now taken the direction that single housing must be abandoned and people in need of municipal or social housing must be concentrated in separate buildings that the city is building. But actually, when we read this report, we see that we should reverse this direction right now, because we just need these people to live scattered. I'm asking for more time, if you don't mind!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U125	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, my colleague, Urve Tiidus, is not presently in the hall, it was, in my opinion, a very correct question: is there anything that can be done so that we can somehow reverse these processes? I think that the very important direction and keyword here is the digitisation of education and also of healthcare. Let me give you a very simple example of life. If I wanted to move to Kõpu peninsula in Hiiumaa, and I have this knowledge that one day you could have children in your family, then I should also accept that children go to school 45 minutes [trip] away in Kärdla. But if there was any way to arrange school life so that at least at the senior level they wouldn't go there five days a week and I wouldn't have to drive them five days a week for an hour and a half a day, but, for example, two days a week or one day a week, I might be thinking about going to Kõpu Peninsula. To my colleague, the West Forest, I asked about taxes. I'm a new person in the Riigikogu, and I don't know, maybe there's been a lot of talk about it. But in the Human Development Report, I read, if I'm not mistaken, I think I'm saying that 5% of people in Estonia have two homes: one is located somewhere outside the city and the other is located in the city. Perhaps these 5% of people could also have the opportunity to share their personal income tax and tax money between their municipalities. That could be an interesting idea. If a person still has two homes and the other one is located in a rural area, why can't he direct part of his tax money to the development of that rural area? Doesn't he use the roads, infrastructure, library of this municipality when he's in another home? For example, when I'm resting in Hiiumaa, I use Kärdla's library. If I had a real summer home there, permanently, I'd be happy to give some of my tax money to make this library collection even better. Colleagues Networker was talking about bike paths. A very important thing, in my opinion, is the role model. For example, the chairman of a good colleague of the network ship party is Kaja Kallas. Every time I come with a bike, I see that Kaja parkes a bike the same way here in the courtyard of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu's courtyard is allowed to be parked, as I understand it, by some high-ranking Riigikogu members, committee chairmen and such superiors. But I would make sure that the courtyard of the Riigikogu is only for those who come on a bicycle. Look, that would be a role model. That would be something to talk about from the point of view of promoting cycling. Last thing, the debate room. I'm done with that. I think our own vice-president, Siim Kallas, said exceptionally well in a recent interview with Estonian National Broadcasting about the fact that too often we come and read our previously prepared statement here in the Riigikogu and then the press representatives send it out and it feels like the day's work has been done. But Kallas said that we should listen more to our colleagues, listen to what they are saying, and respond to what the previous speaker said to have a real dialogue in this Chamber as well. I think that's important too. So thank you. I really thank the authors of this report. In general, human development reports have changed the minds of decision-makers, and I believe that this book will also change. Thank you so much! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U127	Thank you. I'll have Andres Metsoja next. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U128	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear reporters, colleagues, guests! Indeed, it has been a good feeling to have taken part in two important debates on a national issue in this Chamber this week. One was initiated by the Special Committee on State Budget Control and today the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has launched. Thank you very much to these committees. Indeed, it has seemed somehow that Parliament's work has gone into this kind of operational management, that all the time we are quickly solving some of the issues and that we are not able to deal with what we have chosen and set, perhaps, one country's strategic issues. This report will certainly give every Member and every company leader, I think, also the head of local government and citizen in Estonia, the opportunity to think once again about their strategic choices, to try to consider the choices we face as a state and a nation. I drive a lot between town and land, too. I have to admit, although this driving is troublesome, I never regret those mornings when I get up in my country home. Never! It's definitely a part of my life I don't want to give away. It's a matter of value. I'd rather not even philosophize today whether this driving is bad or good. Unfortunately, life is something that needs to be moved. But the special situation that we've been through showed a lot that maybe we're living in a world of Stamps, and we think that's how we're used to it. Life shows that it can be different. But otherwise, only if the state makes strategic choices, or builds critical infrastructure. It has already been said today that the development of the digital state as a whole, I dare say, has reached a divided situation where, at a certain point in time, people living in rural areas do not get a part of this digital state as it is, because associations simply do not allow it. We have talked for a very long time about the fact that we could reach a road from the society of object roads in Estonia, the road that is built as a gravel road, and it is still meant for economic activity in the region, not for people to move there every day to black-coated roads. Unfortunately, there is still a very long way to go, and there is already a new problem, that is, the same issue of communications networks. After all, we often hear in this Chamber that 15 million have gone back to solving these problems in times of crisis. But I'm sorry, these problems aren't solved by the campaign. To this end, the State must have a strategic understanding, a strategic financing plan. All these activities are planned, they take time, they concern land transfer issues. It's a little saddening that we're trying to make them a winning job, but a person doesn't even have to say that in a distant village, but quite close to the center, he says, "Hey, there was a talk, but when will you finally get that chance? I'm willing to pay for it, but it's still out of reach. ' After all, the problem is that we talk little about the objectives and focus on the instrument. The instrument takes most of the energy, and the goal somehow disappears into the night. Having been a long-standing mayor and looking at this spatial development... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U129	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U130	... and these spatial development problems up to today, in fact, looking at Jaak Aabi's decision in the context of Rail Baltic, it makes me very sad that we often, in the context of planning, increasingly rely on legalism, we do not generally go alone. I thought it was quite a good article from specialists in the field last week in Sirb, where it was said that the idea of planning was to go through a general framework and then try to agree on an individual level, at the level of an individual subject. But, unfortunately, we continue to live in a society where the general plans of local governments are at such a level that they are ten years ago. Now, in the context of administrative reform, fortunately, I understand that the work is on. But I was always faced with a problem in the land-parent period that they had to change the overall plan with a detailed plan. That's very eloquent. It is actually endlessly eloquent when we change a large whole with one detail, which is as if agreed, but which is from the poorest and cannot be renewed. Perhaps this is one of the serious problems of the Estonian state. We need to be brave to think bigger, but we must not drown in operational plans, so we will throw out the big whole thing that's been invented with the washing water. I think this is one of the key issues of the Estonian state. The key issue is to trust more widely those agreements that will be reached, be they planning, be they funding schemes, be they objectives and resources. If we can do this, we'll last long and long. I, too, thank the workers once again. We actually hope that the work you have done will be written in the future of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U131	Thank you. The clock is approaching the usual time of the end of our sitting; we must put the vote on the extension of today's debate. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the vote? The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed extending the duration of the sitting and the negotiations until 14 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a stand and vote on this proposal. There are 15 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no respondents and no abstentions. The meeting has been extended. Next, I'm gonna ask for a speech chair in Hele Everau. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U132	First of all, I'm sorry you had to vote. But that's it. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for everything that has been here: a great deal of work has been done with the report and, of course, there were presentations, very constructive questions and discussion. I certainly don't abuse your time. I just kind of thought there were a few things I'd like to say. You see, the time we've been living in for the last three months and maybe we still have to live, has brought us hopefully to the understanding that we are all, each of us is, and we are also part of nature together. Our cities are also part of nature. Everything that's happening to us is actually from nature. We can understand that because we live in cities as large as we live in Estonia (not the way it is in the great cities of America), this virus became the hero that it has been because there are so many of us in the city together. It's not a vice, of course, we can't be any different, but somehow we forget what this city's living, being and doing is on. It stays on what's outside the city. What works well in Tallinn and Tartu remains in the farthest corner of Estonia and in every village, in every forest, in every human form. It's not like we get milk from the store and what we carry, we get from the store, and what we eat comes from the store. After all, this is a long-known truth: the strength of one country is based on what is happening in the farthest corner of its country. As long as we do not understand this as responsible, the shift in balance in one direction will be too much, over and over again. I would like us all to think about who we are, where we come from and what the values our country maintains. These are people in all places and it must be good to live in every place in Estonia. Then we'll have a good time in town. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U133	Thank you. Next, I'd like Leo Kunnas's speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still present! My idea of speaking today was completely spontaneous. Of course, I would like to thank you immediately for the good presentations and particularly for the thorough handling of the urban space. I myself would actually like to address the same urban space from a completely different or unexpected point of view, which has not been done in this Chamber today. This is a military aspect of this space. If we can see that more and more people are concentrating here in the Suur-Tallinn space, there is a great deal of key infrastructure here, and there is all our leadership here, then we should think more about what the defence meaning of this space is and what we should perhaps do more to protect this space. Of course, we never have too much money or too much resources, but let's think about what happens when this city space is simply destroyed, it will be destroyed in the course of a war, which will of course involve a great many civilian casualties. We should think about it a little bit, and think about it in the key to what we need to do to make sure it doesn't happen. Perhaps some small investments and efforts, which in some cases may not be so small, would be very relevant. If we analyse potential warfare, we will see that the first threat to this same infrastructure and to the entire Suur-Tallinn space comes from the air. Without a potential opponent getting here at all, this room can be crushed by air strikes. This is where we see that we need anti-aircraft, an air defense that can protect this room, so it's not just torn apart. Here we come to whether it would be reasonable for us to invest in midland anti-aircraft, yes, more than 100 million, 200 million. If we compare it to the damage that would occur if this room were simply to be crushed, I'm not talking about human casualties at all, then of course this amount, a few hundred million, is going to settle in a completely different context. Just what do we put in compared to what damage we can bear? The same question also concerns mine-watering and coastal protection. If a potential opponent can get off not only in the port of Tallinn, but also in Paldiski or Muuga simply from the landing ships or ro-ro vessels, then we have to start fighting automatics and machine guns. If this happens, then, of course, the same urban space will again be crushed and killed by people, civilians. We should also see here that the investment we put in is incomparably small compared to the damage we should suffer in the event of war. In this context, we should think more broadly about what to do so that the potential enemy does not reach the Suur-Tallinn space. It should be our political will or goal to build our national defence and defence forces so that no military action is carried here at all, that any potential enemy is intimidated, that war does not come, or that war is stopped before it gets here. Because it is inevitable that when military action gets here (as shown by RAND Corporation's analysis, when they played with ten teams through potential warfare), unfortunately, in our current state, the potential enemy will be here within a certain number of hours and hours, which is absolutely not our wish. Our wish is the opposite, so that this does not happen. In that case, we should really think about it... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U135	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U136	... how to build such a defence so that the same room here will not be put at risk at all so that we can essentially stop a potential opponent before it happens, as we were able to in the War of Independence. The problem is basically exactly the same as then. It is actually such a big question that we should consider everything that has taken place in our room and what is happening in our room for the next few decades, which we are building here in the big-tallinn room, how many people are concentrating here. We should also determine politically that our national defence is structured in such a way that the potential enemy simply does not get here and we will not allow this space to be simply destroyed. This damage is simply immeasurable compared to those costs, which are not small, which we should implement in order to avoid it. Thank you! That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-11_U137	Thank you. There's no more calls. I thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for organising the debate on today's key national issue. I would like to thank the honourable guests Helen Sooväli-Sepping, Indrek Ibrus and all the good colleagues for their very interesting, very constructive presentations and speeches. Today's session and debate are closed. Thanks again and have a nice day! Closure of the sitting at 1.05 p.m.
