ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the start of a new working week. I am glad to see that many of us wear masks. Especially in view of the large number of people infected, we all have reason to follow this example and set a good example for the people of Estonia, so that everyone can do what they can to stop this corona apandemia. We will go to the Monday session of the 7th working week of today's IV plenary session. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to hand over a motion of distrust to Minister of Finance Martin Helme. The signatories to the appeal are confident that as a member of Martin Helme's government, they have been determined to undermine Estonia's security, international reputation and ally relations that are important to us. Martin Helme has also questioned the credibility of the Estonian elections and the independence of the democratic institutions of Estonia, and has deliberately planted distrust in the fundamentals of the functioning of Estonia as a democratic state. Martin Helme has also dealt with the division of society and has attacked various social groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U3	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee wishes to initiate a draft law amending the Financial Management Act of the local government unit. It amends the Law on the financial management of the local government unit in order to enable local authorities to increase the net debt burden between 2020 and 2027 in order to allow local authorities to take the maximum net debt burden laid down in the Act without prejudice to the economic downturn caused by the spread of the Coronavirus disease COVID-19 in the context of slowing down of income growth for investment and economic recovery. The Act sets the maximum net debt burden as an exception for the years 2020 and 2021 at ten times the result of the core business or 80% of the revenues of the core business. The economic recovery is expected to take longer than expected in spring. Once local authorities have made use of the possibility of increasing the debt ratio to a maximum of 80%, it is not possible to expect that net debt will fall rapidly over one year to 60% of core business revenues, in particular in the context of a slow increase in budget revenues. In order to allow a smooth reduction of the net debt burden, a gradual reduction of the cap is foreseen between 2025 and 2027. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U5	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to hand over the draft law amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. The aim of the draft amendment to this law is to prevent Estonian Public Broadcasting from ignoring the principle of political balance in the production and transmission of its programmes or programmes by favouring one party or political movement to another. The draft also amends the internal control procedures to ensure compliance with legal requirements. In addition to the above, the Estonian National Broadcasting Act is brought into line with the Commercial Code and with the rights, obligations and responsibilities of members of the Supervisory Board and members of the Management Board. Right now, it's full of shit. The amendments to the draft act have been based on the Broadcasting Act in force until 31 December 2006, so it is not a muzzle, as you may now be speaking. I, a member of the Riigikogu Kalle Grünthal of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, have prepared the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U7	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U8	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Land Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act. And thirdly, in order to prevent tax base erosion and profit shifting, the draft law amending the Act on ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures Relating to Tax Treaties. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme when these two draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. All three drafts have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted five drafts and one motion of distrust. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Next, we'll run a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U10	95 members of the Riigikogu are present and no 6. Now we come to this week's agenda. We need to make some adjustments here before we can confirm that. In agreement with the representatives of the heirs, the response to Question No 41 scheduled for the third item today is postponed, so this item is not on today's agenda. Together with this amendment, I will vote on the approval of the agenda for the 7th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U11	89 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda and there are no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U12	Today's first item is the second reading of Bill 252 on Amending the State Budget Act 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to speak here as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U13	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the State Budget Act 2020 at its meeting on 27 October and 4 November. According to § 43 of the State Budget Act, the Government of the Republic may initiate a draft law amending the state budget no later than two months before the end of the financial year, without changing the total budget. Given that the National Budget Act 2020 has been drafted last autumn and some funding needs have changed, it is appropriate to initiate a change in the state budget in order to achieve the objectives set by the public authorities more effectively. By the deadline for submitting amendments, including by 5.15 p.m. on 28 October, a proposal was received from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, which was not supported by the Commission. The Finance Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry, drew up two amendments specifying the costs and added a proposal to put the draft into effect the day after the publication in the State's Official Journal. Explanations of the amendments are given in the list of amendments to the proposals. A few words from the Reform Party's proposal for improvement. It cannot be said that the Commission did not support it in principle, but that the Commission considered that this amount could be much higher. We talked about 12 million, and we also agreed that if the government does not make such a proposal, the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu will do so between second and third readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U14	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, you will all have the opportunity to put up to two questions to the rapporteur, the length of which is one minute. The first question is Taavi in the garment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U15	Thank you. Although, in late spring, summer and early autumn, all the issues that have affected the resources available in this year's budget to deal with the Coronary Apandemia have largely received the same answer that the money is sufficient and the preparedness is sufficient, last week, when the [infection] numbers started to go up, the Head of Emergency at the Health Board, Arkadi Popov, said that the situation was so serious that hospitals might be missing. While understanding that the government has now been working on other pressing issues, including the resolution of international relations, I wonder whether there has been time to pay attention and also to consider whether there is enough money in this year's budget to sustain the autumn, or whether there is a risk that there is a lack of money in some places.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U16	Thank you, Tavi, for a good question. At the moment, the government reserves together with the COVID reserve and the state budget for the year amount to some 130 million euros. So we should be able to survive the last two months of this year, and there should be no problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U17	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U18	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! As we know, this year's budget, which we are now adjusting for the second time, was made before the crisis and still with a proper increase in revenue. During the first additional budget procedure in spring, there was also talk in the Isamaa about some sort of cut-off matter. And I took out that verbogram because I remember, I asked you how the cut budget was. Now that the other extra budget we have on this table, I didn't find any of those cuts here. At that time, you answered me this way: "I can only tell you that, perhaps two weeks ago, at the meeting of the government where I attended, the government's obligation to discuss the measures of the cut during the second quarter was recorded at my request and could then start implementing them. " I now have a specific question: When and where can we see these cuts?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U19	Thank you, Aivar, for a good question. This question should, of course, be put to the members of the government. I was a guest at a government hearing, and I really did make that request, and it was recorded. And I know the government was discussing this about Midsummer Day. In the budget for next year, all ministries will have reduced their economic costs by 1.7%. Of course, if you ask me if that's enough, I'll say that this number is very small, summing up is the order of 10 million. At the same time, all this money will be invested in IT solutions in the same areas that have been lagging behind in financial terms over the years. At the time of the next year's budget, this issue was under discussion, and it was also agreed that financial savings should be in place for the spring RES debate. When we talk about the state budget for 2022, there must also be places where there will be savings. At this point in the economic downturn, if we started to cut wages, the revenue base and people's well-being would be reduced. In terms of investment, too, it can be said that as the private sector withdraws its investment, the public sector should, wherever possible, sustain the economy with its investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U20	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Did I understand correctly that if the proposal by the Reform Party Group to make good damage to strawberry growers was proposed to allocate nearly 4.8 million from the government reserve, then you would have wanted to give more money to the strawberry grower?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U22	Thank you. Urmas, you didn't quite get it right. No, I never said that. No, I have never said that we have talked about the fact that strawberry growers should have a grant of EUR 12 million. We talked about the fact that there are a lot of other areas, apart from strawberry growers, that are in difficulty throughout the agricultural sector. The dairy sector is in a difficult situation because the price of milk, as we know, has fallen from mid-April this year to the level of selling with or without zero. We know that cattle and pig farmers are in difficulty. We know that organic growers have not had the easiest time this year either. We therefore had a very clear understanding in the Commission's debate that five million of this amount, which I have been talking about before, is not enough. The proposals came not only from one member of the Riigikogu, but from several so that this amount could be at least 12 million. The Minister of Rural Affairs will make his distribution and let us know how he sees it so that we can then discuss it in the Riigikogu. The Commission's proposal is that it will be dealt with between the second and third readings of the amendments to the 2020 Budget Act. The government always has the right to make such decisions directly from its reserve of government, but we in the Commission wanted it to come to the debate in the large hall so that the members of the Riigikogu could also express their opinion on what kind of agricultural sector the amount of resources should go into.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U23	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U24	Thank you. I will continue on the subject of preparedness for the Coronary Apandemia. For me, it is when Arkadi Popov says that the Estonian state may not be ready enough for the current wave, a very serious alarm bell. It really isn't comforting to say that the government has money in reserve or that the government has borrowed money in that reserve. My question is: would you be willing to make any further changes this year so that this money from that reserve can be used in such a way that we are better prepared for the corona apandemia? Or do you think that absolutely everything is possible is done and that nothing more can be done to make Estonia better prepared for dealing with the virus and possible new cases of hospital?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U25	Thank you, Javier, for the clarification. Certainly not everything is done to ensure that the country is in an ideal position and ready to fight and compete with coronavir. There are, of course, many more things to do, many things to be done. At the same time, I must stress that the state also has the capacity to borrow more if necessary. If we know that, in the case of an additional budget, we gave the government the opportunity to borrow a loan of the size of five billion, then now a little more than half of this amount has been taken. So the state has the capacity to act, and if there is a need for the Riigikogu to make a decision or to resolve something quickly, then I think that all 101 members of the Riigikogu are also prepared to make any additional budget decisions. But if you look at the financial part that the government currently has to use and command, there are opportunities. The following decisions will certainly come tomorrow: the Coronal Commission will sit together in the morning and make further decisions. Clearly, the current situation requires urgent and decisive action.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U26	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U27	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am just asking about the issue of preventing the spread of the virus. In this year's budget, the balance of the Government's reserve is indeed over EUR 100 million. Could tomorrow's decisions also include funding for the first days of sickness? We're in a situation where there are workplace sites and the virus is really spreading rapidly. In the spring, both the simple taking of the sick list and the compensation for their first day could still have had an effect and people stayed at home. How's the fall now? Personally, do you think that part of this reserve could be quickly redirected to cover the sick leave?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U28	Thank you. The correct answer would be that we did not discuss this in the Commission. However, since you asked for my personal opinion, I say that in a situation like the one we had in spring, we made this decision for two months. If there is a similar need, then such a decision should certainly be made again. Now the question is simply that in spring, when you noticed, the day that the decision was made or came into force, this Monday and the next day, Tuesday, to be honest, a lot of abuses, i.e. the blue page also left those who were not really sick, they just didn't want to go to work in this environment. This was likely to contribute to the absence of an increase in virus spread. However, if, for example, a few pharmacies do not have many employees to serve tomorrow, then there may be a reverse situation, and where medical supplies are needed, things are bad. If you ask for my personal opinion, my opinion is that payment could start from another day, that there wouldn't be such an attitude that if Monday wasn't the best day, then I wouldn't go to work. Maybe a person still needs to think things through before he takes that blue leaf.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U29	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. My question concerns Amendment 2, namely the referral of EUR 200000 to the Ministry of Culture, so that they can support more concert organisers, music collectives, performers and support services. Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs say if this EUR 200000 would help? Or how much is left unsatisfied despite this small injection of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U31	Thank you, Urve, for a good question. The honest answer is that there is no shortage of hundreds of thousands or millions in the tourism sector, but there are tens of millions and there are hundreds of millions to talk about if you want to support the whole sector so that they can withstand in full until next summer. We do not even know what the situation is next summer, what the situation is really like on the market, and how the spread of the virus is at that point, whether we have vaccines, whether all have been vaccinated, etc. But this is the amount that has been requested by the Ministry of Culture and which has been under the Ministry of Economic Affairs to support the tourism sector. Since this area was all under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it is awarded to the Ministry of Culture, who actually deals with this area every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U32	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question was driven by your speech, where you indicated that this proposal was too small, and that is why you decided to propose 12 million in the future. You actually tied it to the strawberry growers. Can I now read from your reply that my proposal to grant EUR 15.2 million in support of the new agricultural sector, equivalent to transitional support, could also receive support in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U34	Thank you. The honest answer is that we are now talking about this year's agricultural difficulties in relation to the corona and the economic downturn to support the agricultural sectors this year. We are not talking about top-up in this response, nor about next year's measures. We are currently talking about 2020 and the amendments to this budget. To be honest with your answer, I say we talk about it. We are not talking here about agricultural subsidies and the amount of possible subsidies for next year's budget. At the moment, there are resources in the government reserve, and we had a consensus within the Commission that agriculture should be supported. We did not share any euro between the areas within the sector. We certainly want this issue to be discussed when it comes to our committee. Our request is for the Minister of Rural Affairs to propose who deals with it every day. Whether the members of the Riigikogu like it or not, I stress that the government is always entitled to make decisions on the allocation of money from the government reserve at its own session. Will it come to the Riigikogu? That would make sense in budgetary discussions, but the government has the right to make that decision itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U35	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no more questions for you, but we will open negotiations and all members of the Riigikogu can take the floor. As usual, call from remote control for 5 + 3 minutes or from position for 2 minutes. I'm asking for Aivar Sõerdi in this chair. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make a brief comment on that. Since the agenda is long, I will be brief. This current supplementary budget, or the draft law amending the budget, must be seen in the context of this additional spring budget, which was considerably larger. If you remember, at the beginning of April, the Prime Minister came here before us and declared that the government had approved an additional budget of EUR 2.6 billion in measures. Thus, the government's contribution was shown to be as high as possible. What's the reality? The reality is what we got an overview of in the Committee on Monetary Affairs at the end of October. From the package of KredEx measures, which was the largest in the supplementary budget, the funding made available to businesses under the KredEx measures is only EUR 356 million. The unemployment fund measure is implemented at the earliest, it is 250 million. There were other things, but 2.6 billion is definitely not coming together. So they were embellished and misled. Secondly, of course, I would like to remind you that when we dealt with this extra budget here, the forecast was that the economic downturn this year would be 8%. Unemployment would also have to be significantly higher than it really is. However, the crisis remained much less severe, with tax revenues being better received, but the budget deficit is unprecedented. And there is also a very specific reason for this: this year's state budget was made at good times when there was no mention of the crisis. The costs of government institutions continued to increase at a very rapid pace. Even a cut in the costs of authorised ministries, even symbolic, because aircraft are not flying, no events are taking place and no missions have been made, even though this was promised in spring. The chairman of the Monetary Commission, who was on this board, started to say something about cuts in the budget for next year by 1.7%. It's not really in the state budget, but it's somewhere between the lines. As we know, this too was simply directed from one line to another line in the Ministry, to the so-called IT cost line in the economic cost line. So at a time when the private sector withdrew its costs, at least in those sectors that were hit by the crisis, the public sector did not do so. The result is, we have a huge budget deficit, also next year, one of the biggest in comparison with the other countries of the European Union. The chairman of the Monetary Commission here said that expenditure was not cut because the government felt that investment had to intervene. Look at this extra budget, which was here in April, there are no investments. It's 15 million in broadband development and 20 million in road construction, well, it's kind of a fly next to the loan billions. So the loan money is still going to pay for the running costs of the public sector, the wage increases and other forms of defamation. The whole current government's talk on finance issues is just one big distraction and embellishment of the actual state of public finances with lies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U37	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We go to the amendments, there are four in total. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is the position of the commission of directors to take full account of. The second amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. The third amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, is the proposal of the commission to disregard it. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U38	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U39	Let us put this amendment to the vote. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I will vote on the amendment tabled by the Reform Party Group, which the commission of the executive has rejected. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U40	There are 42 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 48 against and 2 abstentions. The motion has been rejected. The following is proposal No 4 presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the position of the commission is to take this fully into account. We have examined all the amendments. The Governing Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 252. Second reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 16 November at 3 p.m. We received a motion of censure at the beginning of the sitting, it has been forwarded to the government, and it has been proposed by the government to discuss it at the earliest opportunity in today's sitting. I'll announce the chairman's break, 20 minutes, and we'll discuss it with the board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U41	Dear Riigikogu, the intermission is over. The Government of the Republic wishes to discuss the written request of 34 members of the Riigikogu "Publication of trust in finance Minister Martin Helme" in today's session. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (2) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I have added this requirement to the agenda of today's sitting to the discussion. This will take place as a second item on the agenda. The complainant reads the application, it is reproduced and available to all members of the Riigikogu on both sides at the back of the hall. I'd like to introduce you to the procedure for processing a motion of distrust. First of all, the motion of a representative of the censure performers is up to 20 minutes. This will be followed by the Minister of Finance's speech, as well as for up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two questions to the Minister. After that, the political groups will negotiate. The first to be heard is the representative of the group whose members have initiated a vote of distrust. As usual, call length is five plus three minutes. There will be a final vote, which will be public. The Minister has been distrusted if the majority of the Riigikogu is in favour of the publication of censure. I'd like a representative of the motion of censure. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I look at the clock: 4:03 p.m. The last verbal attack on Estonia's security and democratic regime by Minister of Finance Martin Helme has already been more than 24 hours, but the Minister is still in office. True, under pressure from the opposition, Minister of the Interior Mart Helme has resigned. But Martin Helme, using exactly the same rhetoric, is still in office. That's too bad! The Republic of Estonia and our citizens deserve honest, caring and dignified government from every minister and government as a whole. A zero tolerance must be established to break Estonia's democratic institutions and foreign and security policy. The authors of this motion of censure are convinced that Minister of Finance Martin Helme, as a member of the government, has been determined to undermine Estonia's security, international reputation and allied relations that are important to us. As Minister of Finance, Martin Helme has called into question the credibility of the Estonian elections and the independence of the democratic institutions of Estonia, and has deliberately planted distrust in the fundamentals of the functioning of Estonia as a democratic state. Martin Helme has also dealt with the division of society and has attacked various minority groups in society. But let's focus on the most important thing today. On Saturday, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas made an entry in his Twitter account, congratulating Joe Biden and Kamala Harris on their election victory. I quote: "The United States continues to be an important ally and a close friend to Estonia. I look to the future to continue our strong cooperation with the United States. " The wheel made this statement at the same time as many of the heads of the democratic world, without waiting for Donald Trump's decision to withdraw. That was the right move. Unfortunately, it quickly became clear that Ratas didn't speak on behalf of the entire government. The two ministers of the EKRE yesterday showed how the mistrust of the Prime Minister is manifested in their actions. I am embarrassed, but in the interests of clarity and protocol I am forced to quote Martin and Mart Helme's statements yesterday, which had reached the columns of both Washington Post and several other international publications in a few hours. Speaking about the Presidential elections in the United States, the Chairman of the EKRE and Finance Minister Martin Helme said in Tre's radio station "Let's talk about the matter" that there is no question that these elections are counterfeit: "You don't have the point of talking about some kind of democracy or the rule of law if the elections can be so vulgar, so blatantly and so massively faked. If this works, if Trump gets taken out of power, the American constitution will no longer be in force. The President shall be elected by an in-depth state. In the United States, there is no freedom or democracy." Shortly thereafter, Mart Helme continued: "The European Union is a self-cooling phenomenon, sadistically, masochisticly self-cooling. And now the same Kamala Harris and Joe Bidens was no longer understood by Joe Biden, these people are taking America into exactly the same Masochistic state of self-righteousness. " Martin Helme, who was elected president, said of Joe Biden and his son: "But I still wanted to say about the Bidens that Hunter Biden, of course, yes, is busy using drugs and Ukrainian prostitutes, but his main activity was still at the time when his father was vice president, and while Hillary Clinton was State Secretary, it was to mediate massive, large, million or ten million transactions with the Chinese and Biden families and with the Russian and Biden families and with the Ukrainian and Biden families, as well as with Arabs. So the Biden family, let's say, the pattern of public service has been to get money from America's strategic opponents. What will such people do when they receive the presidency?" And Mart Helme concluded: "What is the logic of the deep state? The logic of the deep state is to plant scumbags, corrupt, blackmailed scumbags everywhere in order to guarantee its own freedom of action. Yeah, Joe Biden and Hunter Biden are corrupt types." Ladies and gentlemen, If it has not yet come to anyone's attention that the current Estonian Government has at least two conflicting foreign policies that are disastrous to our security, the comments made yesterday by Mart and Martin Helme should put a fat point to all the doubts we have had. In no way does Prime Minister Jüri Ratas' admonition that Helmed must immediately stop undermining relations between Estonia and the US sound credible, nor the opinion of Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu, as if ministers Helmed did not represent the attitude of the government in their positions. These opinions are unfortunately trivial on the ground that the leaders of coalition parties agreed only on 22 October that no human dignity would be humiliated, no one would be attacked, no one would be attacked, no one would be insulting and threatening rhetoric and behaviour. And I believe that this applies not only to Estonia's internal politics, but also to our allies, to the people as a whole. I don't think it's gonna help any more cake or bouquets. In a precedent manner, Estonia's former prime ministers, including Mart Laar, the Honorary Chairman of the Fatherland, made a joint statement in which they stressed, among other things: "Estonia cannot afford several foreign policies. The statements made by the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance cannot be separated from the position of the government. The democratically elected President of the United States is attacked by absurd accusations based on conspiracy theories, and without any evidence, the relations between Estonia and the United States may be broken, which needs to be improved for decades. Politicians who do not share the shared understanding of democracy, free elections and allied relations between the United States and Estonia and who do not care about the decades of determined work of Estonian people in the name of these relations cannot have a place in the government of the Republic of Estonia." Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia's foreign policy focuses on the protection of human rights, the rule of law and minorities. By attacking the general principles of liberal democracy alongside Estonia's foreign policy course and calling for a decision on minority rights through a referendum, the Minister of Finance is also seriously undermining the credibility of the Republic of Estonia as a democratic rule of law in the eyes of the European Union and NATO's allies. The EKRE, led by Martin Helme, unfortunately places us eastwards from the West, and we have no reason to expect unconditional support from our allies. How does it work? But please: Joe Biden is a scumbag and corrupt type, Vladimir Putin is an effective pharmacist. As a member of the government, Martin Helme has repeatedly enmityd various groups of Estonian society, questioned, as we have seen, the fundamentals of Estonia's foreign policy and security policy, and undermined the credibility of Estonian constitutional institutions. As a democratic small country, Estonia cannot have double standards, including universal human rights or the rule of law. Yes, there may be consequences in elections, but Estonian elections do not change the nature of universal human rights or the rule of law. Human rights are not ideology, they are universal and apply to everyone. While the domestic policy of a small country overwhelms the continuity of foreign policy and blurs the international image of the country, it poses a threat to the security of the country as a whole in a geopolitically seismic area. Estonia needs smart and reliable diplomacy at all times, because we simply need allies to survive. Domestic storm winds and the polarisation of society have become a common phenomenon in democratic countries in recent years. Unfortunately, Estonia, which many recently considered immune to this exhausting divisional activity, is no longer an exception. Although it is possible to read from the foreign policy development plan approved by the government that the expansion of a space of values that respects human rights, democracy and the rule of law and the promotion of international law are one of the priorities of Estonian foreign policy, in this case, Martin Helme's baseless and inappropriate verbal attacks are working against this goal. In addition to specific foreign policy decisions, Estonia's international position is also influenced by how we fit our national attitudes and values among our allies. President Kersti Kaljulaid is right when he says: "The survival of a small country, especially in a geopolitically active region, depends very much on how many partners and allies we have and how they see us as either similar or different." There are plenty of Western countries who still believe in the negative impact of NATO and the enlargement of the European Union in their relations with Russia. They consider that the accession countries, including Estonia, were not as if ripe for accession, are alienating the Western value area and are, as if, damaging the legitimate interests of Russia. The dangerously fragile foreign policy of the current Estonian government is suitable for them, as it will confirm their thinking structures. In a real-political world, at one point, it could be painfully avenging us. Finally, I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Fatherland, who is not present in this Chamber, but I am sure you will listen. Similarly, no one from the Centre Party will be seen in the hall, but you will probably hear these words. Our views may not coincide on many issues, but in foreign and security policy we have been on the same foot for 30 years. It has brought invaluable benefits to our small country and a secure living environment for our citizens. Our common mantra has been to be united for Estonia in the world. Our foreign policy has spoken with one voice. Now it's not like that, and it's very dangerous for all of us. Do not let our country break down and support the mistrust of Martin Helme! Honestly, the cup is full, actually a long time ago. Estonia deserves better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U43	Thank you. Next, please speak to Secretary of Finance Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U44	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Yeah, well, we were just here. Another fictional, empty scandal trying to overthrow this government. What can I tell you? Show me your worst, Mordor! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U45	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask the Minister up to two questions and the length of the question is one minute. The first question is Taavi in the garment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U46	Thank you. The nomination of the Republic of Estonia's Parliament as Mordor alone would, of course, deserve to be distrusted by the Minister. But I offer you the opportunity to deeply regret everything you said yesterday on the radio about Estonia's most important ally, the United States, democracy there and the elected President. I also offer you the opportunity to unequivocally condemn what Mart Helme said in this very show. Please, here's your chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U47	Thank you so much for your generous opportunity. Pass.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U48	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U49	Thank you. But then try wider. The ideal of Estonian nationalism has traditionally been to remain itself and also to belong to Europe. You, your party and your family have the impression that you have long since been unfamiliar with Europe, but you are no longer well suited to America. But you are undoubtedly satisfied with the Kremlin, admiring the accuracy, effectiveness, personally admiring Putin, disparaging the sanctions. How do these two things stand together, how can your worldview and nationalism be described more widely?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U50	Thank you. It's impossible for me to comment on your crazy fantasies. I have not had such views.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U51	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U52	Thank you. Yesterday, you and your father were on a radio show and presented common positions, at least that's how I read this radio broadcast in a verbatim. My question is: if your father decided to resign, which of your father's statements did you disagree with, so Mart Helme had to resign, but you did not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U53	Thank you. Mart decided to resign to come here and bully you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U54	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Today you were already up here in the Riigikogu Hall on the balcony before the opening of the hearing and you looked at what was going on here. I got the impression that you were here, or that you actually somehow expected what was going on here. My question is, do you feel that you have said things wrong and acted?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U56	Right! Of course, it is clear that for the Reform Party and, more generally, for the forces you represent, any trivial excuse for attacking today's government with an axe, a lever and a flamethrower is sufficient. In the end, what difference does it make to you whether it is Mart or Martin, to whom you vote to express mistrust? We'll probably get to George's mistrust because you need to get rid of this government. There's always a reason why there's no reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U57	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U58	Thank you. Minister Helme! I have already wondered here in the Chamber of Riigikogu why, as a capable politician, you are able to empower this capacity with ragling. Today, Raul Rebane writes quite the right things in his article and quotes Nassim Taleb, who has said: "The heroes are not made by accomplishments but by conduct. " I agree. Since you promised me a few weeks ago that if Mart Helme withdraws or is withdrawn from the government, the EKRE will also leave this government, I will ask you if and when you will leave this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U59	We still hope to carry out the mandate we have received in our elections until the next regular elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U60	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Yesterday on the radio, you said that the US elections were counterfeit, and that also means that there is no freedom or democracy in America. Could you please explain a little bit about the reasons for saying that? What are the proofs that the elections have been forged, and how can you say about another country and our good ally that there is no freedom or democracy there? Please explain this reasoning a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U62	I'd love to. I am simply explaining that the word 'if' was said: if it is possible to forge elections, if it is possible to gain power by forgery of the will of the people, then there will be no democracy. That should be clear to all of us. At present, in America, a number of locations are the result of a countdown of the disputed votes. We wait until the American legal system, the electoral system produces us a final result that everyone agrees with. Then we know what democratic will was.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U63	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U64	Thank you. I understand that you have taken the position today, that you are essentially not responding very much and that you are at least trying to remain very calm on the outside. I hope at some point that maybe changes. Of course, the appointment of the Riigikogu as Mordor was a good introduction to your normal role. I have asked you this before, and I will continue: by looking at all your statements, not only towards the United States, but also here towards Parliament, towards Members of Parliament, are you ashamed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U65	I would point out that I named the Reform Party as Mordor. No, I'm not ashamed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U66	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to welcome the fact that on 3 November the United States people elected Joseph Biden as the 46th President of the United States in free and fair elections. But now coming from the United States to this radio show yesterday, in addition to the US elections, you also dealt with elections in Estonia. It was the view of those who sent us that we had been reported to have had counterfeits as well. That's a tough assessment. Forgery is like a criminal matter already. The portfolio of the Minister of the Interior is held or held by the EKRE, which is governed by research institutions that should investigate such matters. Why have counterfeits committed in the Estonian elections not been investigated?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U68	Thank you. It is known that the results of the e-elections will be destroyed 30 days after the elections. By then, today's government was not yet in office. But in addition to being Minister of the Interior, we also have the place to rule as Minister of IT. That elections are transparent, secure and reliable, as agreed in the coalition agreement, will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U69	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You've been a hundred times more passionate in this remote control, and right now you're pretty sloshed and you're gonna need more fuel. But I find it completely irrational to read these referendums, quotations and your public statements about the passion you disparage and depreciate democratic systems and our partners, but when it comes to the elections in Belarus or Russia, it does not seem like there is such passion anywhere. Can I read from this that you are very pleased with how democracy works in these two countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U71	You should read the exact opposite. Elections must be fair, transparent and accepted by all countries. Three months ago, the Riigikogu was very concerned about the irregularities of elections in Belarus. I think this standard should be constant.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U72	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U73	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Martin Helme, you said yesterday: "I do not think there is any question that these elections are fraudulent. " You went on to talk about America's basically on the brink of civil war, about bloodshed, about guts in the streets. Today you call part of the Estonian Parliament a representative of the forces of evil. Are you a minister of all Estonia, or is it your goal to actually bring us to the threshold of violence?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U74	I am, of course, pleased that so much of the Estonian public is listening to our radio programme. I am sorry that you do not read more regularly, for example, the Lens or the New News, which contains a great deal of what then is the problem with the last American elections and what these disputes are. This would undoubtedly help you to be more adequate in your assessments. Speaking of guts and bloodshed, it seems to me, you didn't listen carefully. Mart told me about his dream.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U75	Thank you. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U76	Thank you, good manager. Martin Helme! It is amazing to hear this talk about parallel reality, as if we were living in two different worlds. Let me remind you again and quote what you said on the radio. There were no "if"s. You said: "I don't think there's any question that these elections are fake. " These statements divide Estonian society; these statements divide our allies. A simple question: whose interests do you stand for? Is there any reason to believe that you or the Minister of the Interior, who will soon be a former Minister of the Interior, or your party, have in any way, directly or indirectly, received support from the Kremlin?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U77	Mr Sutt, you went to Moonika Helme a long time ago and asked him to sign on behalf of the Estonian-US parliamentary group to condemn Mart Helme. This reminds me of Stalin, who went to Molotov and announced that Molotov's husband was a British spy and that something had to be done to resolve this situation immediately. That Stalinist handwriting you showed today... Well, I don't know where to go next.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U78	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U79	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In this radio show, you discussed it in a very specific way, that Estonian e-elections would be counterfeited. Then you said you couldn't deal with it, because it took 30 days for you to get a job as Minister of the Interior. However, it is possible to challenge the results in the Estonian legal system if you really have such doubts. Did you do this in time, filed a complaint to identify the election forgery? If you did, what answer did you get, and did it stay in court? On what basis do you claim that elections are being forged in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U80	The issue of e-elections has been addressed repeatedly, during several elections. It has passed through the Supreme Court, these disputes have been discussed. At least our party didn't go to court this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U81	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U82	Thank you very much, Mr President. All relationships in the world are known to be interpersonal. By introducing your political programme a little less than two years ago, you said that you would like to ask the United States as the most important ally to Estonia for military assistance of up to USD 1 billion in total. All relationships are personal. How will you address the President of the United States next time you go to ask for this help?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U83	Thank you. I have not managed to get to the present American President, I suspect that I will not be able to get to the next one, or to get to the President in the next term. Even if the President of Estonia meets with the President of the United States, this has usually happened in some larger gang, for example, along with other Baltic countries. I'm probably gonna miss this chance of direct questioning.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U84	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U85	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Martin, every time something happens to you or your father, and you say something, you're gonna be screwing around and looking for some translation errors. Today you also announced here at the beginning that you have not said that the election is fake, that you put "if" in front of it and that "if" that if it is, if it is proved that we will see you then. Actually, that's not the case. That's what they've already told you here. Your speech began in a very, very firm way of speaking that there is no question at all that these elections are fraudulent. But since you've refused to apologize here and refuse to say anything about yesterday's show, I wanted to ask you if you're still standing for everything you said yesterday and what your father said. Do you think it was a successful radio show and you're proud of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U86	Best radio show in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U87	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U88	Thank you. Your party, your ministers have repeatedly insulted and discredited the Finnish Prime Minister, Germany, the European Union in this radio programme. You and your father also arrived at the newly elected new president of America, as well as the Ukrainians. But what have you done? You have commended Putin's precise actions, etc. I repeat Mr Sut's question: do you not feel or do you feel that your statements and actions are very much in line with the propaganda statements of our eastern neighbour? And why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U89	Thank you. You've quoted a lot of sayings here. I would ask you to point out the exact quotations of who, when and where has been praised by Putin, then I can comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U90	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U91	Thank you. Mr Mihkelson used one of your quotes in his speech. Now I point it out exactly: "But I wanted to say about the Bidens that Hunter Biden simply, of course, yes, is busy using drugs and Ukrainian prostitutes, but his main activity, however, while his father was Vice President, and while Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State, was to mediate massive, large, million or ten million transactions with the Chinese and the Biden family and with the Russian and Biden family and with the Ukrainian and Biden family, as well as with the Arabs. So the Biden family, let's say, the pattern of public service has been to get money from America's strategic opponents. What will such people do when they receive the presidency? " I didn't listen to your radio. Are those your words?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U92	Thank you. Well, I still advise people to read more news, not just to watch Delfi or ERR. These stories were part of an American election campaign. Nobody has denied, not even the Bidens themselves have denied that the Hunter Biden company received 3.5 million from the Baturinite or Baturina family in 2014. He's in Putin's neighborhood. Well, whether it was like a real deal or not a real deal, I guess you can explain that later. But there have also been pictures in the media of how this guy sleeps with a dope pipe in his mouth. So get your shit together.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U93	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U94	Thank you. In general, the heads of state of Western Europe have congratulated the new President of the United States on the victory of the elections, including the head of our government. Congratulations have not been given to the new President of the United States, the President of Russia, referring to the same arguments that you put forward in your radio programme. So which is our government's foreign policy right now? Do we consider relations with the United States to be important, or do we not consider them important?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U95	In addition to a number of other countries, Mexico and Brazil, the two largest and most influential countries in Latin America and the closest to the United States, have said that they want to wait until the election result is fully known, which is very reasonable. Of course, I recall that in 2018 the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, named Trump America the enemy of Europe in his Twitter tweet. Well, I don't know how it worked on relationships and strategic partnerships, and how much time it takes to sort things out. So I guess let's not dramatize what anyone's said somewhere. Of course, Estonia's relations with the United States are strategic and do not depend on one person, be it the Estonian Minister or the President of the United States.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U96	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister of Finance! 24 hours ago, you claimed in a very convinced voice that the newly elected President of the United States, Joe Biden, was a corruptant. Are you convinced of the same thing 24 hours later, now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U98	I'll come back to what I said before. You should read more about what's written in America, what's been through the American election campaign. I'm not gonna be alone in lighting the whole world.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U99	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Minister for Finance, I come back to my previous question and I quote you: 'I do not think there is any question that these elections are fraudulent. " Please answer if you will continue to stick around and say that there is no question that these elections are fraudulent. And if you stick to that, what evidence do you have?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U101	Firstly, the results of the elections have not even been summarised in all states. In some states, in about half a dozen states, the election results have been sued. Some places where there are disputes have been sued because whether people couldn't go to vote or observers couldn't observe elections that are, let's say, rather unheard of in a normal, normal election procedure. The fact is that there are now two men in America who claim to have won the election, and these disputes go there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U102	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U103	Thank you. I'm a little worried about your uniform, you seem to be in a bad shape. There's no curass as usual. So is it the Prime Minister's good job that he's somehow been able to silence you or something else? But I ask you about your own words and your own views. One party chairman should certainly have the position he says, and he should keep it. On 11 November last year, perhaps almost a year ago, you said that if Mart Järvik goes, EKRE will go, and now, on 18 October, you said the same thing about Mart Helme. Surprisingly, both times have been quite close to Mars Day, and both people are the Martians you said so about. I ask here whether Martin Helme will pay the floor or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U104	He'll pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U105	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have remembered the Reform Party here many times with a good word. But it must have been a very difficult moment for you to witness at the press conference today that Mart Helme resigned because the Reform Party turned in a motion of mistrust. You have confessed to your loss at least once. But the public, the Estonian people are certainly not interested in your relationship, in the sense of the role of legislator, whether someone is a father or a son of someone. It is very clear that the Estonian people are interested in whether the words of the members of the Estonian government have weight. Do you consider it normal that you can choose a place and a moment because your word is serious and because it is not serious? Or do you think that a member of the Estonian Government should express principles that put our security at risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U107	There was another disinformation. Mart didn't resign because there was going to be a motion of mistrust. He resigned because he wanted to resign. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U108	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U109	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Martin Helme! Interesting was your parallel with Mordor. Of course, we could still fantasize who Gollum is in this government and who Frodo is, and so on. But let it remain the domain of historians. You just said a few moments ago that your word would pay. It also belongs to you to say that there is no place in this government for lying, a minister who lies must resign. You have said that the Estonian elections have been fraudulently conducted, and now you have said this about our biggest and most important ally. You haven't brought any evidence. The way I see it, you're just purposefully, indefensibly, blatantly lying. When are you resigning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U110	Oh, you guys! I understand that it doesn't matter whether I say something or not, you would like all the EKre Ministers to resign, and if it doesn't work, the whole government would resign. This joy I do not offer you, do not offer this entire government to you, do not offer our party to you. It's just the way it is. Of course it's my word. I'm the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U111	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Martin! I told you a few weeks ago, I don't recognize you. There have also been repeated hints in this Chamber that this seizure, this energy, this glow, is lost. We have a tired (can't say old) young man in front of us. Is being in government really so much trouble and suffering, or are you and your thoughts and desires so strongly suppressed in government? I think you're sick of it, too. Are you sick of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U113	Thank you. But why do you think it's an accident? You always have to surprise your opponents. All the time. You don't recognize me. What if that's what it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U114	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U115	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Helme! In your previous answer, you told me that I was doing some sort of Stalinist thing. No, I'm not. As the president of the Estonian-US parliamentary group, I considered it appropriate that I ask each member of the parliamentary group whether they are ready to join the statement, and I also asked Helle-Moonika Helme. I think it is right to ask people what their position is. But you didn't answer my question. Whose interests are you standing up for? Please confirm whether you have received, directly or indirectly, support from the authorities of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U116	Have we now come to the point that I have to start proving that we are not Russian agents? As we all know, there's no denying it. If you have any evidence whatsoever, I would like you to share them, if not with us, at least with the competent authorities. This kind of slander, by the way, throwing it at us, that's what's disruptive to society, that's hate speech, that's how it is to trample political culture into mud. If you ask who we stand for or what we stand for, I say that the slogan of our party clearly states: for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U117	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U118	Thank you. Good Minister, if I understand correctly right now, the opposition is trying to distrust you because you have referred to mass data on electoral fraud in the United States. If we look at all the other major powers in the world, such as Russia and China, we have a custom that democratic countries refer to such electoral frauds or other processes that are contrary to democracy, which undermine democracy. What should be the attitude of this opposition if it gives the impression that the opposition considers one of the world's great powers to be one that should not be criticised for undermining democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U119	I would put it this way: you can think of an ally, you can't think of a host. And all those people who think we can't think of anything show that they're not their own masters, that they're somebody's.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U120	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U121	Thank you very much, Mr President. My colleague Marko Mihkelson, in his speech, pointed out that for the last 30 years, the various parties in this Chamber have jointly represented Estonia outside, jointly for Estonia's security policy and foreign policy. If there's anything to settle, they'll sort it out, but outside we've shown ourselves to be united. As we know, we politicians are working 24 hours a day and we must obey the Constitution and other laws and policies that have been confirmed in this Chamber. Good allies are one of the foundations of security policy. Don't you think you, as a minister, do not have the authority to violate relations with our main ally? You've outdone your powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U122	Thank you. Well, it's a delicious irony that Marko Mihkelson came here to read this story. Mihkelson, both as Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee and as a mere member of the Riigikogu, has repeatedly and repeatedly questioned the legitimacy of Trump, both before the previous presidential elections and after the previous presidential elections in the United States, mainly by referring to the fact that Trump gained power because of so-called Russian cooperation, which has been convincingly overturned in subsequent FBI investigations. But no one was worried when he spoke this story (he spoke and said dozens of other people in Estonia, politicians, non-politics, journalists, diplomats) that our allies were somehow suffering or that our security was somehow suffering. We can see very clearly that we have a total double standard here. The question is not what is said, but who is talking about and who is it. I think that a bigger Americanist in Estonia than I can find, and a bigger advocate of cooperation between Estonia and the United States of America can also be sought. I have also carried out this cooperation in a very thorough manner in my office on a practical level.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U123	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U124	Thank you. I don't really understand my colleagues who say they don't recognize you. I know you very well. You're the same man who never justifies his views, in a good way. The best you can do is attack the questioner. You are the same man who said this morning that Mart Helme resigned because he did not offer the opposition the pleasure of distrust. Why do you think you are better than Mart Helme, why are you more reliable and why do you offer us this joy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U125	Thank you. Yeah, I'm such a kind person, I share joy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U126	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U127	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! Over and over to that same radio show. You said there, among other things, that if Trump was taken out of power as a result of this alleged election counterfeiting, then the constitution would no longer apply in America. Today, you also said here that there are now two men in America who claim to have won the election. The question is more of a legal one. I understand you'd rather consider Trump the winner today. In America, the courts are arguing about this at one point, and it is quite likely that President Trump will continue to claim that he actually won his election and that it is all an election forgery, it is simply a payback of the deep state, whatever. Then, at the end of January, we are in a situation where there are still two men in America who claim to be legitimate presidents. You have already questioned whether Biden has been legally elected. What happens then, will a third of the members of the Estonian government recognise one president and the rest of the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U128	I hope that all the people in this Chamber will agree that if someone gets the power of the election as a result of a fake, it will not be in line with democratic elections and the will of the people. I think, without bringing any country here as a concrete example, that, no matter what country, there is no democracy with fraudulent election results. It should be clear to everyone. The charges of counterfeiting are currently being processed, the courts are running. It will probably be clear to us whether it will be December or January, but at some point it will be clear which counterfeits were confirmed, which were not confirmed, and it will be clear what the vote of the electorate assembly will be. Of course, Estonia is working with the President that America will finally decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U129	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U130	Thank you. Mr. Helme! You have quite rightly understood that we want the EKRE to leave the government. There is no doubt about that. Every day EKRE's increasingly arrogant recalculation and the disruption and questioning of allied relations of vital importance to the security of our country brings closer the day when Estonia discovers itself in isolation. We want to prevent this in any case. Your coalition partners have been critical of what was contained in yesterday's radio broadcast in their public messages. Have your current coalition partners demanded that you reject your sayings yesterday, take back your words and find a way and a way to make them right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U131	Thank you. In our coalition, we do not speak in the language of threats and demands, we negotiate sensibly. But I would say for this "every day" that every day, when the Reform Party is in opposition, brings a better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U132	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As a member of the Riigikogu, I am now apologizing for using the word of some of our colleagues. The word that has been used to ask you questions is more suitable for the bushes behind the beer booth. But I do not think that there is any argument that, officially, the winner of the presidential election has not actually been revealed. Therefore, I absolutely do not understand this hysteria when it comes to asking these questions in this Chamber. It's like a point. The second point is that, in fact, the entire vocabulary of the media, as well as of the opposition, relates only to Biden's support, so let's say that sometimes the public media, too, I can safely say that 95% prefers Biden, not Trump. Are my conclusions correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U134	As we have seen from the campaign that has just ended, public opinion polls do not reflect what is real public opinion. But I don't understand either. I don't understand either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U135	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U136	Thank you. You have said, in a clear way, about the presidential election in America, that you think there is no question at all that these elections are fraudulent. But at the same time, there were elections to the Senate and the House of Representatives. If the presidential elections are firmly forged, why didn't you fake more support for yourself in the House of Representatives and the majority of the Senate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U137	Thank you. Well, you have to ask the forgers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U138	Kristina Shmigun-Luke, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you said your word would pay. Do you realize that you are a minister and that your statements are not a joke? Every time you say something and then somehow it feels like everything isn't right, you blame the whole world for being misunderstood. My question is, how long will this pattern last?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U140	No, of course our sayings aren't a joke. But I reject the claim that I always blame others for being misunderstood. This isn't right. I blame others for misrepresenting, deliberately making false news. There's a big difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U141	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U142	Good manager! Mr. Minister! You have, on some occasions, brought a parallel between the US elections and the Belarusian elections, so that there should not be double standards, that we have been very critical of electoral fraud in Belarus, that we must be equally critical in the US, etc. Interestingly, President Lukashenko, or allegedly elected President, has the same views on the US elections as you have expressed. Would you complete this parallel? Which way in America should we now look at whether Lukashenko's role is played by Biden or Trump?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U143	I said that the standard of elections and our attitude towards the standard of elections should be the same everywhere, regardless of the country's name.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U144	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U145	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Martin! Now we have learned in almost an hour that we are bad, stupid, bullying, misinterpreting, looking for reasons and excuses that are not really there. At the same time, I think that yesterday, after this great radio show, as you said, after the best radio show in the world, Jüri Ratas, our Prime Minister, wrote on Facebook that the Helmed must stop undermining American-Estonian relations. After or shortly before that, Jüri Ratas congratulated Joe Biden on his election victory. Is it logical for you to say that our prime minister is stupid or naive or very malicious or just completely misguided?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U146	Thank you. I think we should wait until the results of the election are fully established. I know it's usually the way to do it in America: the election results are coming, one party says I won, the other party says yes, I admit defeat. Then there will be no controversy, no congratulations. Unfortunately, this did not happen in these elections. So I think it would make sense if we waited until the results of the election were finally established, then we can congratulate the winner. But I'm glad you found out a lot of things. I'm just afraid it won't fix you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U147	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U148	Thank you. Good minister! Have your coalition partners from the Centre Party and the Patriotic Union in any way expressed a desire that you reject or reject what you said last night on the radio?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U149	Our coalition partners have repeatedly expressed regret that they themselves do not have such a powerful media channel.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U150	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U151	Good Martin! You answered the preceding question, "The Bidens are being written on the mass media about the words you broadcast on the radio." I have also read very different stories about President Trump, and I have really wondered how such a man can be President of the United States using internal appeal. But I've always been guided by the fact that if I don't have any concrete evidence of anything, I'd rather think about what I'm talking about. Do you ever get the feeling that talking is gold and silent silver to think for two seconds before you say anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U152	Thank you. I hope you understand that we practice it every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U153	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U154	Thank you! Mr. Helme! I'm not happy in this hall, and you don't have to entertain me like this. In fact, I am very sad and I am very ashamed, as the former Chairman of the Riigikogu Ene Ergma says in today's newspaper, that he is ashamed, dear compatriots, for our government. You said there was no threat to each other in this coalition. That's a lie again, because it was just that, during the previous government crisis, when you threatened that if Mart had to leave the government, the whole EKRE would go. So when are you gonna leave, when are you gonna leave the whole EKRE government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U155	Thank you. No, it wasn't a threat at all, it was as simple and as clear a communication as we used to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U156	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U157	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Two weeks ago, we had a government crisis, which the Prime Minister said was the most difficult crisis he has experienced in the government. The crisis ended with the signing of a strange joint statement for the public, which confirmed that it was true to the sections of the Constitution. In doing so, I received a message that EKRE rhetoric would become softer, taking more account of how they, whether they are minorities or foreign partners, accept this message. For you, the signed joint declaration meant that no one would give the exact same interview to Deutsche Welle, but in all the other channels, you can share your dreams and put out your mouth what's coming to mind? Or did this declaration still have a different meaning? Here's the question. An election forgery was discussed. What is the difference between making criticism of the elections in Estonia and the elections in the United States - is there a difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U158	I'm asking you to stick to your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U159	Yes, this declaration, which we signed on 22 October, almost three weeks ago, is an eternal good declaration, which confirms the freedom of expression and conscience. For me, the basic message of this declaration was that the word is free.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U160	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister Helme! I was beginning to think that if you claim that there is a conspiracy in the United States and that elections are constantly being forged for the benefit of the Democrats, how the current President of the United States won the elections four years ago. But my question concerns your father's statement in the same radio show, where he called the new elected heads of state of an important ally of Estonia a scumbag. Do you agree with your father?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U162	I've never said that there's always fakes or that there's a conspiracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U163	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U164	Thank you! Mr. Helme! I have a very simple and specific question. Are you ever willing to admit that you have lost your life, that you have lost, and that you are willing to apologize for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U165	Never say never.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U166	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U167	Thank you. Good minister! You have repeatedly been given the opportunity to condemn either your father or the generally told messages that the elected President of the United States and those associated with him are corrupt scumbags. You haven't done that. I think this could be a serious sign for some of the coalition members, which is your position. You can disprove it again if you like. But my question is that if the elected President of the United States does not suit you as an ally and, as I said earlier on the question, there have been problems with the Finns, as well as with the European Union and the Germans, then who you see in the EKRE and who you see as valuable allies in Estonia, if not our long-term allies and partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U168	Thank you. It's hard to fight or argue with the various fantasies and fears in your head. But in a sense, also in response to the previous question, we all realise that radical liberals and the left are using demand as the main political tactics for people to judge themselves. But we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U169	Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U170	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I like principled people, these are principles that are based on, conservative or liberal. But what is strange is that one of the people who shared the same ideas and ideas in the same radio show, one resigned and the other is still in office. Why are these standards, the principles that Mart Helme used in making his decision not applicable to you? How can you, in sharing the same principles and without condemning Mart Helme, continue in your profession?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U171	Thank you. Well, you're supposed to go deeper into what was the reason for Mardi's resignation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U172	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U173	Honourable Chairman! Good minister! I would remind you that it is polite to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu, especially when it comes to a very specific question. Your father called the elected president of the United States a scumbag. Do you share that view, or do you not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U174	Yes, of course it is polite to answer the questions, but the questions must be substantive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U175	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U176	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. The fact that, as a politician, you often attack your political opponents in a rather indiscriminate way may in some cases be understood, even though often the expressions you choose do not fall under cultural communication. Does it not matter to you that every politician of the Republic of Estonia, especially a member of the government, tries to find the maximum commonality in society every day and try to find the greatest possible commonality with our allies? Why are you acting the other way around?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U177	Thank you. Unfortunately, I have not chosen this tactic, it is still a tactic from you when it is said to agree with us or you will divide society. So how do we find this joint?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U178	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U179	Mr. Minister! Ene Ergma, former Chairman of the Riigikogu, has today asked in this way: "The hats who gave you the right to offend my country in this way? " Please tell me what you would say to Ene Ergma.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U180	I'd say it's a bit of a big deal to consider the country to be yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U181	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U182	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Listening to this story here reminded me of an antiquity saying: what is promised to Jupiter is not allowed to the bull. Without reading the long list, I will give very simple examples of the fact that the opposition is allowed to use absolutely uncontrolled vocabulary, verbal statements, as well as body language. Riina Sikkut, a member of the Sots, is showing the peaceable middle finger to the Minister of the Interior. [[A voice from the hall.]] In fact, the police are taking administrative responsibility for this. Kaja Kallas, the leader of our opposition, says that the Prime Minister will sell all of Estonia and say that the EKRE will chew everyone's throats out. Why should there be such inequality?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U183	Thank you. Yes, there should be no such double standard, no such inequality, but see, we live in an imperfect world.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U184	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U185	I know that even God is lost, but now I understand that you think you're never wrong. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U186	I'm really glad you have such a personal relationship with God that you know exactly what he's doing and what he's thinking. This is something we all need to develop to. But I never said I was never wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U187	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. It is now possible to open negotiations and to speak with the representatives of the political groups. First of all, the representative of the group whose members have expressed their mistrust. Kaja Kallas, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U188	Ladies and gentlemen, In the radio broadcast and speeches that caused great resentment at the weekend, which attacked both the United States elections and the President-elect of the United States in very harsh words, Estonia's electoral system was also attacked. There were two ministers who spoke with them. We got rid of one of them today on the road to pressure. He resigned in fear that a motion of distrust would pass against him, and rightly so, it would have gone through. However, we cannot leave the other person who made these statements unaccounted for either. Our role as Riigikogu is to express resentment for it. You don't just do that. Today we listened to Finance Minister Martin Helmet. He didn't answer the questions, he didn't reject any of his big speeches either. He was repeatedly given the opportunity to apologize for what he said; he did not take it. They also asked if he would agree with his father's even more vicious statements, and he was not willing to disprove them in any way. Minister of Finance Martin Helme has also been repeatedly caught lying and caught lying in this Chamber today. I am thinking of the same thing that has been repeatedly said that he has said in a clear way that these elections are definitely counterfeit. He himself has said that lying is a sin that a politician cannot forgive, and in that case his place must be freed. We'd like to see it that way. The cornerstones of Estonia's security are, on the one hand, our independent defence capabilities, but, on the other hand, our good relations with our allies, our relations with NATO. Therefore, attacks on our allies are directly undermining our security. It is not a small question, it is a question of the independence of our country, of all our existence. EKRE wishes to make Estonia a closed province and wants to leave us alone. The principle of Estonian foreign policy has been that we will never be alone again because we are weak on our own. Dear Members of the Fatherland and the Centre Party, who you are probably in the rooms behind your screens! We are making a clear assessment of such views and actions today. You will also have the opportunity to show what you think of such activities. If you say in social media posts that it is not acceptable and it has to stop, if you say that you reject this action, then that is all nonsense if you do not vote today or vote against the publication of mistrust. In that case, you will not follow your words, your actions will cost nothing. Then it can be said that all that Mart and Martin Helme are making out of their mouths in these radio programmes are, in fact, those views that you can also sign because you are not giving it your judgment, you say it's okay, that's okay. It is precisely that such a minister must continue. In that case, you will also go into history as the breakers of Estonia, as those who left Estonia alone. This choice is yours. Let's cut this shit off and release Martin Helme, in addition to Mart Helme. Let's give him another chance. Please vote for censure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U189	Now I would like to ask for a speech on behalf of the Viktor Vassilyev Central Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U190	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker directed his speech to the coalition, so I will direct it to the opposition, okay, that makes sense. Yes, you see, a politician must rely on the Constitution of the Republic. The Constitution of the Republic states that at least a member of a party must always be guided by his own conscience in his words and actions. And somehow, there's no word in the Constitution about a party conscience. I'm talking about Older Helme right now. Someone likes to say what he says. Nobody likes it. As they say, beauty is in the eyes of the viewer. Mart Helme would have said that beauty is in the hands of the viewer. Of course, I'm not saying that from this remote control, but he's capable of saying one comma of another. You'll find it quite interesting here when Mart Helme takes his place here in the Riigikogu Hall, indeed it gets interesting. What makes me wonder? I have also been in the opposition for years, and I think we worked quite well in the opposition. But this time the opposition hasn't learned everything. The fact that Mart Helme resigned could have been your great victory, wouldn't you, and you would have earned some points? But you guys are going after all the Helmes now, so you can't have Big Helme, so let's try it like a little one. Well, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, um, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Why are you doing this? But okay, it's your choice. Well, then, you guys do what you do. But there is nothing to be done, the coalition remains a coalition, the opposition remains an opposition, so we will continue to do this work as we do. And nothing happens to the Helms, there's still more than one. It's gonna be interesting, and it's gonna be interesting anyway, absolutely. So good luck to you! And we, as a bigger brother in this Riigikogu, are still watching you, the little brother, and it's pretty fun. You guys did a great circus here today, but let's hope people like it. Everyone does a circus according to their abilities, but the Beads are pretty damn good at it. Learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U191	Siim Pohlak, please! On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party has spoken here about Estonia's reputation. But that doesn't sound sincere. It is clear that the only objective of today's opposition is to overthrow and continue its policies, to continue to secure its food chains, which the Reform Party failed in 2016. This is confirmed by duality and double standards in the action of today's opposition. President Trumpi, currently in office in the United States, can attack indiscriminately in Estonia, can be criticised. In this, the Reform Party has never seen a problem, ever. Today's coalition is active, Minister of Finance Martin Helme is doing a good job, the coalition is in the process and is in the process of doing many good things that are important to the people of Estonia and which we must continue with. On behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to wish the Minister of Finance much strength and thank our coalition partners, the Fatherland and the Centre Party, for their cooperation so far. I call for support for the Minister of Finance and the continuation of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U193	Thank you. I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Indrek Saare. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U194	Ladies and gentlemen, Mart Helme resigned, and that is undoubtedly a good thing. And I'm not talking here just by looking at the opposition. I think that the resignation of Mart Helme is good, that many members of the coalition also think, as we can see. But the concern about where today's government is taking us has unfortunately not improved significantly. As we have just seen from the presentation by EKRE's chairman, Minister of Finance Martin Helme, on this platform, the EKRE is not going to say that something has gone wrong. We have seen for a year and a half what EKRE leaders use their position for, the platform they have been given as ministers of government. After all, this issue is not only foreign policy, although yes, today we are talking first and foremost about foreign policy, because it has become a priority last time. It is a systemic concern about the construction of confrontations, the construction of confrontations in our community, our society, our country, and the construction of confrontations with our allies. Unfortunately, this concern has not retreated with Mart Helme's resignation. We are afraid to face similar situations again very soon, and if not sooner, then at the moment when the EKRE gets what it wants and comes to the Riigikogu with a draft decision to hold a referendum in order to bring us back in time to set up one of the greatest confrontations of all time in society. Unfortunately, I have not heard any conclusions from the government coalition on this issue. Then our own people will be attacked again, as has been done repeatedly. In addition, it will, of course, affect our allies to at least the same extent as the last statements. Our allies will receive an unambiguous signal when the Government of the Republic of Estonia comes and says that it intends to put a question to the referendum through which it is possible to restrict the rights of minorities. I therefore call on everyone here to vote in favour of mistrust of Martin Helme, because the government in which EKRE leader Martin Helme operates is not useful for Estonia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U195	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. It is now time for us to go to the final vote if the Minister does not yet want to take the floor. No, I don't. Then we'll make the hall call sound. Yes, Siim Pohlak has his hand up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U196	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take a ten-minute break on behalf of the EKRE Group before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U197	Thank you. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U198	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Now is the time to go to the final vote. The Minister has been distrusted if the majority of the Riigikogu is in favour of the publication of censure. I am voting on the motion of censure on Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Please take a stand and vote. But before that, let's turn on the hall call again. The last one was the end of the break and now the vote is the signal. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the vote? We can. I am voting on the motion of censure on Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U199	[[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U200	Let's go to the next item. Today's third item is the inquiry into the support measures in the tourism sector submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Katri Raigi, Jaak Juske, Indrek Saare, Helmen Küti, Ivari Padari, Heljo Pikhofi, Kalvi Kõik, Annely Akkermanni, Urve Tiidus, Taavi Rõivas, Vilja Toomas, Toomas Kivimägi, Heidy Purga, Jürgen Ligi, Andres Suti, Urmas Kruuse, Signe Riisalo, Siim Kallas, Kaja Kallas, Signe Kivi, Andrus Seeme, Jüri Jaanson, Aivar Sõerdi, Yoko Alenderi, Valdo Randpere, Hele Everausi, Ants Laaneots, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Mart Võrklaat, Lauri Westmets and Raimond Kaljulaid on 12 October 2020. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will answer that. I'm gonna ask Katri Raigi to waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U201	Good President! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, In accordance with our rules of procedure, it is possible to present both the content of the questions and to talk about why this issue is important. I will briefly mention why the tourism sector is particularly important to us, and I will bring up some figures that we obviously all know, but perhaps today it is still useful to repeat them. Tourism, ladies and gentlemen, is a human sector. The restaurant business employs 17,000 people in Estonia, 7,000 in hotels, 2000 in the travel sector and the organisation of events. The average tourist company does not have large own resources; it is not assisted by a loan. Tourism is a sector of smells, tastes and touch, as they say about themselves. We are talking today about the people of Estonia and their support. The World Tourism Organisation has recently carried out a study which says that the economic impact of tourism in Estonia is 15% of our employees and 15% of our GDP depends on tourism. The World Tourism Organisation has explicitly stated what should be done during the COVID: maintain jobs, provide liquidity and implement COVID security measures. What are we asking the Prime Minister to do? We want Estonia to have a clear tourism policy. We all understand that the tourism sector has been hit for a very long time. Support measures have ended, but the crisis in the tourism sector is unfortunately not. We consider it important that everyone is supported: small, large and medium-sized enterprises. And that is why the Prime Minister has been asked three questions. The first concerns why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has not taken into account the proposals made by the tourism associations. Perhaps the question is whether we have sufficient responsibility for our cooperation with the Minister for Tourism. The second question is whether, in the opinion of the questioners, tourism's tax revenue must be invested back in business, i.e. tourism must be supported directly, rather than providing loans, for example. And the third question directly concerns why the next year's state budget has two thirds less money for tourism than this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U202	Thank you. I now ask Prime Minister Jüri Ratas to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U203	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! First of all, I fully agree with what Mrs Raig, a member of the Riigikogu, said that the tourism sector is extremely important. The tourism sector has certainly suffered one of the greatest, if not the greatest, setbacks in this crisis. The tourism sector has been the one who has actually maintained the Estonian economy for a very long time in good times, but also in more difficult times. So I would like to say here to the entire tourism sector, to the various parts of the sector, be it companies that organise trips within or out of Estonia, be it hotels, be it catering, be it domestic tourism, be it the entire HoReCa sector, that it has really been very important and very large for the Estonian economy. So thank you for your work and your contribution. Now, of course, the question is how we can get through this crisis so that the sector, which has been hit very badly, especially the branches which, above all, organise trips out of Estonia and have probably even been hit 100%, will survive. How and how much can we support them? And I am trying to answer these questions in the context of this question. I do indeed confirm this and agree with you that the tourism sector, including hotel industry, is in a very difficult situation where the turnover of tourism companies has fallen drastically. Guests stay very close in accommodation companies, especially in Tallinn. Cruise tourism has practically stopped organising international conferences. The Association of Estonian Tourists, whom I met on 8 October, and the Association of Estonian Hotels and Restaurants, whose representatives met last week, on 5 November. My message and the message from the government is that the tourism sector is important for the country. In the past, the tourism sector and the entrepreneurs and workers operating there have benefited from the spring unemployment fund's wage subsidy measure. This measure was effective, but it was also very expensive, and the unemployment fund's reserve from which the measure was financed is often less than a few months ago, i.e. in the spring before the wage subsidy was implemented. It is also likely that special measures will not be able to maintain all jobs in the tourism sector, as it is not known when this important sector will actually recover, not to mention when it will fully recover. It is no secret that the greatest concern for the development and implementation of targeted and effective subsidies in the tourism sector is the fact that due to the spread of the new wave of the corona virus and the continuing global travel restrictions, it is not known when, in what extent and how international travel will return. It is very likely that there will be different restrictions on international travel, both in Europe and globally, at least until spring next year, until 2021. On 8 October, the government approved target groups and conditions for crisis aid of EUR 5.8 million for the tourism sector. The vast majority of these funds move to target groups through the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Enterprise Estonia. We will continue to hold discussions within the government on how to help these sectors, using targeted measures that reach those in need, effective measures and take account of the sustainability of the country. The government is constantly monitoring the epidemiological situation and will therefore take considered decisions on the extent to which, and whether, travel is possible in the current situation. Now to the questions of questioning. The first question is: "Why has the proposals made jointly by the tourism associations to the Advisory Forum on Crisis Measures convened by the MKM not been taken into account when developing support measures? "Whether and what feedback were received from tourism operators on the proposals collected through this Siemi working group and which proposals were taken into account? The Crisis Action Group referred to in your question was set up in August 2020 on the basis of a letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. The group consisted of an advisory body and a panel of experts. Various representative organisations of companies, such as the Service Economy Chamber, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Association of Estonian Hotels and Restaurants, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Banking Association, Eesti Pank, the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, the Estonian Association of Tourist Associations and the Estonian Spaiit, were involved in the advisory assembly. Mrs Maive Rute, Mr Indrek Neivelt and Mr Urmas Varblane were also involved in the panel. The aim of the working group was to get feedback on the crisis measures developed by MKM and implemented through EAS and KredEx in March 2020 following the outbreak of corona, in order to be better prepared for the deepening of the economic crisis and to prepare for more effective implementation of crisis measures. Various proposals were submitted to the working group and other ministries by the Association of Tourists. Most importantly, tax relief and wage subsidies were requested. The working group meeting also focused on KredEx crisis measures, as it saw the need to move towards more specific solutions for the sector. However, the crisis action group recognised that KredEx's measures are not the best solution given the business models and crisis damage in the tourism sector. Due to the interruption of international travel and the different restrictions on the absence of turnover, it is difficult for companies to take loans and guarantees, as it is very difficult to predict the time of recovery of international travel. For example, the business model of travel companies does not use bank loan financing to finance business, although KredEx has been helped by larger accommodation companies. The Working Group proposed to the Government to offer alternative credit products to the tourism sector and to consider the possibility of waiving the guarantee requirement in the case of exceptional direct credit. The last one couldn't find the government's approval. The feedback received from the working group proved to be a necessary input for the Economic Recovery Action Plan prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Economic Recovery Action Plan was a very important basis for the Government of the Republic in drawing up both the state budget for 2021 and the state's budget strategy 2021 to 2024. The second question: "Why 180 million? a tax revenue and 10% of Estonia's export income from industry (travel business, accommodation, catering) are not considered necessary to support paid tax money by investing part of the business in order not to lose jobs and businesses with high recovery thresholds and thus future income for the country's economy as the market recovers? " The government has also supported the industry in addition to the above mentioned wage subsidy measure, where nearly EUR 37 million went to support the tourism sector, and it can be said that it supported the maintenance of 20745 jobs. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications developed and the Enterprise Estonia implemented a grant scheme for non-refundable aid in the spring of 2020. This was a crisis measure for tourism operators. The total amount of the measure was EUR 25 million and targeted the target groups most affected by the crisis. These were accommodation companies, catering companies, travel operators, permanent attractions and tourism service providers. 1081 companies received support and the survey showed very positive feedback on the recipients of the service. In September, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications presented a proposal to the Government to support tourism industry operators through demand stimulation measures in tourist accommodation, through direct payments and KredEx financing instruments. On 8 October, we decided that direct support for the tourism sector would be provided for target groups excluded from the crisis measure in spring 2020 for an amount of EUR 5.8 million. The support is targeted at target groups that have been and continue to be most affected by the restrictions, including accommodation companies, operators of attractions and tourism services, guides, organisers of international regular services, conference organisers and travel agents holding IATA accreditation. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with EAS, has developed the terms of support measures which are currently in the coordinating circle of the Ministry. The amount of aid has been determined taking into account the size of the company, the loss of turnover and the need to cover the area of activity and, consequently, the fixed costs in order to recover from the crisis period. EAS will open the grant application in November as soon as the State aid authorisation has been obtained. Therefore, many tourism operators still receive aid to compensate for some of the losses. In addition, in cooperation with destinations and entrepreneurs, the EAS carried out a successful domestic tourism campaign during the summer. Through EAS, support for international events, including conferences in Estonia, support for the development of the capacity of destinations and activities related to the marketing of Estonia as a travel destination will continue, as soon as the restrictions are eased, the global pandemic will be controlled. In addition to the above, MKM, in cooperation with EAS, has changed the existing conditions for support measures through external instruments, adapting them to the needs of the crisis. In addition to crisis support, tourism operators had the opportunity to apply for support for the renewal of the business model of the tourist operator and for the introduction of new services and products at a lower self-financing rate of 20%. We have allocated EUR 4 million to support measures to meet high demand and EAS will open a new call for proposals for tourism business models on 7 January next year. We are working on MKM and EAS tourism development centre, in cooperation with the preparation of the tourism programme 2021 to 2024, where we plan both activities to support important sector developments and activities to support the restoration of tourism demand for a new start. We have put forward proposals to fund the tourism recovery programme from the European Union REACT-EU 2021/2023 to carry out digital and greening in the tourism sector as well, to support the introduction of innovative solutions for new business models and to restore the demand for Estonian tourism on foreign markets. Question 3: How can it be that 2021? Under the measures set out in the state budget explanatory memorandum, the only tourism-related measure "Shaping a competitive tourism environment" directly depends on the export revenues of Estonian tourism services and, in light of the priorities set out in the explanatory memorandum, which should be increased to emerge from the crisis in COVID-19, 63.9% less funding will be available from the budget than in the previous year (40.8 million). 14.8 million instead of EUR 14.8 million. EUR), but the metrics (volume of exports and number of overnight stays of foreign tourists) continue to grow evenly compared to previous years. "The measure set out in the explanatory memorandum to the national budget covers the activities of state budget and the competitive tourism environment financed by structural support for the current period through the Enterprise Development Foundation. Indicators of measures drawn up for the planning of the country's ABM budget shall be updated annually when the programmes are reviewed. This had not yet been done at the time of drawing up the explanatory memorandum to the state budget, but given the changed situation, the effects of the crisis and the economic indicators in the sector, these indicators will certainly be adjusted. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is planning structural resources for the new period, taking into account the needs of tourism operators. As mentioned earlier, the Ministry has put forward proposals for financing the tourism recovery programme from the European Union's recovery plan, namely the REACT-EU funds for the period 2021 to 2023. Dear Riigikogu, good heirs, I thank you for your questions and, of course, I am ready to respond to further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U204	Thank you, Prime Minister. You really have questions. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U205	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I'm going to ask you the same question that Raul Siem asked in Question Time in this Chamber. In particular, the residual amount of the unemployment fund measure at the unemployment fund is 20 million and the members of the unemployment fund board have agreed that the unemployment fund measures as effective measures should be extended to tourism enterprises. The only thing missing is the government's decision. This week it will be eight months since the start of the emergency situation, and the tourism sector is still resting. But today you also said that you were discussing and discussing. It's a very simple decision. Can the unemployment fund continue to grant labour market support to the tourism sector with the amount in reserve?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U206	Thank you for this question. First of all, the emergency situation. We know that the special situation lasted only for a very limited period of time from this period to today, the emergency situation is no longer in force at the moment. It is true, I am, a good questioner, that you agree that this setback for the tourism sector has certainly not only been due to an emergency situation. When the emergency situation ended, the situation continued to be difficult, as much less foreign travel has been made. This is also demonstrated by all our statistical assessments, as well as by the data coming from our gates, be it the port or the airport. Secondly, as far as I know, the full composition of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has not been able to accept the salary subsidy because it has been the subject of one debate. I am aware that employers and trade unions have agreed in principle. As far as I am aware, this amount is slightly higher in the unemployment fund today than you mentioned, but it does not change the substance. According to the unemployment fund, the tourism sector, which includes accommodation, catering, travel agencies and international travel, received a salary benefit as follows: the months were March, April, May and June. The total cost of the tourism sector was €36792740. The beneficiaries of the benefit were above 20000, namely 20745. The total amount, with the exception of the tourism sector, was 219,7 million. Now, perhaps you are also interested in who received support at least once during the period from March to June: international carriage of passengers on land, at sea, in the air, 1547 recipients, accommodation of 5524 recipients, catering of 12485 recipients and activities of travel agencies and tour operators, 1189 recipients. Now the answer to the other side of your question is that why this decision has not been taken at the moment, that if there is this free resource, then why has the government not decided to contribute to the tourism sector? The reason is very simple. First of all, this agreement has not yet been concluded at government level, there have been discussions. It is certainly also the case that, in many other business sectors, it is currently difficult. So this has also been one of the arguments why this round of support has not been reopened for the tourism sector. In addition, other support measures for the tourism sector, including hotels and restaurants, have been considered. These financial discussions are certainly still to be held. And, as I said, it has been proposed by the respective Ministry that the tourism sector should be revived by quite a considerable amount of REACT-EU funds. So these are the reasons for today. Could this money, theoretically or in principle, be allocated from the unemployment fund to the tourism sector? The answer is yes, it can. However, there are many other sectors that are struggling today because of this pandemic, because of this crisis. And we also have to take into account that it is not known when this pandemic will end. Therefore, keeping certain reserves for even more difficult times is also one argument that needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U207	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Let's talk about people! Very many people lost their jobs in the tourism sector and, in fact, in a large number of sectors or services related to the tourism sector. They lost their job at the beginning of this year. Many of them had not worked for a long time, there were very many young people. As we know, our unemployment benefit system is that if you have worked for less than five years and paid this insurance premium, in six months' time, these benefits will run out. This period is now, in a row and in a row, there will be more people who are about to end the period of payment of the benefit and their only possibility of income is, in fact, unemployment benefit. We all understand that there are not many new jobs now. Tell me, please, what's the government's plan so these people don't stay on this EUR 290 unemployment allowance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U209	Thank you. First of all, we have increased very different unemployment benefits. These decisions have been made that when people become unemployed, they really help these people financially. Now, when you ask what these steps are, in this very serious economic crisis and in the health crisis, we can take these steps in such a way as to call on people to discipline, to make certain government restrictions, which really always have a negative impact on the economic sector, but it is necessary to keep the overall economy, the economic structure of the economy as wide as possible, in other words to keep the COVID-19 as much under control as possible. I think that the people of Estonia have done an excellent job here, as well as the Estonian medical sector, hospitals, that our medical system is not overloaded today. But we're already seeing the first serious warning signs. Certain hospitals have been moved to a higher level in this health emergency, even two steps higher, where scheduled treatment has also begun to be withdrawn. So this is definitely a big playground that's all about keeping the virus under control. On the other hand, it has certainly been our priority to keep Estonia as open as possible. That's what we've actually been able to do. Looking at many of our close countries, our allies in the European Union, we see that closing is much more massive, much more powerful. We see that even in the nearest countries, catering facilities are no longer open at all, or, if they are open, as a courier service, whether it is through Bolt or through Wolt, or on-site sales. Today we can also say that it works in Estonia, that we can go to a diner and take a buffet and enjoy our company. But, of course, doing so with great restraint, using a variety of confidence measures, such as the mask, you have a mask in front of you today, or the hygiene of your hands and keeping your distance. What else we have done, and what I think was actually quite effective, but true, it also had an automatic negative impact on certain tourism sectors, was the call "Clean Estonia! Rest this summer in Estonia!'. The last time there was an autumn break, there was an invitation to rest in Estonia. I do not have this information at hand at the moment, but I do not think I am mistaken when I say that, in fact, there were very many foreign flights [there were no more] in the school holidays compared to the previous week, or there was no increase in departure from the airport. More like maybe there was even a slight decrease. This shows that the people of Estonia actually spent a lot of time in Estonia, did so here in their home country, and it certainly helped the tourism sector very strongly outside Tallinn. However, the negative side of this relates to those entrepreneurs who today organise tourism activities in Estonia outside: it was, of course, a very big blow to them. On the other hand, let's be honest, the capital of Tallinn, Tallinn Old Town, dining places, entertainment places and accommodation facilities have also been hit very hard. Only recently did I communicate with two of the largest hotel managers in Tallinn. This picture, which is currently looking back, shows that the fulfillment is 10% or less. At the same time, the kitchen is kept open to offer breakfast or lunch. In some hotels, you can only go to dinner in advance at night. It is clear that the virus has had a major negative impact on our tourism sector. As much as we can keep the tourism sector and Estonia's life open at all, so much we can keep jobs, as well as the jobs of young people that you asked about. And, of course, the aim is still to keep the tourism sector as open as possible to tourists, which today is primarily related to domestic tourism, with all the restrictions that we are doing or are planning to do. Now there is also a very big question of how our neighbours see all this tourism. And let us be honest, today we also have countries like this in Europe that if, for example, I want to go there as a tourist and I even agree to be there in self-insulation or to carry out tests, then in fact, the Estonian person is not allowed into the country as a tourist, because the rate of infection has also gone high in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U210	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U211	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! The situation is very serious and tens of thousands of people who are involved in this sector are now waiting for certainty about their future. I think it's "Clean in Estonia!" The calls are certainly good and necessary, but they are simply too few at this stage. As you yourself said, Tallinn has been hit most painfully. In very many other Estonian regions, the situation is perhaps not even as critical at the moment. You also mentioned 5.8 million, which concerns this year and the additional budget. But I still got confused about the plan that goes on because that 5.8 million is time-limited. What is the action plan to help the tourism sector overcome this crisis? If businesses do not survive, it will not be possible to provide support to anyone after a while. Can you please also specify financially, with numbers, when we are talking about the next 2021?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U212	Thank you for this question. In this sense, I agree that if the company does not survive, if the company's activities go completely behind, then the knowledge in this sector will also be lost, the prepared staff or employees in this sector will also disappear, the whole competence will be lost. And, of course, it is a big problem to start rebuilding all this at one point when the borders open and when tourism actually opens up again. What are we going to do? One thing is that, indeed, for this 5.8 million part, there is currently a coordination of documentation. On the other hand, it is the same REACT-EU, it is planned to finance the tourism recovery programme for the period 2021 to 2023, the application is currently in the amount of EUR 55 million. Thirdly, I think we need to come back to providing such one-off grants, one-off reliefs for different sectors, including the tourism sector. This debate must be held again. And like you said, "Clean in Estonia!" It was good. I think we need to continue with these activities in the future if we cannot go abroad or because of the pandemic, it is very difficult. And, of course, we generally deal with COVID-19 disease. The government basically deals with this every day. The government will meet twice a week on this subject in cooperation with the Scientific Advisory Board and specialists to do everything possible to keep the situation under control.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U213	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U214	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I'll keep going. The question is forward-looking. The 5.8 million, now budgeted, are about seven times less than the sector itself has estimated their need for support. You also mentioned REACT-EU. My question is this: can you get a little more precise about what the financial opportunities will be in 2021? And if these financial opportunities remain at 5.8 million, what do you consider to be the result for the tourism sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U215	Thank you. I certainly cannot agree that this money is only 5.8 million. First of all, everything that's been done to this day. We have helped the tourism sector quite a lot, there have been large loans, working loans to tourism companies so that they can survive in the first place. It is true that I am also saying here before the Riigikogu that that is why the government has received many criticisms, and I have also been criticised for this. Take, for example, the same large shipping company Tallink, which is actually directly related to tourism. The government has decided on the granting of revolving loans, and there have been many objections to this: it is said that this is not the right way to go, not to support companies with such amounts in particular. Personally, I continue to think that this was actually the right step, and what might have been the Tallink situation in the coming months, it would certainly have been more difficult for them, much more complicated. So I don't think we can say that let's not look at everything that's been done. We have also provided other incentives in the shipping sector, other basic assistance to help the shipping sector as well. Now, the next few years. As I said, we have put forward proposals for financing the tourism recovery programme from the European Union REACT-EU funds over these three years, from 2021 to 2022 to 2023, to the amount of 55 million. It would also be necessary to carry out digital and green teasing in the tourism sector, which has been one of the very important cornerstones of the re-launch scheme. We also want to support the introduction of new business models, innovative solutions and help restore the demand for Estonian tourism in foreign markets. Now, as I said, there will be such individual grants in the government in the coming months, discussions on individual sums of money on the table, and that should be the case. I cannot rule out at all what Mrs Akkermann asked for, that we will at one point return to the unemployment fund measure. I think it is also important, it was an effective measure in the spring. But as I said, the pandemic period is very difficult for us to plan. To make all the reserves, perhaps in one year, figuratively speaking, empty out, I think it is not a very responsible behaviour. We do not know what will happen next year, when the vaccine will come, which will actually affect the tourism sector very much, will once again affect the possibility of travelling. What else has Estonia done? We have still tried to keep the corridors as open as possible, to keep this balance despite the spread of the virus. Today, it can basically be said that flights from all European countries are allowed. It is true that the infection rate in these countries can be double that of the European average. So I think these are the specific amounts: 55 million on the one hand, 5.8 million on the other, and, on the third, of course, other activities that are on the table every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U216	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U217	Good President! Good Prime Minister! I am pleased to hear that you understand the depth of the crisis in the tourism sector. We invited you here today before the Riigikogu, not Minister Siemi, because unfortunately the tourism sector has not worked very well with its minister, as they themselves confirm. The tourism sector understands that they also need to tighten up themselves. They're ready to lose half the jobs. At the same time, it is clear that people are still needed to use these REACT-EU funds. Can you tell me whether you personally support an unemployment fund to go to the tourism sector as soon as possible, and what do you think this is the first opportunity in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U218	Thank you. Once again, we must consider that there are three parties to the unemployment fund: the government, employers and trade unions. First we have to make a deal. As I said, we have discussed this in the government, but there is no agreement at the moment. I personally, of course, consider it right to do as much as it depends on us to support the tourism sector. But we also have to take into account that all reserves [can't be exploited] without knowing when this pandemic will end. After all, there are other sectors that need support, I am not saying that equally, but practically the same. So these discussions must be continued. With the various umbrella organisations in the tourism sector, as I said, I have met. They have different proposals, but indeed, many say today that it is necessary to do the minimum to keep companies running, of course, no longer with the number of employees that it was before. Unfortunately, this is the situation now. But to keep working and thus to keep knowledge there in the company, it is important. We are trying to discuss these steps again with tourism companies, but I think we need to face the truth whether we want it or not: large and powerful hotels in Tallinn Estonia do not live well today, live very badly, very badly. Actually, there are no customers, and the question is, what's going to happen to these hotels? True, it must be acknowledged that the majority of such hotel managers in Tallinn also say that the sector itself has a very strong belief in recovery. This is, of course, a very positive message in this difficult situation. We see that some hotels have also gone into very large investments. They're renovating themselves, using this pandemic, and they're taking advantage of this window of time. This shows that, in fact, the hope that the sector will recover, the hope that tourists will return, as well as the hope that the sector will recover. We are doing everything; Estonia, as a sea state, is doing everything to get all the tourists here when the sector and borders start opening up again. M a means not only air traffic, which I have already mentioned, but also cruise tourists who have basically disappeared completely during this summer. These are the steps we plan to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U219	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! The tourism sector has produced a very large share of our GDP in good times. As we have spoken here, this is a very extraordinary crisis that has hit the heart of the capital city particularly painfully. This year, no cruise ships really arrived at the port of Tallinn. And as has been said here, large hotels in Tallinn are closing doors in a row, businesses and cafes closing in the Old Town, so the Old Town is becoming such a ghost town. It is clear that the government has not done enough to save and preserve this capital sector. At the same time, we need these companies, the people involved in this, when the borders open up again. Still, Prime Minister, what can the government do if we talk specifically about Tallinn in order to keep this sector as much as possible? We are going to need these people, these companies when the borders open, and this will all contribute to economic recovery.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U221	Thank you. I certainly do not agree with the expression you used about today's Old Town of Tallinn. I understand what you mean, there's fear or danger that we won't see tourists on the streets of the Old Town anymore, that the Old Town has become empty. That's actually a fact. This we see today is that dining places, various entertainment places [closed doors]. Today, unfortunately, that is the case. I think the words of recognition must be said to the City Council of Tallinn and the City Government, who have made a serious effort to help the city's businesses as much as they can, as much as they have the strength. Now you ask what the government is doing and you say that the government has failed. On this criticism, I say as much as I have begun to reply, that it is important that we are able to control this disease, COVID-19, as far as possible. We have currently kept Estonia basically open. There are still very few examples of closure: the period of self-insulation, other than 24.00, must not sell alcohol, such as the obligation to wear masks in nursing homes, some more. Let us be honest, there is not much of what the government has regulated. We need to understand when you say that restaurants, dining places, entertainment places are closed in our immediate vicinity, that there are cities in Europe's large countries today, where after nine o'clock no longer allowed to travel on the street by car or on foot. You can only order food from catering centres as courier service or through a hatch or as a co-selling service. The situation is, unfortunately, much more complicated in many countries. This is not the kind of arrogant or arrogant attitude that we are doing well here in Estonia. No, I think we need to be very restrained and very modest, but we must, of course, make an effort all the time so that we can keep the economy open. I think that every week that we can keep our economy working, our economy open, the less we have unemployment, the more the economy beats. The same tourism sector, indeed, is also beating at national level. So that's what we have to go on with. True, this may mean certain local or other specific limitations. The same example of the mask. I'm here right now without a mask because if you're working and some people are watching you over the Internet or a transmission, it's just the hearing people asking you to take off the mask so they can understand better. That's my reason for being here without a mask. But I think that wearing a mask indoors should become a much stronger habit for people, be it shopping centres, be it cultural institutions. Yes, I agree that there must be certain differences, such as children, and if there are medical indications, then, of course, you can say that the mask does not need to be worn. But I think it's the right way to go. The other thing is that we really need to think about whether or not now this 2+2 will be completely restored, as was the spring. But some kind of rule that keeps more distance that keeps distance even in dining places, entertainment places, I think it makes sense and helps to extend the time when we don't have to close it. So, I guess some of these restrictions need to be considered, but it really needs to be done in a very balanced way so that it hurts the economy as little as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U222	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U223	Mr. Prime Minister! The sector itself has made quite a number of proposals to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and these have been sensible proposals, they have been collected across the sector, they have been filtered out, which is important. There are two important issues. One is this issue of wage support. By the way, the Swedes today decided to extend the salary allowance for six months. And the second issue is such general competition with neighbouring countries. The Estonian companies operating in Lithuania say that the analogous so-called KredEx measures in Lithuania are much more accessible than they are in Estonia. But it's damaging to the general competitive environment if it's different with our neighbours. Tell me this: has Minister Siem, who, in particular, comes out of charge for tourism, come to the government with his own proposals to do or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U224	Thank you. You're talking about Minister Siem, Raul Siem. What am I saying? I have met with representatives of these sectors, the tourism sector, restaurants, hotels. There have been very concrete proposals. He's been at some of the meetings I've been asking him for and where he's been able to come at that point. So we've discussed them together. Now you are talking specifically about such measures to ease labour problems. As I said, in the spring we had this measure, but there is no agreement at the moment. There are certain reserves in the unemployment fund, but the tourism sector has said that they also agree with a support measure in the sector where they can decide for themselves. Efforts are being made to keep a certain number of workers on their payroll so that knowledge and skills in this sector are not lost. We have done so much at the moment, how much we have done and how much we have agreed at the moment. Certainly, Siem has come with his proposals, for example, on this very 5.8 million distribution. Now, you gave the Lithuanian example. I don't think I'm wrong to say that in Lithuania, catering stations are probably closed. I don't think I'm wrong if I say so. I'm sorry if I share the wrong information, but this situation is still very different. Everything in Estonia is open. If we can control this virus, do as many tests as possible, if as many close contacts as possible and those who have received the COVID-19 will remain self-insulated today, it will be a very big job, but it will help to control the virus as much as possible. The Health Board and the Police and Border Guard Board will certainly help to do this. But it is also true that today we are seeing, in principle, the spread of the virus everywhere: in the social field, in the education sector, in the sport sector, at funerals, at parties. Unfortunately, it is that, in principle, the virus spreads everywhere and self-discipline, these same confidence measures, masks, disinfection are very important. Let's also review the wage subsidies. Thanks to the Riigikogu, the government has also been allocated opportunities, for example, to make certain allowances for the sector from the reserve. That is what we have done very much, indeed, particularly in the social and health field. And one way or another, you have to come back to the unemployment fund measure at one point, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U225	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Analysts have said a lot about how this year's health crisis affects various areas. Of course it affects tourism, architecture, it is said that teleworking has come to stay, etc. I ask you to make one such free vision for the future that for how long or how tourism endures. I know that tomorrow the government will be together, I think it'll decide again how much to limit, etc. But since we have a tourism issue here, how long will tourism last in this changed situation? Even if it is possible to pay wage subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U227	Thank you. I guess it's a little different. When it comes to companies that have built up their activities mainly by offering tourism services out of Estonia, it can be said that the sector is in a very, very difficult situation today. I think that there are many companies that are no longer operating there are many people who are no longer working in these companies. The reason is that trips from Estonia are not actually taken out, but the sale of package travel has basically stopped. Now that there is also a difficult situation, as I said, is indeed the capital, the old city. A little lighter, I think, is all about domestic tourism. Perhaps you might even say that in some places it is the result, I cannot say that very good, but good or satisfactory. Somewhere! It is clear that, in the event of conferences, we will see that there is, in principle, no more foreign conferences. If so, there are very small groups. The fact that we're doing conferences somewhere online, of course it's great, it has to be acknowledged, but it's no substitute for foreign conferences. It's clear as day. We have made some specific decisions on tourism, some specific decisions that may have helped some of the events. I remember here in the Riigikogu speech chair, for example, the Black Nights Film Festival, where a small difference was actually made, then the WRC World Championship Rally Estonia. We've made a certain distinction in cooking, for example, but we can't say that we invited tourists to Bocus d'Or, that's where foreign teams, or cooking teams, went. So no distinctions we have made, but I think that this international dimension in terms of conferences and other events is practically gone at the moment. How long will the sector last? Maybe it's a question of when the vaccine comes. But no one can say that today, unfortunately. Neither can I say, I have no information here today in the Riigikogu Chair to tell you that the vaccine will be present or present. I think that coming to the tourism sector is, of course, extremely important. Now, what we have been trying to give to rural tourism operators is different guarantees and loans through the Rural Foundation, but it is clear that not everyone qualifies for it and it does not help them. I hope spring gets easier. But spring will be in months, six months. And, of course, we can see that unfortunately in this sector, I think it is true that many will remain unemployed. Many companies in this difficult situation cannot survive. We are trying to help this sector, as far as possible and as quickly as possible, so that this sector can recover.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U228	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U229	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Today, the law on foreigners was under discussion in the Committee on Rural Affairs. We also discussed the wage requirements for short-term work in different sectors. One of the things that came through was that catering and accommodation, according to the figures, seems not to be a highly paid job sector. Could this be the reason why the government is so lukewarm about these subsidies to maintain a critical mass of qualified workers in accommodation facilities? The sector itself has said that it would need it to live up to the moment that markets are opening up again in some ways. Could that be the result?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U230	Thank you. I think the logic is completely different. Logic is that if we take the workforce that comes from outside Estonia, we say that in certain sectors seasonal workers really have to be paid the average wages of the sector, say, to a highly qualified workforce. And perhaps with a factor of 0.8, the average wage in this sector will have to be paid to those who work in the same sector, but in a slightly less qualified position. What does that mean? On the contrary, it shows today, on the one hand, that when foreign workers come in, we have the knowledge of what the average sectoral salary is. But it is up to the employer to decide how he distributes his work team, how many workers on the ground and how many workers from outside. It is clear that certain changes were actually needed in such a crisis situation. But really, it's only one category of seasonal workers. We have, say, foreign labour from third countries in most areas quite different or with qualifications other than seasonal workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U231	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U232	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I think it is very right that we look at what our neighbours are doing in Latvia, Lithuania, Finland. And my question is whether, before you make these decisions, you will also see what good measures are being taken elsewhere. In Finland, it is claimed that a small enterprise can send its employees for 200 consecutive days on compulsory leave reimbursed by the State and, if necessary, for another 200 days before being obliged to pay redundancy benefits. However, in Estonia, the companies affected by the crisis are between two bad choices: either to pay the full contractual salary or, for example, to pay the redundancy allowance for employees with a ten-year period for 3 + 1 months. And the idea you have put forward of using a business model measure and EU funds, and it seems to me that they are not very much implemented, because if entrepreneurs do not survive the crisis and workers are made redundant, they will not be applied to anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U233	Thank you. Surely we are looking at other good practices, good experiences. What can I say? You are now comparing us with one of the richest, most prosperous countries in the world, Finland. And I think that's a good comparison. I think that the aim of Estonia should certainly be to bring its standard of living or prosperity as high as it is in Finland at one point. Yes, I know this measure in Finland. There is no measure in Estonia, you know it as well as I do. It is just that this measure is, on the one hand, so expensive for our country that whether we can withstand such a measure, as you say, for 200 or even 400 days. So it's basically over a year and a month. Yes, we are certainly considering and we will certainly look at the measures that Latvia and Lithuania are also doing. Like I said, in some places we've chosen a slightly different path. It's because we've been able to control the virus to some extent. But that doesn't mean that the virus will be controlled tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. This could get out of hand. And I have said that we are, in any case, with the current tendency to enter such a crisis phase very quickly. That the situation is extremely critical in terms of the spread of the disease, the indicators of the disease, show the last two or three weeks. So that really worries me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U234	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U235	Thank you. Prime Minister! Urve Tiidus has already tried to ask about this planned government debate tomorrow, but I did not hear you reply. Can you tell us today whether you are planning restrictions tomorrow that could once again have a direct impact on the tourism sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U236	Thank you. If there was a specific question, I apologise for going over it. I realized that it was more of a vision question of how long the tourism sector would last. But the answer to you: I think that certain limitations that should be discussed are as follows. One of the aspects of wearing the same mask is not directly limited, but I think visitors should start using the mask more. The second aspect is that when we talk about dining places, there should be a little bit of a definition of the dispersal requirement and maybe go over to the fact that there are certain meters between the tables. But I don't want to say here that this means restoring the 2 plus 2 rule. Because when we restore it, it basically means that the activities of interest are lost, sports activities are lost, and the opportunity to go to a cafeteria or somewhere else with our friends disappears. I think we should try to do this a little bit more flexibly right now. I'm sure we'll discuss that. And what else needs to be discussed: I think that at some point we still have to discuss the restrictions on alcohol sales after 24:00. We see that there's still a lot of this country, the police, the health department fooling around when they say they're buying some sort of voucher or, I don't know, getting a number in the wardrobe, and then you can go shopping with it after 24:00. That was never the point. I think these are some of the points of debate that the government will discuss tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U237	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U238	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! In your previous answers, you have said several times that not only is there a very serious crisis in the tourism sector, but there are still these sectors. Can you tell me where there's a comparable crisis? We know that in the tourism sector, in some areas, turnover has fallen to virtually zero. What are the other areas where there is a comparable crisis to what the government is dealing with and where it needs to find resources in addition to tourism? And the other part of the question is this: given that the turnover of tour operators has completely fallen away, and obviously no one is arguing against this, that we would like these companies to exist in Estonia in the future, and that we would not only buy these services from the outside, which you would recommend to them, how to survive these difficult times?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U239	Thank you. After all, the tourism sector can also be very splintered on the one hand, but certainly entertainment, the whole cultural sector, various forms of culture have been hit very hard by this crisis. Point one. If you're asking for comparable numbers, no, comparable numbers I'm not going to tell you as a percentage. The construction sector is certainly very concerned today. I've met an umbrella organisation in the construction sector. They say that the private sector's orders have actually disappeared for the next few years. This is a very serious decline in the construction sector, where they want these countercyclical investments. And there is also a request to the Riigikogu that if you are discussing next year's budget, we have foreseen certain countercyclical investments there, then think very seriously and consider it. There are, of course, more of these sectors. We have made separate grants for small and medium-sized enterprises supported through EAS. And also such, let's say, high-tech companies to whom we have supported once orders have fallen off. Well, I remember that so-called special decision, which is a lot upset about, I brought it out before Tallink. Or, for example, Magnetic MRO, thanks to state support, the company certainly gained more security and, as far as I know, they have also received a lot of repairs, aircraft maintenance and repair. Is that a direct link? I can't tell you this, but I'm sure it's helped keep the company going. So there are sectors. I think basically all sectors have been hit. If you're asking if you've been hit equally... Well, the truth is, what you're saying is that tour operators have been hit 100% or 99%. The tourism sector, the organisation of conferences, the organisation of concerts, together we can say that this is all entertainment, I think there has probably been the biggest hit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U240	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U241	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister! This draft budget for 2021 was still a surprise. We have spoken here, and little that the first blow, the strongest blow, was all about tourism. At the same time, tourism is somewhere between 7 and 8% of our GDP. Perhaps this is still a very significant area and an area that served our society very well. There's no way you can write it off lightly. We don't know what will happen by spring, but obviously the life force in this area will have to be borne out to new challenges. At all, the issue of the tourism sector is that, when we are experiencing an economic crisis, regions often tend to be those who are more affected than the metropolis. In the area of tourism, however, it is very clear in this case that the metropolis is a greater sufferer than other regions. For other regions, particularly rural tourism, has its own specificity. Accommodation sites are filled, but indisputablely, big things like foreign groups have fallen away, just like business events, which have been an important part of the activities of tourism companies. Tourism companies themselves have tried to find a solution to the situation and have worked well together. In the context of today's debate, I have been in contact with various tourism companies and also with a central organisation. And say what? Here are two important and meaningful proposals that can be made in this situation. One is the subject that Felix Mägus presented here three weeks ago when there was a debate on a particularly important issue: it is a continuation of the wage subsidy of 45 million, which could keep 50% of the people working in the field on the payroll until spring. It is a critical number of people from a tourism perspective to meet the new period nicely in the spring. The second thing that has come out of this debate is that we must also look very sensibly at what is happening with our competitors. There are Estonian tourism companies who are active in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. If they describe how measures like KredEx have been implemented in Lithuania, it turns out that they have been implemented in a much more flexible way for the entrepreneur than Estonia does. All these things need to be reviewed. By the way, this is not just about tourism companies. This is actually also the case in other areas of the economy, where we must certainly see that our businesses are not in a worse position than our neighbours in these emergency measures. What have we heard here today? I can't blame the government for discussing and watching, but it's November. The classic period of tourism has long been over and is expected very clearly... Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U242	Yeah, it could be. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U243	Great! They're waiting for what's gonna happen now. What's going to happen with relatively simple things? Even on the subject of the unemployment fund and the implementation of the wage measure, swift decisions should be taken. The news came today that the Swedish Government has extended its wage measure by six months. We should also decide these things in the same way so that there can be some certainty in all this area that can be taken into account in winter and cannot be taken into account. So we need strength to work and we expect very clear and quick decisions from the government! Unfortunately, I have understood one thing: although tourism companies have come up with very well-considered proposals in MKM, Minister Siem has not yet reached the government with them. That makes it sad here after October. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U244	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U245	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The success of tourism in recent years is driven by the work of 5,000 companies and 30,000 people over the years. The share of tourism in Estonia's gross domestic product of 23 billion is 7.9%. The export of tourism services in 2019 was over 2 billion euros and accounted for one tenth of all Estonian exports. The State received EUR 181 million in taxes. In the introductory part of the budget for 2021, I read that the country is borrowing nearly EUR 2 billion for economic recovery. Throughout the crisis, the budget finds investment projects worth EUR 1 billion, which means that one billion will cover running costs and compensate for falling tax receipts. And the increase in Estonia's loan burden is insane, several times larger, compared to other European Union countries. When I started reading such an overexploited budget, I was quite convinced that I would find extensive measures in the chapter of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, not to revitalise tourism, but simply to keep it alive. I imagined that out of the EUR 2 billion money for economic recovery would be used to boost tourism by 150 to 200 million. The disappointment was immense. For the tourism economy, only traditional business development and marketing measures were planned, as if there were no corona restrictions. The turnover of the tourism core companies has fallen by more than 80% from travel agencies, hotels and restaurants. Other sectors have not experienced even a similar decline. The construction sector has been talking about its vision for the future. As no projects are ordered, in the coming years, I may draw down, so private orders may decrease. However, if we read the latest reviews of the real estate market, we will know that there has been an initial increase in both turnover and the average price per square metre. So the projections in the construction sector look to the future. How the future will develop, we don't know. Tourism is part of the area of Minister Siemi, who, together with the budget, presented his plans to use the RRF, or the fund to support the recovery of the crisis. There, too, no measures were foreseen for the tourism sector with a single euro apart from traditional digitisation. But digitalization can still actually be done with existing hotels and restaurants and their services. Tourism representatives have made a number of proposals to ensure that the tourism economy survives the crisis. In particular, it was desirable to extend the well-functioning wage subsidy measure in the spring strictly to enterprises in the tourism sector, while maintaining it for the next six months, when a critical number of professional tourism workers should be kept on the payroll. To this end, 20 million are available as the residual amount of the spring measure of the unemployment fund and 25 million should be allocated from the 2021 budget. Today we have heard that the representatives of the trade unions and of the Chamber of Commerce in the Council still agree to the extension of the unemployment fund measures for the tourism sector, but the government has not reached an agreement among itself. Indeed, eight months have passed since the beginning of the crisis and tourism has not recovered, especially the flagships of Estonian tourism, which bring tourists to the centre of Tallinn, bring tourists to the country and give the lion's share of Estonian exports. I would like the government to think about what incomes they will deprive Estonia of if they leave the tourism in the cold, as well as small businesses that were allowed to adjust the measures to the existing residue from the EAS. I do not think we can finally list all these small businesses, the organisers of events, the tourist farms, the recreational attractions that operate around the core services of tourism. For them, however, a tax refund could be considered rather than a more or less random ruler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U246	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U247	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in this current viral depression, where we are, we all agree that, in addition to ensuring the capacity and preparedness of health institutions, hospitals, the most important thing is to focus precisely on helping the sectors that have been hit most and most painfully. Tourism and tourism-related enterprises and sectors are certainly among them. We all know about the tourism sector, we all know how entrepreneurs themselves are now making absolutely crazy efforts to survive. A huge number of jobs have already been made redundant, places are being sought to be more effective, where to save, new models are being tried to emerge from the crisis. And that, among other things, I think that obliges us, on the national side, to help those businesses and business sectors that are making a serious effort themselves. This crisis has not depended on, and does not depend in any way on, these companies themselves. They will not be able to survive this crisis without state aid, without state support. The specific nature of crisis assistance is, in my opinion, that crisis assistance must be rapid. It must be effective, precisely targeted where it is most needed in the current crisis, certainly in those sectors where we believe in sustainable competitiveness and its competitiveness on the arrival of a functioning vaccine. Otherwise, there might simply be a situation where there is a very long wait and a lingering crisis aid only arrives when there is no one else to offer it. Unfortunately, with this effective and quick help, things are not going to be very well at the moment. One example of the EAS measure that we are talking about here today is how the filters on top of them have ruled out a very large part of the travel businesses that have been left in trouble. If the maximum amount of aid is EUR 60000, it is unfortunately impossible for very many to obtain real aid from it. The tourism sector itself must certainly be heard. This is too important, too big, too much of a job or a sector to take a different view of it. The tourism sector itself has said that, in order to survive the crisis, the support they need is a minimum of EUR 45 million. And I think it is appropriate to recall, when discussing the subject of this debate today, that we are also discussing the state budget here in these weeks, where there is an opportunity to show that we are not only talking, but also having real capacity to allocate money. One amendment to the state budget has been made by the Reform Party Group precisely to support the tourism sector. I think this is one of the examples where there should be no such party features in times of crisis. If anyone has complaints or other suggestions regarding the source of the cover, this must also be discussed. The most important thing is that the message to the sector in distress is that we are offering help and that this aid will also be certain of the next budget. I very much say that I hope that this proposal, which will partly alleviate the concerns of the tourism sector through the budget for next year, will all of us be able to support it very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U248	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, so the negotiations are closed. Would the Prime Minister like a final word? No, I don't. We have dealt with today's third item. Thank you to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U249	Let's keep going. Today's fourth item is an inquiry by Riigikogu member Heidy Purga on 17 September 2020 to the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps, about the transition to Estonian-language education. I'm asking Heidy Purga, I'm asking you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U250	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, As it just sounded, the inquiry I handed over reached the addressee on 17 September and it was as follows. On 22 October 2019 the Riigikogu adopted the decision "Proposing the Government of the Republic to strengthen the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language," which assigned the government the task of developing a plan for the development of education in the Estonian language, starting with early education, which provides sufficient language skills to continue studies in the Estonian language at the next levels of education and lifelong learning. The aim is to ensure comprehensive opportunities to learn and use Estonian in formal and non-formal education. To date, the Ministry of Education has prepared a draft "Estonian Language Development Plan 2021 to 2035" and a draft "Educational Development Plan 2021 to 2035." The Ministry of Education and Research has outlined strategic objective No. 3: "Estonian school education has mostly gone to Estonian-language school education" in the "Estonian Language Development Plan 2021. 2035." The "Educational Development Plan 2021"2035 is a long-term goal to develop a plan for the development of education in Estonian starting with early childhood education, which provides sufficient language skills to continue studies in Estonian at the following educational levels. Estonian and foreign languages are taught so that all Estonians can speak Estonian and at least two other languages. However, there is no coherent proposal under the lines of action of the development plan that are being carried out to meet the objective. In this regard, I had the following questions for the Minister for Education and Research. First, please explain why the Ministry of Education and Research has abandoned the plan to start developing education in Estonian from pre-school education in two development plans so that children can continue their studies in Estonian at the following educational levels. Secondly, what is the schedule of the Ministry of Education and Research to develop a plan for the development of education in Estonian from early childhood education? And what is the time frame of the plan, and who are the responsible? Thirdly, how many budget resources have been planned for developing education in Estonian from early childhood education in the state budget strategy 2021 to 2024 so that children can continue their studies in Estonian at the following educational levels? And the last question, the fourth: which activities and to what extent have been funded in the state budget of 2021 for the development of education in Estonian from early childhood education so that children can continue their studies in Estonian at the following educational levels? Those were questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U251	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, the chair is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U252	Dear Riigikogu! Good inquisitor! Indeed, it is a great pleasure to share ideas, as the heir has already said, on the topics of the two development plans, which are most likely to be discussed in greater depth in this Chamber at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year and before that in the Committee on Culture. First of all, when it comes to the Estonian-language education development plan, the Riigikogu proposed to draw up such a plan. The development plan for Estonian language in 2021 has stated that it is also necessary to draw up a plan for the development of education in Estonian. When looking at further steps, quite recently, on 29 October, the Government of the Republic sent an Estonian language development plan to the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu has adopted this procedure and, as I said, it is very likely that the Committee on Culture will be able to discuss this matter in the near future. The development plan states that the plan for the development of education in Estonian must be developed, and I believe that the Riigikogu will also give its own guidelines during the discussion of the large hall. There will certainly also be proposals from the Committee on Culture that could be envisaged in this plan. Similarly, as the heir has already said, in point 3.1 of the Development Plan for Languages, it is now a little more specific that this [transition] must be step-by-step. Early childhood education must be started and, step by step, the ability of the Estonian language to go to the next level of education must be ensured at every level of education, and of course it will also provide an opportunity for lifelong learning. What will be the following activities in support of the development plan? The first is to provide high-quality Estonian language learning in early childhood education. In addition to the good quality of Estonian-language learning, it is necessary to ensure that different methodologies are applied. For example, the language immersion methodology could be extended so that, depending on the way the language immersion methodology is used in a particular group of early childhood education, it is already taught in Estonian. A professional Estonian teacher in kindergarten is a topic to which I will come back in a moment to answer the following questions. Our method seeks to ensure that education in early childhood education takes place in Estonian. As there are several teachers in the group at the same time, children will immediately be given the necessary support and methodology. We also have university support. It is also important that graduates of basic school with a different native language from the Estonian language have sufficient knowledge of the Estonian language for further education and labour market delivery. To this end, we have started a project of a professional Estonian-language teacher two years ago. I must say immediately that the start has required more start time, because sufficient support for teachers has required significantly more preparation by both university and mentors. But the project started this year, and it's definitely moving on. The universities, especially the University of Tallinn, who have been there since the beginning, have certainly also become much more experienced, and with the following groups this start will certainly be faster. If necessary, additional training and equalisation of Estonian should also be taken into account. There has also been talk about this in this hall. An important issue that must not be underestimated is the subject of higher education and scientific language. There have also been debates on this in the Riigikogu and there have certainly been debates on this in the Committee on Culture, because the development and introduction of sectoral language development and all the know-how can be organised in all areas. We must not leave out any areas here. The development of higher education curricula in Estonian is also a constant challenge and the debate on this in the indirect sense was also today in the Committee on Culture. The story was just that in higher education we need to look at what these additional measures and conditions are to ensure the real competitiveness of higher education in Estonian. The second question you had was about the time frame and the responsible. Perhaps the most clear answer is that, firstly, the development plans have both been transferred. We must consider that the development plan will be adopted. First, they are discussed in the Riigikogu with suggestions on how they can be supplemented. Then they come back to the leadership groups. For example, in the case of the Estonian language development plan, not only is the Ministry of Education and Research with its best experts, but also the Language Council is a broad-based steering group in the field of education. In any case, the proposals go back there. I assume that the Riigikogu wishes to introduce certain changes here, after which they will be approved by the Government of the Republic. The best time frame that I can propose today in a probable scenario is the first half of 2021. This is certainly also the time when we need these sub-programmes, because the plan to develop education in Estonian is one of the pillars of our future activities. This is what we need to set a goal for ourselves, but it is also necessary to mobilise European money. Either way, it's got limits on it all. The third question is about money. The very first issue, which is very important to us, is that the EFSF, or the Structural Funds, has a very large share of Estonian-language education in 2021-2027: EUR 32.2 million of European funds and EUR 13.8 million of co-financing, a total of EUR 46 million. In any case, it is a significant amount. For example, there are 25.5 million euros in sub-divisions for programmes such as the educational programme and the language programme, which also include additional activities to support Estonian language learning and Estonian language learning. This is the overall volume of resources. The fourth question is about the state budget for 2021. In addition to European money and co-financing, we still have a series of rather traditional sub-programmes, which are more than a decade old, and of course we will continue all these activities. There are also research programmes that are very strongly relevant to this issue. The entire Institute of Estonian Language and the Language Board are working on this. These amounts will, of course, be added to the budget for 2021. I tried to put you together with this overview, got a whole A4. When I say this briefly, there are some significant programmes that should be highlighted. For example, the same professional Estonian teacher in kindergarten. Today, thanks to this first year, the kindergartens gained 53 teachers, in the second year 50, this year we wish to send another 50 teachers to the kindergartens. These 50 have come from universities and much depends on how much and how many groups they are able to carry out further training and mentoring. As far as teachers in primary school are concerned, we have started from the first grade, but we certainly want to expand this activity. But, as I said, it took a little more time to develop comprehensive school measures. First feedback came in. We needed improvement, and that is what we started, and this year we certainly want to continue. But this does not replace, for example, the immersion that we are vigorously continuing. The language immersion programmes implement both early and late immersion with different measures. As you know, some classes are mainly Estonian-speaking; others are 40% Estonian-speaking. There are different measures in the language bath, there are also language training grants. The programme that we started this year is important, for example. You, members of the Riigikogu, also proposed that 1.7 million language learning grants should be distributed to schools where at least 40% of the studies are in Estonian, but where additional support is still needed. New immigrants also have their own program. There are separate measures to support this. There are also pedagogical counselling programmes and there is a 30% wage supplement for schools in Sillamäe and Narva. There are several teacher training and development programmes that we support separately in universities. There is also a pilot project for three schools, which aims to get the results of the Estonian language exam to C1, while we developed new exams and tests at C1 and B2. It was part of the program. The Institute of Estonian Language has several developments in the direction of the learner's language, with support from the NGO Refugee Council. We support the activities of the World School, I believe it is close to the heart of many of us. There are Sunday schools for ethnic minorities and there are a number of activities that are certainly linked to language learning. There are a number of smaller programmes, student exchange programmes, youth projects, where Estonian language is part of the education of interest, there are separate measures and camp grants. The integration camp is one of the measures, but there are many others. In summary, so much. I understand that you have questions, and if there are any more specific questions, I will try to find the answers you need from the materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U253	Thank you. Indeed, there are questions. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U254	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, We know that more and more children from other native-language families are being placed in educational institutions in Estonian, both kindergartens and schools. It's very popular in the Valga area we both know. The number of pupils in Valga Elementary School is increasing, by children with Russian native language. The trend is exactly the same in kindergartens. But both Valga Elementary School and Valga Estonian-language kindergarten are struggling with the fact that they do not receive enough support to support these bilingual children in their studies. Please give an overview of the state's support measures in educational institutions in Estonian to teach children in other languages!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U255	Thank you. I want to specify these numbers. Indeed, the numbers show the choices that parents of today's comprehensive school students have made. And it is true that very many children, whether multilingual or with a different native or home language, choose a school with an Estonian language of instruction. In 2019/2020, 4100 children in other languages studied at a school with an Estonian language of instruction. The data for this academic year will not be available until November. In addition, 1 000 students study under the English language curriculum and 7600 under the immersion programme. In total, we have 31000 native-language students from different Estonian languages as of 2019/2020 academic year. The rest of them study on the basis of Russian-language curricula, but there is also an indication in brackets that the proportion of Estonian in schools varies from 40%. So in today's Russian-language comprehensive school there can also be a very, very different content of learning. And as the good questioner knows, we have a lot of connected bilingual schools, so Russian-language learning can also be different. Now the case of Valga and other schools like this. Really, we've been over this. This year it is possible to ask the Ministry of Education and Research not only for support for the immersion programme, but also for students with a second-language language at school. This is again such an important point of debate. At the moment, the working group has proposed a certain percentage of the number of students required to receive support, and there has been feedback that some schools may not exactly fit into this percentage. The second thing is that this support is only this year, so maybe there wasn't enough information. I also said at the meeting in Valga that we will certainly try to communicate this information better to the schools. The third issue that must be taken into account, and which we have not finished discussing in the working group, I believe that we also need this debate in the Committee on Culture, in the political groups and in the large hall, is that we certainly need this debate when developing these development plans, how long then we will support the other native-language student in the school environment and what kind of support he needs. There are countries where, for example, this support will be implemented for three years, and there are countries that will only implement it for two years or a year. The reason is that the student will continue to be considered an integral part of this learning environment and the student body and, if he still has learning difficulties, will be considered a learning difficulty and will be supported as a student with learning difficulties and not as a student with a language problem. Then another year or two will be supported and the student is expected to have acquired the language. We must also see that when it comes to a school where teaching is still largely not done in Estonian, it is clear that this support for language learning will remain there at the end. If the language environment works and it can be seen that the student has actually mastered the subjects very well and does not need much support in learning, then perhaps we need to do a separate language group instead. If it is simply a separate group, then it must be supported so that this separate group can be done. On the basis of feedback, I cannot generalise now on the basis of one meeting in Valga, but in general, kindergartens across Estonia really need a lot of methodological support. As far as schools are concerned, I would say that very often they ask us to provide us with additional resources so that we can make study groups. These groups are not made solely on the basis of language; there may be other reasons: socio-economic background, home support, parent education, and many other factors. In short, it must be decided how long such measures are necessary, but it is clear that these measures are necessary at some point in time. We started this year and I hope that the schools will get this information and take advantage of this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U256	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U257	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am sure to thank you for this overview, but it must be said that, despite the various strategies, programmes, projects, language houses, immersion and, in fact, the overall high level of education in Estonia, we have not yet been able to create a coherent society in 30 years of freedom, and the skills of the Estonian language of many gymnasium graduates are still poor, because, as many professionals say, we start learning the language too late. It's a good thing we're even starting, of course. However, learning a language is not as effective as learning a language if it takes place immediately in preschool and in games. Today we are really facing the fact that we have two parallel school systems. We are spending taxpayers' trust and money because we have not dared to take a political decision to switch to a single Estonian-language education. Why don't we do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U258	Thank you. How long should we hold this debate? If you look at it pedagogically or educationally, then in fact, we do not have this debate for the first time, after all, the main question is probably, a good questioner, what do we mean by this 'transition'? If this answer is, as has been the case, that we are going to do in those regions where there are both Estonian and Russian-speaking students, forcefully and forcefully channel them together in order to become such an open school model, then I would remind you that the open school operates on a voluntary basis. This is a private school and parents can make their decision to do so. After all, this debate has not really reached much in society in terms of what this solution is. For example, are we going to stop putting together the first classes of the next or the next or whatever year of Russian-speaking schools? Or are we talking about a model that was made a few years ago in the Republic of Latvia, where it was said, in Russian-speaking Latvian schools, where teacher language levels vary, suddenly learn Latvian from one date? Let's just say, according to the reports, everything is great, but we also have this 60:40 system over the years, as a good questioner knows, with very mixed results. But what kind of transition is going to be here, there is certainly a need to take into account not only the political approach, but also the substantive opinions. Such forced targeting is not very supported. It is a very strong opinion that in certain areas the Estonian school must be supported as such. Having been a minister for quite some time, I know that there is actually a solution in Ida-Virumaa, but in this case the state must decide. Today's local governments, which have more than 80% of non-Estonian speaking populations, are trying to motivate them to teach the official language. No wonder their electorate or their local debate is not like that. They are ready to teach the Estonian language, but they are certainly not ready to say that today's teachers are no longer suitable for them. This is one reason why the country has not taken these steps. This debate must have gotten this far. For example, is the state prepared to set up state secondary schools in Ida-Viru County, which is in some way privileged, privileged? That's one question. In these areas, for example, in Tallinn or in another region, whether or not in Tartu, where there is a Russian-language school or an Estonian-language school, the content of the work of the schools must also be looked at. I think the lyceum of Õismäe is a very good example. It is actually a Russian-speaking school, but there are very different measures and the results of the exam are excellent. If you have not had the opportunity to meet these children, be sure to meet them, they speak very good Estonian indeed. In a transition, you might rather think about how we could support them even more and what measures Russian schools would need. If there is another school quite close to where there is a question of the language of instruction, and if we told the school tomorrow to teach in Estonian, the language level of these teachers certainly does not allow it. Rather, I believe, a good questioner, that the question has been about the content of this debate. One measure that we started, in addition to the immersion and all the other fine measures, is the so-called 'two teacher' programme, which is being used in very many European countries, especially in the case of new immigrants. In an indirect sense, it resembles a bit of a method that is also used by an open school, but an open school has a slightly different approach. The idea is that teaching is in principle done in Estonian, but this other teacher, who is a class teacher, supports students who would otherwise not possess this subject because of the language. Finns also use it, and it's quite interesting to watch. Anyone who hasn't had a chance, I highly recommend. The method is that they work in parallel in two languages, but dominant language is Estonian. Feedback from parents is very, very good in early childhood education. In basic education, we only apply it for the first weeks, which is too short a time to get feedback. I can't say it's a transition, but it's really in Estonian. Well, we're gonna have to expand these programs. The main thing is that it's not an excuse to do anything. If we just said one date, I'd be very worried. I also have a table of teachers' language levels, we have a number of A2-level teachers. If we tell these teachers today that you work in Estonian, they will certainly be ready to report it. But at level A2, I believe, we understand, it's not possible to teach. These are the facts we have to take into account, and the debate will continue. Why have we not been able to move to education in Estonian? I think history books will answer that one day. It'll be analyzed and written by a doctoral thesis. They will examine where these debates started and how late they started and what happened around it. The Estonian model will certainly be analysed in comparison with some others. But the fact that we have been forcefully engaged in several successive governments, I believe that the last 10 years of moving towards early childhood education in Estonian, is certainly more obvious at one point. I think I gave you an example at one of the last debates in this Chamber that about 2% of the children coming from the Russian group go to the first-class Estonian school. Of those children who come from either the Estonian language group or the strong language bath nursery, where dominant language is Estonian, more than 40% will go to the Estonian language school. So there's a difference. We can say that parents are already prepared in their attitudes, but it is difficult to make a real transition. Of course, we also need to discuss that there are very high thresholds in certain schools to get in. We don't love these quotas, but maybe under certain conditions we should consider that children may not write in advance "The Penguins are sitting on an ice bank." without mistakes when they speak another language at home. I guess we're gonna have to take these things into consideration in this debate, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U259	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U260	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You also pointed out in your reply the reference points for models used by other countries that have been successful. Let's see how Estonia is doing. I will give an example here of our neighbouring Latvia, which has been facing the same question for a very long time and has already decided to move towards a common country-language education. Compared to Latvia's experience, we seem to have several substantive differences. When Estonia has made development plans and strategies and it is as if it has started to implement them, Latvia has done early work both on informing and motivating teachers and on preparing for the establishment of support activities and services. For example, a wage supplement has been introduced to boost motivation for workers who are involved in the changeover. It can be argued whether this is the best solution, but it has worked so far. They have also set up a bilingual education centre that provides training for teachers, preparation of educational materials, etc. To sum up, Latvia has today reached the point that it is possible for them to start the transition to full national language learning. My question is: what action do you personally consider most effective in the action plan for the transition to education in Estonian, so that we can do this as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U261	Thank you. Lately, it is very popular to comment on things from other countries. I wouldn't take that courage, but I'd say I'm careful about the [Latvian model]. We actually have all these methodological centres, and I would commend the universities. Universities have very proactively considered and developed various methods and teaching materials. Rather, we have always been criticized that how many of these materials have been made by various European programmes since the end of the 1990s, although digital, though in paper form. Teacher training, both language teaching and content, has also been carried out. But we certainly lack further training for teachers of Russian-speaking schools on other subjects of substance. We grab a great deal of Russian-speaking schools in relation to Estonian, but the feedback is that they could actually be significantly more involved in content issues. That is what we have done with great force over the last few years. The training can take place peacefully in Estonian, we will ensure that they are able to come there. What do I consider most effective? First, the more parents dare to take this step to put a child in an Estonian-language school or in an Estonian-language kindergarten, the better. I very much support it. Second, extra teacher support. We have it, we also have regional subsidies. As I said, Sillamäe and Narva have received their 30% extra money. But with this historic support, the problem arises that at one point it will become historic support. With regard to the following measures, we must see that, if we support teachers financially, for example, this cannot become a mutual expectation. I'm sure it's a very big challenge. Personally, I very much believe in this two teacher program. I very much believe that those who like the immersion of the tongue will certainly provide very good support. There's no way you're gonna lose it. The language immersion has a very strong methodological background and long-term experience. I believe that all possible proposals made in the Riigikogu and which are certainly still being made are very effective. However, our schools and other educational establishments are autonomous. Universities' methodological centres carry out all sorts of new learning developments, and the approaches to learning are also positive examples. In addition, I very much believe in this. The more we can make young people work together through sports, dance and culture, through various events, and not in English, but in Estonian, the more effective. We do have examples where young people have learned Estonian very quickly at a sports club. It is necessary to organise camps, summer activities, home visits and student exchanges. Well, in corona time, maybe not so much, but in normal times. These are all good measures. In the education system, it would be good if we could find one for each class, not for each school, but for each class. Is this a immersion, is this two teachers, is this some kind of extra teacher support Maybe so much for the conclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U262	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U263	Good President! Good minister! A new venture, a professional Estonian-language teacher in the Russian-speaking group requires, I understand, the participation of an Estonian-language teacher in the work of kindergarten. I understand that this teacher does not have a requirement for higher education, a requirement for pedagogical education. Aren't you afraid that this will be fatal to this enterprise because it is frustrating for Russian teachers that there is now a national separation: who must have a pedagogical education and who doesn't have to? That the Estonian doesn't have to, the Russian does?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U264	Thank you for your question. No, we have no intention of reducing qualification requirements under any circumstances. It was just at the start of the programme that we had to reduce it because it also involves students and people who have other higher education, but they would be ready to become teachers as part of the Youth School programme. Since we are doing this in cooperation with Tallinn University and will definitely strengthen the contribution of the University of Tartu, we do not intend to reduce qualification requirements. But since the main emphasis on the first step was that he is an additional teacher and speaks Estonian as a native language, there were additional conditions. I am very grateful for this question. This proposal, in order to take this distinction into account at the beginning of the programme, came from the people themselves, but the qualification requirements remain the same and we will not reduce them. That is what we have today, and that is what the annual employment contract and all these other subsidies will be. But if you've found out about any kindergarten or school that it's a problem, please, let me know if it's anonymously, if the school doesn't want to tell itself. Although there are so few, it still comes out. Then we'll go over it again. But this proposal came from this group itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U265	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U266	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. These plans may all be very beautiful, but if we notice the rise of teachers' salaries at zero in the country's budget strategy for the next four years, all these beautiful plans could blow up. Can you say that in very specific terms? Some parents whose home or everyday language is not Estonian say that they would like to put their children in a kindergarten in Estonian, but there is no chance, also because local authorities are unable to offer it. How many years will it be possible to organise a transition so that there is an opportunity for early childhood education in Estonian everywhere? You are now a minister and are responsible for this area. How long do we have to talk about development plans and preparation in conditions where segregation in Tallinn is also an increasingly critical nuance in social terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U267	Thank you. We should talk more about nuances, but this format, one question and the answer, does not give this possibility. When we talk about Ida-Virumaa, there has been feedback from parents that there are not enough Estonian-speaking groups. And the next question is, how do we find teachers and what is this extra motivation? That's why we were looking towards Ida-Viru County for the extra teacher program. In the first round, additional teachers came to 10 kindergartens in Tallinn and 11 Ida-Virumaa. In the second round, the regions of Maardu and Ida-Virumaa, for example, were added which were not previously covered by the programme. Added 20 kindergartens. That's the first summary. Tallinn was inside the second half of the question. I could use more information about that. I have not received a signal that [other-language children] are not accepted into Estonian-speaking groups. My personal contact is through my aunt who works in the Estonian-language kindergarten in Lasnamäe, where most children have other home language and are very motivated. However, as next steps, I would not underestimate the importance of development plans. With as strong a wording as these development plans have been put on the table, I think it is clear that there is a expectation in society that even stronger steps will be taken. Early childhood education has come to the agenda very strongly in recent years. In my opinion, early childhood education as the first stage of education has undergone a marked change. The third question was the motivation of teachers. Firstly, I would like to make it clear once again that the country's budgetary strategy was not part of the implementation of this budget. This is an obligation because, in spring, the country's budgetary strategy could not be made in this form because of the COVID. All discussions on the four-year perspective of the budget negotiations will come in spring, and that is what I said to the teachers' representative organisations. As far as the existence or absence of money is concerned, the good questioner knows very well that there is much more money in the education fund than is needed to pay today's minimum wages. If the Riigikogu, in cooperation with trade unions, wants to raise the minimum wage for teachers, then there are funds for this now. The education fund has significantly higher resources than is needed to pay the minimum wage for teachers. So that's not the question. The question is that we would not, in one way or another, start cutting someone else's wages in the face of the economic crisis. But now for the further increase in teachers' salaries. As firmly as I stand on this board, I assure you that, of course, wages must rise, there is no question of that. This year, wage increases were halted throughout the public sector, unfortunately teachers are also part of the public sector. That is why it was said that such a decision would not be dared in the fear of the economic crisis. But I believe that in the spring, there will be a return to this issue and that there will be a wage increase in areas that have been said as preferences: education, internal security and social affairs. I really hope everyone keeps their word, and that's how it's gonna happen. Do we need additional motivation packages here? Yeah, they've been calculated over and over again. I guess we need to discuss this together. There are three different ways. The first is that we take out the same important issues: teachers working with multilingual students and teachers working in an area where the load is not full. There are other such questions. On the other hand, the good questioner is certainly aware that since 2013 the debate is about whether the career model of teachers will remain flat. Is the starting teacher and the 30 - year teacher, for example, who writes textbooks, still at the same level of pay? It is increasingly said that a teacher should also have a career model that allows for higher pay. What matters is where and with whom the teacher works. In the meantime, for example, a teacher works with children with special needs or with children who need some additional attention, perhaps working as a multilingual teacher in the meantime. The teacher may be moving between different schools, thus giving some additional input and increasing pay grade. This model has also been proposed. I believe that we will certainly come back to this in 2021, because the question of how we see the career model of teachers and also of school leaders is very strongly on the table. All the questions were answered. Do I believe that teachers' pay will rise? Definitely! Do I believe that the teacher's career model should be discussed with it? I think it is time to do this because just raising the minimum wage is one thing, another is to show a perspective to a young teacher, or even a middle-aged teacher. In light of this, it is also necessary to review the career model and grade structure of school leaders. There too, it is essential to give more certainty.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U268	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U269	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Today, the annual report of the National Audit Office arrived at the Members' table, and the subject is the future of priority public services. One very important issue is the lack of teachers in some areas, such as natural sciences and exact sciences. In this regard, I am asking about the same development plan for the next 14 years. If this immersion, modern technology and basic Estonian teaching progress and this interest is growing and there is a desire to improve it all the time, how do we ensure that these same children or young people are later taught in natural sciences and science in Estonian? Where do these teachers come from if they're not there right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U270	Excellent question! If I had all the good answers! First of all, what can we do for ourselves? I am certainly very grateful to the universities and we have been discussing with them in quite detail for several years now how we can still support them. Scholarships have been introduced. Perhaps scholarships should be increased, it could be a privileged area. The education sector has certainly gained a much stronger position in society than before. It is a pleasure to share with you the knowledge that, in 2020, three and a half thousand people wanted to start their studies as a student in the field of education. There were more applicants than ever. So in this sense, education is very popular. Reals. Today, the absolute number of real subjects is one IT. As we have set the whole IT area as a priority in the broadest sense, attention and resources have been strongly targeted. It has its own scholarship system, good reputation and what to deny, solid salary numbers for graduates and almost graduates. They have the most competitive salary numbers. This means that a very large part of the young people who are going to university today and who have the interest and the courage to devote themselves to science is moving into an IT-related area. As a result of this concern, we will start, together with the Association of Engineers, an IT-like engineering programme in 2021. We are trying to remind those people who love the real world that alongside the IT field, we also need to develop the whole field of engineering, technology and technology more widely. Why am I making such a long introduction? Because it is not just about those who are committed to science, but about who are going to be their teachers in the first place. There are practically no entrants to disciplines where the pedagogical module should also be completed and eventually stopped as a teacher. The question now is how to motivate people who are studying or already working in IT, technology or engineering to visualize teacher work as one of their professional choices. They could pass on their fantastic experiences to students and acquire pedagogical skills. This is what we and the universities see as a solution today. But for someone to come to a bachelor's degree today and say that he wants to be a physics teacher, we have to admit that, despite scholarships, despite many other bonuses, this is not the first, second or third choice for those interested in science or STEM subjects. Now for the positive side. Schools themselves have found among their graduates these lonely, bright - eyed young people who have been motivated by the school to become teachers. The "Youth School" programme is aimed at this, there is also "Back to School," and if you watch street campaigns, they are aimed at the real world. We have asked the IT sector to think along. If they came to work in schools or higher education in part time, it would help motivate young people to see that this is an opportunity. But we're missing science teachers today and tomorrow. I dare not even begin to answer the question of whether or not they would teach in Estonian. The question is that there are undoubtedly no teachers of science. Today, this deficit varies from region to region, but the future deficit is the most critical. On the positive side, there are more class teachers and several subjects than there are study places. So, what do schools do today, and how do they compensate for the missing teachers? If a school teacher comes from several subjects and one subject is a matter of science, then classes can be covered up to a certain level of basic school. A serious question arises at the end of comprehensive school and upper secondary school, where a specialist in the field is needed. Right now, teachers are being lured around. However, this is the solution. I am open to all proposals and solutions. Rather, we search side by side and try to find some teachers through "Back to School" or other programs. I am very grateful to the private sector. Those people working in the private sector today have found more and more motivation to come back to school and work with students at least part-time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U271	There is one question for a member of the Riigikogu. So Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U272	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is always very good to listen to you because you feel content and talk very thoroughly. You have also done so in the Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning, which I too have the opportunity to be a member of. If the coalition decided that we have two problem committees and one of them is the problem committee for the development of Estonian language learning, then there are therefore problems in this area. Today, as well as in the Commission, listening to you, it seems that everything is very well. Of course, there are many things that have been done well. At the same time, however, in this same committee, when I met both the [representatives] and the officials of the Ministry, I have realised that the use of data on the quality of education is not very targeted. Data are collected and it is understood that the picture is very different across Estonia, but nothing is done about it. Can you comment a little?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U273	I was in a bit of trouble with understanding the question, but I can say that the big data I mean in terms of data-data-data in terms of processing, we are more of an example to other countries. Where we definitely need additional support in terms of development, there are feedback tests and exams. They are more in this experimental phase and are being dealt with more and more. We try to support the school, the teacher, the parent, to know how his student, the class, the school is doing. Data back into schools maybe even more than teachers know how to use them. This is definitely a deficit, and we are not doing well with it yet. However, it depends on which side to look at. Well, we've made a big development, we're generally good, but there are places to worry. It turns out that there are differences in schools. We can say that, on the one hand, it is good because the differences compared to the OECD average are very small. But unfortunately, these differences are still significant. There are very wide differences in the motivation of teachers and perhaps also in the results of the exam, if that is a question. I may have answered once in the Committee on Problems that the results of the national examinations of Estonian are quite similar to those of other subjects. It may be that the knowledge of the Estonian language and the motivation to acquire the Estonian language depend very much on the overall academic motivation of the student. If the results of the Estonian language exam are much lower than the average, then the results of the mathematics exam, for example, tend to be quite similar. One can ask if there is a problem with learning motivation at all. But the other part of this question is what do we do with this data? Yeah, well, that's a criticism. The Ministry shall organise regular monitoring, accompanied by inspections and precepts. Perhaps the country has helped little in this regard. There are also precepts and, if you look at the language area, there are fines. It would be good if we could create more national motivational packages. The state comes to the aid and not only sends mentors but, for example, provides additional resources or helps to contact a university. This may be an area where we have not yet been able to do much. We'd rather have arranged and fought.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U274	Thank you very much. No further questions. It is possible to open negotiations. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U275	Good President! Good minister! Dear few colleagues in the Chamber! I will try to be brief. Listening carefully to the Minister, it was as if the picture did not come together. It is as if we have a mosaic in this matter of early childhood education. But we must start by saying that we cannot be satisfied with today's education for young people in Russian for a very simple reason. The latest Eurostat survey shows that while 20% of our students attend Russian-language comprehensive school, in higher education institutions they study at first level, in Bachelor's or Applied Higher Education, 15% means such young people. Thus, not all of them will receive higher education in the same way as Estonian young people. Only 7% have graduated from Russian-language comprehensive school in Master's degree. This shows very clearly that our current [education] landscape is not working. If you look at how many parents [in favour of English], 79% of Russian-speaking and 77% of Estonian-speaking parents agree that education in Estonian must start in kindergarten. 80% is the vast majority. It is never the case that everyone would awfully like to change, but also Estonian and Russian children to study together in a multilingual school can be seen with remarkable approval. In this situation, what can be done to switch to Estonian-language education, in part to Estonian-language education, in order to eliminate the mosaic and create a picture instead? To this end, I propose a solution by the Social Democrats, according to which in three to five years there will be a transition to the model, that there will be an Estonian kindergarten and there will be a language bath, where in the last two years before school, education will only take place in Estonian. Partial immersion means that from the age of three, part of the education in kindergarten is taught in Estonian, partly in Russian, half in Estonian, half in Russian. This does not mean the disappearance of Russian-language kindergarten teachers, which can be the first to blame here. No, if we think about kindergarten teachers and think about children and their future, then such a model that there are Estonian-language kindergartens, partial immersion and total immersion will lead us to success. We currently have 614 pre-school children's institutions in Estonia, of which 11% or 70 [in kindergarten] cultivates immersion. What's it gonna take? This requires a political decision that we really want to change rather than paint the kitchen wall white. We need to break the resistance of local governments, which some of them certainly have. We must solve the most important: the shortage of teachers. If there really has always been a bigger competition for teaching, then it is the pre-school teacher's specialty. What are the peculiarities of immersion? It does not teach a foreign language, but learns a foreign language, everything is done in one language. A kid learns faster this way. A language bath teacher is a very good kindergarten teacher who has a very good Estonian language skills and has obtained the relevant methodological knowledge. I myself have worked in the immersion class, and I know that such basic knowledge can be acquired in a few weeks. What else do we have to do? We must convince society that it is a good model, we must train teachers and allocate money for such a transition. So the key words are teachers, local governments and money, but above all the political will to create a single system so that Estonian children can learn in a single pre-school system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U276	Thank you very much. There is no further wish for negotiations. Does the addressee of the inquiry want to say anything? No, I don't. Then we will have finished dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U277	Now we have a free microphone. After hitting the hammer, it is possible to register for speaking in a free microphone. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U278	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about what I'm saying today from this high chair. Only recently, the spiritual mother of the Social Democrats, Marju Lauristin, said: "We all expect that on 3 November this major clown will fall and that the wave will begin to reach Europe. " No one, including Indrek Saar, the leader of the Social Democrats, said a single word. Not the President of the Republic of Estonia, no one. And in fact, this has been the case throughout President Trump's term of office. Our political elite has demonstrated their deep contempt for the US Head of State. The President of the United States and us, the EKRE, can be crumpled, labeled, slandered in the name of a sacred cause. Similarly, when former Minister of Foreign Affairs Madeleine Albright published the book Fascism, an advisor to Clinton, the presidential candidate of the Democrats who was defeated by Trump in 2016. Warning" and the main character of the fascism book was not Adolf Hitler or Benito Mussolini, but Donald Trump, President of the United States. He had much more room spent on him than Hitler, Mussolini, and others. By the way, after Fascist countries, Russia, Turkey, Hungary and so on, Poland too. And, of course, Albright and his globalism and new normality, the local disciples began the attack. When Prime Minister Ratas mistrust took place on 30 August 2019, a good colleague, Taavi Rõivas, asked him if he had read Albright's book Fascism. Warning" that shows where we're headed. But Taavi Rõivas failed to mention that the main character of the fascism book is the same President Trump. I am not going to present here many examples where the present American Heads of State have been ridiculed and attacked. It's been everyday. And that is why four years ago we created an unprecedented case in the Riigikogu: President Donald Trump's support group, which, by the way, was followed by Lithuanian colleagues, so that there is one in Seim. But why did we do it? It's completely unprecedented. The main point is in this support group's manifesto. There is a black in white: President Trump has clearly expressed his unwavering support for Estonia's independence as well as his commitment to NATO's allied duties. Nevertheless, unfortunately, we are seeing President Trump ridicule from week to week in Estonia as well. .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If we come to this day, where both our President and the opposition and the press have awakened and started to talk, complain about how we are damaging our security and attacking our basic political and military friend, the United States, then in fact it has already taken place throughout the [Trump Administration] period and no one's business to say that it should not and it is not good. But the real battle is life and death. Does the nation state matter? Is Sovereignty Important? Or is the basic philosophy of globalism and beyond everything else? This, by the way, is also referred to by Mr Lauristin, saying that he is looking forward to the wave that starts in America when this major clown disappears and this wave sweeps away a similar Trump-like approach to national sovereignty and nation states in Europe, probably in Estonia, Poland, Hungary and elsewhere. But in order not to talk any longer...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U279	Time, esteemed performer!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U280	I'm only showing the last... Speaking of Hunter Biden, the son of Joe Biden, here is the report by the two committees of the Senate, 87 pages long, describing these doubts quite thoroughly. But it's an internal matter of another country, and here we don't interfere. I'm just showing you that everything that's been said isn't made up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-09_U281	Thank you very much. There are no more requests. That concludes today's trial.
