ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 1st working week. It is possible to start by handing over drafts and enquiries. The members of the Riigikogu do not have the wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. Incoming check, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U2	On today's agenda, we have an item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Marek Jürgenson, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U3	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, According to the draft law amending the Citizenship Act, it is proposed to provide for a regulation in the Citizenship Act concerning the possibility of applying for Estonian citizenship in Estonia or, immediately after birth, with children under the age of 18 who resided permanently in Estonia, whose parent or grandparent lived in Estonia before 20 August 1991 and has undefined citizenship and the other parent is a citizen of another state. According to § 13 (4) of Estonian citizenship, the current Citizenship Act allows the grant of naturalisation to minors under the age of 15 who are born or who move to live permanently in Estonia immediately after birth with their parents or parents, from the moment of birth if the parents of the child or the parent raising the child alone, who is not considered by any state to be a citizen under the laws in force, have been legally resident in Estonia for at least five years at the time of birth. Article 14 of the Citizenship Act provides for the possibility for a minor to acquire Estonian citizenship together with his or her parent applying for Estonian citizenship. Thus, the current Citizenship Act guarantees the possibility of obtaining Estonian citizenship for a minor of undefined citizenship under 15 years of age and for a minor of less than 15 years of age who is a national of another country, if the parent applies for Estonian citizenship at the same time as the child. Thus, children born in Estonia under the age of 15 are currently not covered by the Citizenship Act provision and one parent has a citizen of another country and the parents wish to apply for Estonian citizenship only for the child and not for themselves. The draft law introduces the following changes: Paragraph 13 is supplemented by paragraphs 41 and 42. Paragraph 41: 'Alaeline, who is born in Estonia or who, immediately after birth, resides permanently in Estonia with the parent or parents of a permanent resident of Estonia and holds a residence permit or permanent right of residence for a long-term resident and whose parents are not considered by any State to be a citizen in accordance with the laws in force and whose other parent is a citizen of another country, shall receive Estonian citizenship at the request of a legal representative if the parent or grandparent of the minor was an Estonian resident as of August 20, 1991. ' Paragraph 42: 'For a minor referred to in subsection 41 of this section who is a citizen of another State, the decision of the Government of the Republic to grant Estonian citizenship shall take effect from the day following that on which proof has been furnished to the approved government authority of the Government of the Republic that the person is exempt from the citizenship of another State. ' In addition, it can be said that the purpose of the amendment is to guarantee minors born in Estonia whose parents or grandparents have lived in Estonia before the Republic regained independence, the possibility of obtaining Estonian citizenship by simplified procedure. The impact of the draft should be extremely positive. The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft between two readings on Tuesday 3 December 2019. In addition, I note that this draft had previously been discussed in plenary on 23 September. The deadline for tabling amendments was 5.15 p.m. on 7 October. Amendments were tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group, the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group and the Estonian Reform Party Group. The amendments of the Reform Party and the Centre Party Group were received after the deadline, which led to these proposals being ignored by the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. The amendment tabled by the EKRE Group was withdrawn on 2 December. The amendment by the Socialists in the Commission was not supported, one member was in favour of the amendment, namely Mr Ossinovski, five were opposed (Paul Puustusmaa, Marek Jürgenson, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik and Kalle Grünthal), with the abstentions from the Reform Party Vilja Toomas and Hanno Pevkur. The Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 15 January, or tomorrow, but it was amended, the draft was moved to this day, and the Commission's decision was consensual. The Commission was also consensual in order to appoint Marek Jürgenson as rapporteur. The following proposal was to conclude the second reading of the draft by Kalle Grünthal, Marek Jürgenson, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Paul Puustusmaa, against Jevgeni Ossinovski, Hanno Pevkur and Vilja Toomas, and there were no abstentions. I think this is a very good draft, which will make life for many people in the future considerably easier. I therefore ask you to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U4	Thank you. You have questions too. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U5	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! Yes, this bill deals with an important issue. But I might point out that you mentioned in your report that this concerns children whose parents or grandparents lived in Estonia before they regained independence. I do not know that Estonia would have regained independence. I know that in 1991 the continuity of Estonian independence was restored, or independence was restored. So, what's it really like?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U6	It is a technical matter and a matter of handling. However, Estonia's independence again, so I would stick to those words. That's exactly what the bill says.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U7	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U8	Good manager! Good waitress! I read here that § 13 is supplemented by paragraphs 41 and 42. I read this 41, it begins with that minor who is born or who is born immediately after birth with Estonian permanent residents etc. What do you mean, 'now', how long is this 'now', is it one hour, one day, one week, one month, one year or ten years? Or is it 'now', say, 1991 until now, almost 20 years? How much could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U9	I think the drafters know that in more detail. At this point, I owe you an answer, but I think it's some reasonable time anyway, what this 'now' means.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U10	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U11	Thank you. I come to the most important drawback of this bill. In fact, the explanatory memorandum states that 1523 children could acquire Estonian citizenship, but to 91% of them this possibility of citizenship is apparent, because the Russian Federation does not exempt them from their citizenship before they become adults and consequently they do not actually receive Estonian citizenship under this bill. The Socialist amendment was in order to actually treat all children equally, as double citizenship among minors is generally allowed in Estonia. In the Commission, the Centre Party made a similar amendment, but for some reason it has not been reflected in the protocol that it was not really discussed, unlike the amendment tabled by the Reform Party beyond the deadline. The chairman of the committee said that there has been an agreement with the Centre Party, and you have given up your desire to actually give all children the opportunity of citizenship. Could you explain your vote against the Social Democratic Party amendment and that you really do not want to give Estonian citizenship to this target group, but want to restrict this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U12	Thank you. Even Andrei Korobenik was the one who said at this committee meeting that the draft does not only concern the citizens of the Russian Federation. In fact, the Ministry of the Interior has also given quite exhaustive answers at this meeting of the Commission. So, therefore, we have also voted against this amendment of yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U13	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It seems to me that I hope I do not remember wrong that the draft at first reading was the rapporteur of the Commission, Andrei Korobeinik. Can you explain what happened in the committee and why the waitress has changed? The corobian is in place today and at work completely, he's not on a mission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U15	Thank you. In fact, in October we changed our roles with Andrei Korobenik, I moved from the Committee on Legal Affairs to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and Andrei went to the Committee on Legal Affairs instead of me. Due to the fact that he is not the main member of the Commission, Andrei cannot present this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U16	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U17	Thank you. I have now heard in this Chamber, in the meantime, that there was a debate in the committee on this subject, but in fact, the explanatory memorandum does not record how long it is. There can't be such an answer that 'now' means that the legislator will say it for the sake of the law. The legislator is the Riigikogu. If we are to take a decision here, we still need to be very clear that even if the explanatory memorandum were to be written, what a long period, for reasons, why and so on. It makes sense that there may be a cure or some complications are in childbirth or whatever. But some number or reasons should at least be in the explanatory memorandum, unless it is stated in time here. Was there a debate in the Commission on this, and are these things accidentally left out of the explanatory memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U18	Thank you, good questioner! There was no debate in the Commission, although I agree, yes, that your observation is very correct. But indeed, in the Commission, we did not have such a fixed-term or numerical debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U19	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U20	Thank you. From your first reply, I conclude that the problem for the Centre Party is not that 91% of the target group of this draft cannot actually be Estonian citizenship immediately after it has been applied for, but must wait 18 years before the right is realised. But my question of continuing on this subject is legal. The Chancellor of Justice has said in his reply to my written question that if the Riigikogu wants to treat different groups differently, in this case children of different positions, it must be justified, among other things the Riigikogu must carefully assess whether this is justified. The Chancellor of Justice makes it very clear that the actual target group for which more favourable conditions are created is estimated to be 130 children, not 1523 as stated in the explanatory memorandum, and that the state must not act in a word-breaking manner or give misleading messages. Consequently, I will give you the opportunity to tell you how many children, according to this bill, will potentially be entitled to Estonian citizenship over the next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U21	Thank you. We have this number right here. Immediately it was 130 and something, although yes, we have 1523 children under the age of 18 registered in the population register. So these numbers are actually, I guess, in a sense, a little speculative. We're talking about some numbers here. What will be the actual situation after the adoption of this law, we will see that from next year's statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U22	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U23	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You said in your report that the EKRE Group had tabled an amendment to this draft law which they have withdrawn. In the interest of the minutes, could you please clarify what was the content of this amendment and why the EER Group decided to withdraw this amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U24	Why did the ECRE Group withdraw this amendment? It was, I think, the group's own decision. This was not discussed in detail at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. No matter what, it was not discussed at this meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U25	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I wanted to ask you about the content of this proposal, but you have already responded that it was not discussed either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U27	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U28	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! What is your personal assessment, why are these 1523 130 children, about 1300 children, not eligible for Estonian citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U29	I think the Home Office officials have done a very thorough job. The exact wording of this bill now is, in my opinion, correct. I think this is a very good draft, and I think one big step in recent, not even years, but one can say that in decades when the citizenship law is amended in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U30	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U31	Thank you, Mr President, Honourable waitress. Mr Ossinovski referred to the concealment of certain information from the Russian Federation or to the fact that it is quite difficult or, in principle, impossible for these children to make clear whether they have Russian citizenship or whether it can be abandoned. Was it in the wider debate whether the Estonian state is going to do something about this, or whether it is going to make any changes based on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U32	Thank you. There was no such discussion at the Commission meeting as to whether any cooperation with the Russian Federation would now be undertaken in this particular case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U33	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a little feeling at second reading, like there wasn't a first reading. Of course, the Commission's waitress is going away now and is not well-informed about this law, one could listen. Then we'll have to break the problem again. What's the problem? Of course, the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia has a perfectly legitimate right to decide whether or not naturalisation rules are made more favourable to one target group or another. This is a completely legitimate debate, where differences can be political, world-viewed, etc. I am not arguing at the moment whether this target group, 1523, has been chosen in the most reasonable way or not. The Social Democrats had a slightly broader proposal last year, almost 8 000 people would have received simplified Estonian citizenship, but this 1523 is a political agreement; it is not the result of the great work of the Ministry of the Interior officials, as the Ministry of the Interior itself confirmed, it is a political agreement and I accept that. If this is a political agreement, it is a political agreement. But that's not the question. It is a question of this additional clause, which is in this draft, which says that in order to actually realise this right, you must abandon your previous citizenship. This is not a bad thing in itself, it could be, but we know that these cases have already passed through this Riigikogu in the previous and previous formations that the Russian Federation Act, Article 17 of the Citizenship Act, does not allow the minor to be released from the citizenship of the Russian Federation. I can't. I just can't. As a result, 91% of those children for whom a major step is now being taken for over 20 years, as Mr Jürgenson said, cannot actually realise this right to citizenship. And that's making fun of people. Recently, a real person wrote Alla to the Riigikogu and asked when the law was finally passed, he wants to apply for citizenship for his son. I hope that he is a citizen of Ukraine, not a citizen of the Russian Federation, because the answer to most of the people who are currently watching and waiting for this law to be passed is that the state fee of 13 euros will be paid, the application will be submitted, you will receive a paper signed by Jüri Ratas, that the government has ordered you to be a citizen, then you can put it in the family archives for 18 years and, if the laws of the Republic of Estonia do not change during this period, in 18 years you may be an Estonian citizen. It's a mockery of people, you shouldn't do that. The Socialist amendment aimed at resolving this issue and treating all children equally, at children who are in the general logic of the Citizenship Act and today can be multi-citizens until the age of 18. If you become an adult, you can decide whether to remain an Estonian citizen or a citizen of another country. Hopefully and generally in such cases, this child will remain a citizen of the Republic of Estonia. This amendment was not supported by the Coalition. In fact, the Centre Party tabled more or less the same amendment or purpose; this proposal was not discussed, although the amendment that arrived at the deadline for the Reform Party in the Commission was discussed. Paul Puustusmaa told the Vice-Chairman of the Centre Party Group that the Centre Party has agreed that there is no need to discuss your proposal, let's not waste any time. Of course, here one member of the coalition from another party said that our goal is to give as little citizenship as possible. All right. From a weather point of view, it can be understood that as little is desired as possible, but the question is legal. As a result, I have also turned to the Chancellor of Justice to refrain from making promises that the state does not actually comply with, the state must not act wordlessly and treat people unduly differently when granting rights. Consequently, and since the representative of the Centre Party, Mr Korobenik, has released a powerful press release on how the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, together today, oppose children being granted Estonian citizenship by a simplified procedure, I would like to improve. Indeed, we are opposed to mocking people, Mr Korobeinik. It is very embarrassing to laugh like this and to make such press releases to cover up your embarrassing behavior is even more embarrassing. Consequently, we propose that the second reading of this draft be interrupted so that it is actually possible to delve into this issue a little further and, in the second attempt, not to impose any unjustified restrictions... I'd like some more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U35	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U36	... and at the second attempt, however, to consider carefully that the Riigikogu has two options. If there is no political will to actually give these 1523 children Estonian citizenship, then there is no such will. Then admit it's not, take that bill back. And then, if that will ever arises, either in this government or in another government, it can be handled and can honestly tell people that, look, we agreed, we passed the law, and you will now receive Estonian citizenship. Instead of grinning at these people that you can now go to the police department, make an appointment, don't forget, wait for the line, pay 13 euros and then you will be told: but why didn't you read the law exactly, of course your child doesn't get citizenship, of course you can't, you are a citizen of the Russian Federation, what are you kidding? So that such a thing doesn't happen. I didn't quote the letter from the Chancellor of Justice for nothing. The rules of nationality generally have a broad discretion (for the award of naturalisation), but as the Chancellor of Justice says, it is the task of the Riigikogu to carefully assess whether the treatment of certain groups is justified. Having held these discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I say that the Riigikogu has neither thoroughly nor at all assessed whether it is justified or not. The Ministry of the Interior responded to the Chancellor of Justice's complete nonsense, saying that the subsequent entry into force of the decision granting citizenship will help to mitigate the risk arising from the value conflict that a child who is an Estonian citizen will exercise the rights of an Estonian citizen when he or she becomes an adult, from the point of view of the world, which is contrary to the fundamental values of Estonian society. Let us remind you that if this child, at the age of 18, can at the end of this so-called seeming citizenship, become a real citizenship, regardless of what his worldview is, he may still be an Estonian citizen. So the reason why these children could not acquire Estonian citizenship and exercise civil rights as minors has not really been given. The Riigikogu commission has done its work very badly in this context and, unfortunately, the Ministry of the Interior itself was also embarrassed to bring such a draft here. It's a political agreement, all right. But in my opinion, such practice and the adoption of such laws are mockery and crap. You shouldn't do that. That is why I propose that we stop reading so that people can think about it. Sometimes good thoughts come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U37	Since Andrei Korobenik's name was mentioned in the negotiations, the right is a reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U38	Thank you. Since I was accused of lying here, I suggest you read the Commission's protocol. Indeed, a single representative of the Social Democrats opposed this bill. It's a perfectly true fact. That means I wasn't lying. However, the Social Democrats were in power for years and have not taken any steps to liberalise the principles of citizenship in a similar way. [[A voice from the hall.]] So you have to admit your own political agenda and not blame other people for lying. I haven't mentioned a word right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-14_U39	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu do not want to negotiate any more, so we will conclude the negotiations. There was one amendment to the draft, which is not subject to the vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. As the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to suspend the second reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, we will put this proposal to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the motion of the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 52 against and no abstentions. The proposal for interruption was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 58. So the second reading is finished. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of today's sitting. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 10.32 a.m.
