ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the 16th working week of the 3rd session of the Riigikogu. And first, there's a chance to hand over drafts or inquiries. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, please hand over the drafts to Mrs Heili Tõnisson.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching seven draft laws today. First, a draft law amending the Notarial Law and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. Secondly, the draft railway law and thirdly, the draft law amending the Energy Economy Organisation Act and the Natural Gas Act. In processing these two drafts in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels and, in this respect, the Act amending the Tax Administration Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme when dealing with these two drafts. Oh, I'm sorry! The fifth was the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act and these two are then Martin Helme to present. Sixth, the draft law amending the Pharmaceutical Act and the Health Insurance Act. And seventhly, the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act. In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted seven drafts and the Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, let's get to the presence check. There are 86 members of the Riigikogu, no 15. And now, ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the adoption of this week's agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 16th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 87 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U4	Today we have two items on the agenda... sorry, three. Three is the law of the court. We will go to the first one, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic in connection with the reorganisation into the Agricultural and Food Administration of the Agricultural and Veterinary Office. I would like Mr Aart, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to speak as a rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U5	Good afternoon, everyone! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, My task here is to carry out the second reading of bill 164. I would like to remind you that the purpose of the draft law is to merge the Food and Veterinary Office and the Agricultural Office. The consolidated body will be named Agricultural and Food Board or PTA. The new agency is involved in monitoring the entire food chain, which is linked to the human environment and health. Under one roof it is easier to organise the necessary activities, exchange information, improve the quality and availability of the public service. The merger process has been underway for over two years. A number of joint seminars have taken place, a PTA Steering Committee has been set up to deal with this process, a communication strategy has been completed, including an internal communication strategy, which is very important. The structure shall be designed in accordance with the tasks assigned to the Agency. There will be 14 departments and four regions in the new office. The draft law is time-critical in the sense that it is high time, on 1 July, to announce a competition for the position of Director-General, if you want the Agency to be fully operational on 1 January 2021. The Act would amend 31 laws, 19 government regulations, 153 regulations of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture, four regulations of the Ministry of the Environment and two regulations of the Ministry of the Interior. These changes are mainly related to simply changing the name. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft law on 16 March, the first reading was on 21 April and it was closed. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft law at its meeting on 19 May, which examined the amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration and took procedural decisions on the draft. The draft has been sent to the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for technical and linguistic purposes, and the comments of the language editor accepted by the representative of the initiator of the draft have been included in the text of the draft. The deadline for submitting amendments was 6 May, by which time no proposals were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. An amendment was tabled by the Ministry of Rural Affairs for consideration by the lead committee. The content of the proposal was to be supplemented by the 164 SE law on the restriction of the acquisition of immovable property, or the KAKS amendment, in such a way that the acquisition of immovable property would not be subject to KAOX if the acquirer was a national company, a state foundation or a state profit-making institution. The current version excludes legal persons established in Estonia, the Estonian state, the local government unit and the public law entity established in Estonia from the scope of KAKS' application in the case of acquisition of immovable property. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the subject at length and in depth and found that the proposed amendment had no connection with the draft law 164 and proposed that the Ministry withdraw the proposed proposal, which was also the case with the Ministry. The commission adopted a decision to send a draft law amending the Law of the Government of the Republic and other laws to the Riigikogu for a second reading, i.e. by 1 June, with the proposal to conclude the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 10 June and to put it to a final vote. That's all I have right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U6	Thank you. And now all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask up to two questions to the rapporteur. The length of the question is up to one minute. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U7	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. How will a leader be elected to the new office? Is this an open competition or is it based on a sausage distribution: who gets a bigger sausage, gets the chief's title?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U8	Thank you. Mr Ivar, my dear colleague. I dare say that there are very good, constructive and expert members in the Committee on Rural Affairs. And I'm going to be completely honest with you, and I'm going to tell you that on 1 July, a public competition will be announced if it's possible on that date.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U9	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Can you tell me how many employees will be left when the two institutions are merged? Will there also be savings in the number of employees due to increased efficiency and restructuring of things, or will the number of employees remain the same, as is currently the case in both institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U11	There's a total of 550 people at two institutions, I don't know the exact number. The aim is to maintain all positions as far as possible. There will certainly be redeployments, certainly some jobs will be redeployed, certainly someone will decide to leave, if someone's new organisation is not suitable, perhaps some will come, but the goal is to let no one go or concentrate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U12	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U13	Good manager! I listened to Mr Padar's question, and perhaps I was not too observant. Are they gonna be set up by the National Sage Board? [[They say something in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U14	I don't think that's a question for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U15	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U16	Thank you, Mrs. Aart! I heard there are very smart people in the Committee on Rural Affairs, and you were talking about the labour force. Tell me what the Committee on Rural Affairs thinks of the labour force in agriculture. I am bombarded every day with messages that some politicians tend to deny: that the harvest remains in the field and so on. Is there anything you can do to make sure the crop isn't left in the field?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U17	Thank you, Mr Jürgen Ligi! The same is the case for us: I too am being bombarded with all sorts of questions, and I talk to different manufacturers twice or three times a day. But this is a very broad and thorough subject, and I would be ready to talk to you on this subject separately, not in this Chamber. There are certainly solutions, certainly solutions must be sought. There is certainly a need to look for solutions, and there is certainly a need to take a few steps back, some steps forward. But there are certainly solutions. The Estonian always has solutions, they will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U18	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U19	Thank you, my good colleague. I ask where the headquarters of the new office will be: is it somewhere in the country or will it remain in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U20	The headquarters of the new agency will be in Saku according to the current plan. The address is Saku. But there's this little problem that maybe a little bit of time is going to be reorganized because there's going to be some repairs. I don't know if they're gonna make it by 1 January, but we're gonna have headquarters in Saku.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U21	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U22	Good manager! Good waitress! That's the question. Ivari Padar asked for the name of the boss of this sausage factory, but my question is specific: will the key character of the listerial scandal continue to be in his leading position? The Director-General, as we know, has already left in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U23	Thank you, Peter! That's a very good question. This issue can be resolved by competition when the competition of the Director-General of the Office is announced and when the new Director-General comes to deal with these matters. But listeria is not the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U24	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Now we have the opportunity to go to the negotiations. First, Ivar Padari to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U25	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman! After all, this combination of two agencies has been prepared for longer, during a few or three governments. And if the result is better bureaucracy, easier and more transparent administration, both from the point of view of officials and from the point of view of those in the field or in the barn, then it is very good. Now, the other part of the matter is why I came here: it's the same issue of sausage distribution. We are now creating an agency under which and under the control of which many sausages are made, including coarse sausages. A colleague whose name I do not want to mention raised the subject of listeria and everything else that happened last year. It is clear that there have been many accusations from a particular party in this Chamber. It has been asked whether the Food and Veterinary Office is political or whether it is not political until Mr Kruuse has been accused of making a political exchange for the head of this office in his own time. I'm telling you, there hasn't been a political exchange. There were circumstances at stake why all this happened. If you want to know, please come and ask me or Urmas Kruus. Since there have been a lot of complaints about the political leadership of the Food and Veterinary Office, this is what makes me cautious in the current context. Doesn't putting together an organization that big and important share sausages? This is now a new term in the Estonian political landscape. That's right. As far as listeria is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, there is a protocol to the Committee on Rural Affairs. In order to determine whether there is a political listeria or no political listeria, the Commission invited a representative of the Food and Veterinary Office, a representative of the veterinary laboratory and a representative of health protection. These were representatives of three different institutions, none of which were political. Many colleagues were able to take part in this meeting, and the conclusion in the minutes is one: there was a problem in this particular company, to which I wish very much success in the future. It was a difficult problem to solve, but there was a solution. And no politics. Now this company has started to solve its problem, we have heard that there have been no concerns. That's right. So that's my question about how to share a sausage, is there going to politicise a large and very powerful institution? It has been very well-founded. Let's notice that very much! Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U26	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiation. The negotiations are over. And since no amendments have been tabled, we cannot review them. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 164. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U27	Today's second item: First reading of the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of local government and the Law on the financial management of local government. Aivar Koka, Chair of the Monetary Commission, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U28	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee initiated a draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act and the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit at its meeting on 18 May. The Head of the Department of Financial Management of Local Authorities of the Ministry of Finance, Sulev Liivik, was also invited to the discussion. The Commission took consensual decisions: proposing to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 1 June, proposing to close the first reading, proposing to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 8 June and to appoint a speaker to represent the lead committee before you. As there were no RES discussions this spring, in order to support local authorities, it has been agreed in accordance with the draft that the adoption of changes to the development plan and the budgetary strategy, normally on 15 October, will be on 1 December this year. And since this adoption will only take place on 1 December at the latest, the second date for submitting the budget strategy information to the Ministry of Finance would be 15 December instead of 30 October. And thirdly, if the draft budget and the explanatory memorandum are usually scheduled to be submitted to the Council one month before the beginning of the new financial year, then now we are going to postpone this 15 days too, i.e. the deadline is 15 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Now you have a chance to ask the waitress questions. No questions asked. Now is the opportunity to open negotiations, but I will see that there is no wish for negotiation either. The commission has proposed to conclude the first reading of draft 194. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 8 June at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U30	Today's third item: First reading of the draft of the Estonian Central Party Group, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa Act amending the National Audit Office, the Political Party Act and other laws (Faculty Financing Control Body) 193. Mr Kert Kingo, member of the Riigikogu, please waitress the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U31	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Political Financing Monitoring Commission has been operating for about ten years. During this period, awareness of the importance of ensuring transparency of funding and the effectiveness of controls has increased considerably. The practice has also highlighted legal and organisational bottlenecks to effective supervision and has given rise to a considerable amount of sectoral case-law. The development of the draft law was due to the need to ensure more professional control over the funding of political parties' activities. To this end, the current Political Financing Supervision Commission will be replaced by a new control body, the National Audit Office. The principles of political party financing are not amended by this draft. The guidelines of the Venice Commission and the report on the funding of political parties, the practice of good administration of political parties in the Venice Commission and the recommendation to Member States on common anti-corruption rules for the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 8 April 2003 will continue to be followed. Given the nature of the party, effective control of political party funding is essential for the protection of democracy and public interests. The purpose of the draft is to make the control of the funding of political parties, electoral associations and individual candidates more professional and to this end the supervisory competence is conferred on the National Audit Office. Between 1994 and 2004, the electoral committee of the Republic was the examiner of the political parties' election reports. Since 2004, this was the special committee of the Riigikogu on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act and since 2011 the control body is the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. The recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on common anti-corruption rules for Member States in the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns provides for the establishment of independent national monitoring, which means that countries must ensure the independence of the funding of political parties and the monitoring of electoral campaigns. Independent monitoring must include monitoring of political parties' budgets, including the costs of the electoral campaign, as well as their presentation and publicity. According to the OSCE/ODHIR and the Venice Commission, effective measures must be taken in law-making and practice by countries to ensure the impartiality and political independence of the monitoring body. In 2012, in the report of the third round of evaluations, GRECO took the view that their recommendation to entrust an independent body with a mandate, mandate, financial resources and staff to effectively monitor funding, to investigate possible breaches of rules on the financing of political activities and, where appropriate, to impose sanctions had been satisfactorily implemented. However, the full compliance of the funding monitoring body set up in 2011 with the independence requirements is questionable, in particular because the composition of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission does not fully meet the independence criterion. The political influence of the members of the ERJK is not excluded, as it also includes the appointed members of the political parties represented in the Riigikogu, who may not be members of the Riigikogu or the Government of the Republic. Five political parties are represented in the XIV Riigikogu, so the majority of the members of the Political Financing Supervisory Commission are representatives of political parties. In essence, this means that political parties exercise control over their own activities. However, in addition to the independent functioning of the supervisory body, it must also appear independent. In addition to the requirement of independence, the members of the supervisory body must have good professional training, which is essential for ensuring proper control. There are no requirements for the members of the ERJC to ensure the availability of sectoral expertise and necessary professionalism within the Commission. The membership of the ERJK is also an ancillary activity for the members of the ERJK. The National Audit Office is an independent institution. According to § 132 of the Constitution, the National Audit Office is a state body carrying out an independent economic review of its activities. § 133 of the Constitution defines the competence of the National Audit Office, which is to control the economic activities of state institutions, state companies and other public organisations; the use and preservation of state assets; the use and disposal of state assets that are given to local governments, the economic activities of companies in which the state has more than half of the voting rights assigned to units or shares or whose loans or contractual obligations are guaranteed by the state. The Supreme Court has taken the following position in its 2009 decision. § 133 of the Constitution gives the National Audit Office a guarantee that the legislator will not interfere with the competence of the National Audit Office as an independent control body. The Riigikogu cannot deprive the National Audit Office of the competence laid down in § 133 of the Constitution. § 133 of the Constitution also ensures that the legislator must not assign tasks to the National Audit Office which are not related to the main activities of the National Audit Office and which may make it difficult to carry out the basic tasks. The purpose of § 133 of the Constitution is also to delimit the competence of the National Audit Office as a state body, which is based on the purpose of the Constitution to restrict public power and protect the public against acts of public authority. The assignment of additional tasks to the National Audit Office in relation to constitutional competence must be justified for some compelling reason. In the opinion of the Supreme Court, the need to ensure transparency and legitimacy of the use of public authority was justified by the need to extend the competence of the National Audit Office regarding the possession, use and disposal of municipal assets of local government units. The fact that they are seeking the power of the people to exercise state authority in elections makes it particularly important for political parties to control their funding from the point of view of the functioning of the democratic system. In addition, the Supreme Court has taken the view in the resolution that the municipal property control of local government units is the responsibility of the National Audit Office as an independent body carrying out economic control. In this way, the assessment of the accuracy and timeliness of the reports, the legitimacy of the sources of funding, the information to the public, and the principle of the control of the funding of political parties, can be considered compatible with the main activities of the National Audit Office. The purpose of this draft law is to amend the law of the National Audit Office as follows: Paragraph 3 (2) is added, the wording of which would then be that, apart from paragraph 1, the purpose of the activities of the National Audit Office is to ensure transparency in the financing of political activities arising from the principle of democracy through the verification of compliance with the requirements for the financing of political parties, electoral associations and individual candidates. Chapter 2 of the Act is supplemented by § 61, which then includes provisions on the control of the financing of the party, the electoral union and the activities of an individual candidate. The Act is supplemented by Chapter 61 "Bas and procedures for verifying the financing of the activities of the staff, the electoral association and the individual candidate'. This chapter consists of paragraphs 522, 523, 524 and 525. All these sections include regulations on how the National Audit Office can carry out supervision of funding, which measures it has to use, what are the obligations. It also includes time limits for the submission of precepts, time limits for the submission of documents, as well as the period for the right to precepts, which is now up to three years from the date of the act or the date of the default. In addition, these paragraphs include the amount of the penalty payment. It has remained the same as it was in the party law, it is EUR 15000. But there is also the possibility of contesting the injunction in the administrative court. The party law is amended to replace the words 'Private Financing Monitoring Committee' and the word 'Commission' with 'State Audit'. Then there are a few other cosmetic changes, including the latest regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council, which have been updated, modernised. Paragraphs 1210-1213 are deleted. They currently regulate the activities and rights of this committee in the party law. There are also minor adjustments in the Tax Administration Act and the Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U32	Thank you, good waitress. There are a number of questions for you. Every member of the Riigikogu has two possibilities for asking and the length of the question is like one minute. First, please, Mart Võrguship!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your report, you dealt thoroughly with § 133 of the Constitution, where the tasks of the National Audit Office are listed as four points and this list is exhaustive. And then you brought in an analogous application to point 3, which concerns the local government, a local authority. I have to admit, I didn't understand that. Would you please explain under which point the new task assigned to these four National Audit Offices will be carried out? And how do you still see the analogy you were talking about a moment ago? Why don't you explain it again? My understanding is that over the past six months, there has been quite a lot of bad legislation coming from this hall, which the President has sent back because it has not responded to the Constitution. I have the feeling that this may happen again if the opposition does not listen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U34	Thank you for your question. I cannot judge constitutionality because I am not a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I am a rapporteur for the draft law. However, I mentioned nicely how these additional tasks can be added to the National Audit Office. The fact that they have not now been formulated in this way does not mean that they have not been formulated in the future. But I cannot make assessments from a constitutional point of view, because I am not a Member of the Commission and the Commission is making these assessments. [[They say something in the hall.]] I told you, yes, they're not here right now, and that's what they're gonna discuss. In the future, perhaps these points will be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U35	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U36	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm a little sorry that the coalition has put you in a tank and has chosen to report this bill. And you say that you don't even have to justify anything to us that you don't know that view from a constitutional point of view. The National Audit Office has clearly stated that this is an extra-constitutional task that is now being assigned to it. I do not know if you have read it or not, but the National Audit Office has sent us a letter to the Constitutional Committee on this matter at least. In it it clearly states that the National Audit Office does not have the function of controlling the property of legal persons governed by private law. And political parties are private legal entities. With all the political nonsense you're trying to implement right now, I'd ask you very well about just one paragraph. You referred to three years: Paragraph 523 (2) states that a precept may be made "for up to three years'. Is this the coalition's conscious desire to exempt the Centre Party from previous claims and possible so-called million losses currently pending in the Committee on Financing of Parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U37	Thank you for your question. Surely no one wants to relieve anyone of his or her responsibilities and responsibilities. There is also an opportunity to table amendments to this deadline. Our first vision is three years, but you can propose amendments for a longer period. The time is just coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U38	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The aim of this draft is still very dim and very dubious when we talk about its real purpose. But try to explain how the work of a single monitoring and control body will be assessed. I am saying that one of the criteria for assessing the work is certainly whether or not the injunctions and requirements of the control body remain in court. If poor material goes to court, the administrative court will cancel it. What are the complaints about the case-law of the party funding control body? However, if the case-law is not a criterion for assessing quality, please explain what these quality assessment criteria are.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U40	Thank you for the emotionally asked question. I am not the person who can evaluate the Commission's activities, because I have not participated in these proceedings. However, it is always possible to make everything more efficient. Currently, this committee meets once a month, but at the National Audit Office, a person is employed every day. This means that more cases can be handled, more cases can be dealt with. Once a month, we go side by side with the main activities and only take decisions that we look at it and that is what the officials actually look at. That means you can still do better. But no one has questioned these cases in court.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U41	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U42	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! I have read the views of high officials, both in the media and in the various protocols, as well as the opinions of the various institutions. I must say that I have not found any piece of writing to be supported by this amendment. My question to you is: what, after all, motivated the initiation of this draft? Why does it need to be processed? In my own words, I ask you to explain this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U43	As I said in the introduction, this committee does not meet all the criteria of independence. There are eight members in the committee with the speaker before you, five of which are representatives of political parties. The Commission shall supervise the financing of political parties. And now there is a situation where self-monitoring is carried out. There are five members on the Commission who are interested in making things as soft as possible. That means there's no talking about independence here. These members are party members. And that is the point of this legislative amendment in order to transfer this activity to a completely independent institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U44	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U45	Thank you. Well, this last comment, of course, doesn't stand for any criticism. The various parties there have a common interest in ensuring that no one uses unfair competition, or doping. But when it comes to using doping, it was also said in the Commission that the Central Party, which is leading the government, has a number of disputes with the same Committee on Financing of Political Parties. One of them has reached the Supreme Court and the deadline for the execution of the other was interestingly slightly more than three years ago. Maybe it's just a coincidence. But both of these disputes are litigation, one of which is the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. You assured the Commission that if this committee were to be dissolved, the disputes would continue. Please explain the theory of how these disputes can continue and who is then the other party to the dispute instead of the ERJK.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U46	Thank you for your question. In practice, it is usually the case that if one side of the dispute is reorganised or its tasks are transferred to another organisation, the organisation will continue to argue. He has the legal right to do so. He shall continue as the party who has brought these actions or initiated the administrative procedure. This sequence won't break. If an institution disappears or a Commission disappears, that does not mean that the litigation can be brought to an end because of it. The litigation continues. Just now there is the other side of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U47	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U48	Thank you. Good waitress, I'm going to continue with the question of Mart Võrguship. Indeed, the Constitution exhaustively lists the tasks of the National Audit Office and there is no such task. You replied that this is not your competence because you are not a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But all members of the Riigikogu have taken the oath of office in this Chamber, saying 'I promise to remain faithful to the constitutional order'. In fact, we should all know the Constitution. And now I ask you, as a member of the Riigikogu, who has taken this oath: which point of those listed in § 133 of the Constitution will be the task you wish to give to the National Audit Office now? And how does that not conflict with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U49	First of all, I would point out that it was totally inappropriate to note the words that I would remain faithful. I have not given any reason to doubt my loyalty, in that sense it was a bit too hasty. As far as the constitution is concerned, I pointed out nicely how an analogy can be used here with local government units. I can read you the analysis that's been done again. The Supreme Court has taken the view that this task.. we are talking about local government units, the control of the use of municipal assets is characteristic of the National Audit Office as an independent body carrying out economic control. It is therefore possible to transfer the control of political party funding on exactly the same basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U50	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As can be seen from the Commission's protocol, your debate there was thorough and substantive and even very heated. This debate also recalled the year 2009. At that time, Auditor General Mihkel Oviir wrote a letter to Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I understand that there was also the intention of putting the party funding control on the National Audit Office. But he said that this cannot be done because the National Audit Office is essentially a classical audit organisation and cannot be granted powers of executive power. Would you mind commenting on that comment in the light of today's wish? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U52	Thank you. I can't, I can't comment on it because I haven't read these protocols. I do not take the courage to comment on the matter if I have not been familiar with it and have not been a part of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U53	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U54	Thank you. I noticed you said something about the local government or the COVID, but the citation of the Supreme Court's judgment you read did not agree with this bill. The tasks assigned to the National Audit Office are stated in the Constitution and there is also a separate section that prohibits incoherent tasks. It follows from your discussion that you consider political parties to be a public sector. Is...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U55	I would point out that in the Commission, I also repeatedly said that compliance with the principle of independence is not guaranteed in this committee. I drew attention to the fact that there are members of five political parties who are essentially supervising themselves. That's what I stressed over and over again. But as far as political parties are concerned, we are not talking about them as ordinary non-profit organisations. The members of the political parties have been empowered by the people to exercise state authority. Here's the difference. Nor was it previously... [[There's talk in between in the hall.]] May I continue? Neither was control of municipal assets of local governments in the past among the tasks of the National Audit Office, but it was found to be in accordance with the Constitution, if such control were to be given such authority. But, of course, you will be able to table amendments to the bill and, as always, their vote will take place in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Questions and proposals are always welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U56	No, I didn't think they were public.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U57	But the National Audit Office has been given the task of controlling the public sector. How do you explain that? And how do you explain that you repeatedly confirmed in the Commission that there are really no valid reasons to be critical of this committee? You said that repeatedly in front of me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U58	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, I only have one minute, and I therefore recommend that everyone read the Rait Maruste article in which he makes a very thorough argument as to why this draft is contrary to the Constitution. But even if this legal argument aside, do you think it is basically right that the private association of the members of the Riigikogu elected by the people, which are definitely political parties, and that includes political parties in the Riigikogu, will be supervised and supervised by officials instead? Isn't that like walking on your hands?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U60	Thank you for your question. I don't know what you meant by walking on your hands, but I'll explain it again. The members of the political parties are elected by the people and exercise state authority. There's a difference. Secondly, officials or not, it is clear that the current Commission, which is largely made up of representatives of political parties, is in principle supervising itself. It is certainly not independent, and it certainly does not prevent the corruption that we are seeking here nationwide. After all, we are constantly working to prevent corruption, to combat it. For this purpose, the best, most neutral and independent institution is the National Audit Office, whose daily activities consist in carrying out audits, assessing economic results. These are specialists. There are, as far as I know, no licensed specialists in this area in the current Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U61	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There were a lot of questions and doubts about this bill in the first second. One part of these doubts relates to the fact that the Prime Minister's party has certain possible claims and they are not at all small in financial terms. The Prime Minister also initially tried to distance himself from this bill. He said it was a Riigikogu matter. Later, he has been gentle and has realised that it is not possible to move away from this draft, which shows that it is of great interest to put this matter under the spotlight. You said several times that this committee was not independent by referring to the members of the political parties who are there. According to you, it could also be extended to other councils and committees where the members of the political parties are represented, for example, the ERR Council. But why don't you want to understand that you don't have a problem to solve? All the quality indicators show that the Commission has done a good job, although there are also representatives of political parties. Why do you deny it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U63	You and I disagree here. You find that there is no problem to solve, we find that there is. And that is precisely the issue of independence that I have repeatedly emphasised here. It is amazing that when we had a vote on the three new members of the ERR Council during the last week of May in this Chamber, it was claimed that the ERR Council would be politicised, even though it was individuals who did not have any political affiliation. However, one member was given an EKRE mind. Now that we are talking about action, which means monitoring political parties, you think that it must be politicised, that it is right. Decide, then, what is good, whether politicisation or non-politicisation, objectivity or not, independence or not. You'll say one thing if you need to, once you talk one thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U64	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm listening, and I really don't know if you're lying to us or if you don't know what you're talking about. And I can't rule either out, because once we caught you with a lie. So please, just try to be honest and tell me if you really don't understand that if there's a thing in the Constitution, you have to change the Constitution in order to change it. It is only after that that you can begin to comply with the laws below. Can't do the opposite. It is now clear that this law is contrary to the Constitution and will never be approved by either Kadriorg or the Supreme Court. Even the same Supreme Court decision that you read out there too is very clear that it will not work if we simply change the laws below on our hands. Please answer me honestly! Do you understand the contradiction? And do you find that this haste and haste is only due to the fact that the Centre Party wants to quickly get out of the way right now, because otherwise you have to go through two formations...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U66	Ladies and gentlemen, We're asking you to stick to the time limit!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U67	I'm almost done. Otherwise, these changes will have to be made through two formations if we want to change the Constitution, and you do not have time for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U68	First of all, unlike you, I'm trying to be polite and not insult you. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to what I have already said many times. We are in the Riigikogu Hall, I am presenting the bill, this is the first reading. Amendments to the draft can be tabled and will come to the Chamber again. We're all voting on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U69	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I say that it is absolutely incredible that the government association has submitted a corrupt bill to the Riigikogu, which will reverse the possible violations of the law by some political parties. Really unbelievable! But my question to you is that you have not been able to explain, either in the Commission or in this Chamber, what will happen to the procedures that have been initiated by the Committee on Financing Monitoring and which are in progress. So how do they continue? I read that they are not going to continue, that there are no implementing provisions. For example, procedures that have been initiated, but which have not yet been passed anywhere, nothing says that they will be transferred to the National Audit Office. Who says or where does it say it? Tell me, please! And the other thing is, you said that if any of the things are in court right now, it goes on. All right, well, the court doesn't drop the case, but if the court comes up with some sort of settlement and this case is being appealed, then who will represent the committee on the supervision of funding, which is no longer there? It is not written anywhere that in this case the National Audit Office will do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U71	First of all, I stress that when I answered the questions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and some of the answers did not suit you, that does not mean that I have not responded. I said, we just disagree. Secondly, you are interested in what happens to these proceedings. In order to close some of the proceedings that have been initiated, there is a need for a basis. I bring criminal cases, for example. In order to end the criminal case, there must be an oportunity or there is a reason for the absence of a criminal offence. But in this case, you can see that there is no ground for graduation. Without the basis, no proceedings can be closed, it requires a legal basis and they are not included in the draft. These are the provisions you are talking about. Such a thing will never be put into the law that it will now be dealt with like this and so, if that is it and that is it. The grounds for the termination of the letter shall be laid, if there are no grounds, the procedure cannot be terminated. Easy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U72	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U73	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! First of all, I understand that you are still a representative of the initiators of the draft here on the board, not a waitress from the Commission. I think you have noticed, however, that, in this Chamber, in the public sphere and by various institutions, this draft has been repeatedly highlighted by the indiscretion of the Constitution. It's obvious in itself, isn't it? The second thing: you have already stressed here on several occasions that five political parties are represented in the Committee on the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties and that is why it is not independent. However, you have initiated this draft with three parties and have not at all addressed the two other parties represented in the Riigikogu on the question of initiation. And here's the question. The National Conservation Party is one of the initiators of this bill. What is the substantive idea of initiating this draft? Please explain to me!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U74	First of all, I would like to explain that if a political group or association of political groups initiates a draft, the law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provides that they are not obliged to coordinate it with all other political parties. All political parties and political groups, or associations of political groups, have this right. What is the content of this draft? From the beginning, I will tell you: the Commission is currently not independent and it has also been assessed by the various committees. Now if we can see who the five members of eight are. The chairman of the committee is clearly party member; he is a social democrat. The vice-president is close to the members of the Social Democratic Party: his father is a member of the Social Democratic Party and his brother was also nominated in the Social Democratic Party in the last elections. You discussed the composition of the ERR board and found Peeter Espak to be pro-Ekre. With regard to the Vice-Chairman of the Commission, we can state very clearly that he agrees with the Social Democrats. It's already lost balance. It's gone to heels. You can't deny that there are such things. And there are only two independent members who are not party members: the election service of the Republic and the representative of the National Audit Office. The Chancellor of Justice is represented by Kaarel Tarand.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U75	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U76	Well, I think you're losing it. Or rather, it's been in the swamp from the beginning. I understand that you do not trust Urmas Simon and Kalle Sepper or Helen Vääne, who are all renowned lawyers, who are also presented by your own Urmas Simon and the Centre Party. And I do know families where there is one member of the Reform Party, for example, and another socialist or some other combination. Don't hurt Kaarel Tarand now! But when I came to this bill, I already said on my first question that I am sorry that you have been put here to defend this bill and the role of a tank player. This draft is manifestly contrary to the Constitution and does not have any implementing provisions. And the story is that the ERJK cases don't end, come on, the subject disappears! So who's the one who goes to court? But I will now come to a specific question. How do you justify the right to impose a penalty on the National Audit Office? The task of the National Audit Office is not to determine coercive money. And once again, please explain how the National Audit Office will supervise private legal persons that it is not currently doing. It's against the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U77	This is the purpose of the draft law, which points of the National Audit Office Act we supplement, which we amend, which sections we add, which content. Exactly what gives the National Audit Office the right to make precepts, which gives the National Audit Office the right to perform operations, such as requesting documents, to take explanations, which gives the right to impose a penalty payment of up to 15000 euros. In the same way, both parties have the right to appeal to the administrative court. All these requirements are guaranteed. If you read the bill properly as a lawyer, you should understand the content of the bill and know that all these rights will come when the bill passes the necessary readings. But there's a bill going on right now, I'll remind you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U78	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You're the waitress for the bill, and I expect one of the authors, if this circle is wider than the one who worked it out. Would you please explain how this bill was born? Is this your own creation, or is this some kind of group job? The chairman of your party has said some time ago that the government had sausage distributions and they got the thickest sausages. Some EKRE sausages are already coming out: turning Rail Baltic into a ditch, closing the introduction of foreign labour and keeping it here. Could the bill you're reporting be Jüri Ratas and the sausage of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U80	I would point out that I am the waitress for the bill. With other questions, please address the leaders of the political groups or other representatives. I'm the waitress, and I'm gonna tell you about this bill. And the one who said what, who wrote what the word wrote, I don't think it's relevant right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U81	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U82	Thank you. Dear waitress, your answers give the impression that suspicious people have been assigned to the political party funding control body. If you go further from here, the Auditor General and the Chief Auditors of the National Audit Office may not belong to a party; other officials may. But if there is now a situation where an official belongs to a party that is not suitable for you or is not suitable for a coalition, can he not control the materials you want to send to the National Audit Office for verification? Or if the official's father or mother belongs to a party? Please respond, I find this witch hunt of yours a little strange.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U83	I'm sorry, I really didn't get that question, it just kind of got really messed up, it got really long. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] So, what's the question? Please try to formulate a clear question. [[They say something in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U84	If this goes to Heljo Pikhof as a second question, I would ask the rapporteur to try to answer the question as it was put.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U85	As far as I can tell, you said you had a certain impression. I can't be responsible for your impression. I have never said of any Member of the Commission that I do not trust him. I am always talking, since five of the eight members of the Commission are representatives of political parties, such a committee cannot supervise itself. Representatives of political parties are currently supervising themselves. I've been saying that all along.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U86	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U87	Thank you. At the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which took place on Thursday, 21 May, you admitted that you were not the author of this draft. In reply to Mr West Forest's question, you said that you were not in this task force and you could not tell who was there. Well, here we have been through many times in the round of questions and answers that the government's leading party, the Central Party, has a number of disputes up and therefore has its own chicken plucked by the committee that you now want to disband. Right now, I'm looking around the hall, and there's hardly any Centre Party here, there's only one of the ambassadors of the Fatherland. If you are not the author of this draft and you do not know who the author of this draft is, and yet those who are supposed to be the authors of this draft do not take a stand or come to this Chamber, do you not feel that you have somehow become a tanker on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U88	Thank you! No, I don't feel like a tank player, even though Hanno Pevkur repeatedly tried to use the same name here. No, absolutely not. Secondly, I say that this draft is drawn up by three groups, it is a joint work by three different groups. And I don't think it really matters who wrote the one word who scored and who kicked the punch. This is the draft proposed by the three groups, and I am the introduction to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U89	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U90	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! My question is based on one of your answers, where you said that you are not as competent to evaluate the draft in the context of the Constitution, because you are not a member of this committee. I, on the other hand, believe that every member of the Riigikogu should be bound by the Constitution in their work. We also know that all members of the Riigikogu have access to the letters sent to the Commission. And on 29 May, the National Audit Office sent a letter to the Commission. I quote: 'ERJK has carried out its task within the limits of the powers conferred on it, the Commission's budget, staff and the support from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu have ensured that the Commission's activities have been effective. In order to allow the Commission, the National Audit Office or any third party to investigate more effectively the breaches of the requirements for the financing of political parties, it is necessary to correct the gaps in the mandate and powers of either the Commission or the National Audit Office. The current wording of Bill 193 does not correct these gaps. '
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U91	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U92	Please give your comment to this paragraph of the letter!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U93	As you know, every draft has a lead committee, and the lead committee is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. You indicated I said I wasn't qualified to talk. The evaluation is carried out by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I will present the draft, the plans, which points will change, which sections will change, and that is enough. The commission, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will analyse and take a position on the constitutionality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U94	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U95	Thank you. I'll keep asking from here. In the working group of the coalition where you have worked out this draft, you have reached the point of amending the law of the National Audit Office, you have reached the point of amending the law on political parties, you have reached the point of amending the law on the tax administration, and you have also reached the point of amending the law on the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu. You must also have known that there are points to this in the Constitution. If you change what the purpose of the activities of the National Audit Office is in the Act of the National Audit Office, the Constitution will be revealed there. In the coalition working group, did you have a debate that this amendment would also require a change in the constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U96	If we were going to change the constitution, it would be in the bill. If a specific amendment to the Constitution were necessary, it would be specifically stated. That's all I can comment on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U97	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U98	Thank you. Mrs. Kingo, I can inform you that self-control is an extremely common way of controlling Estonian society. Perhaps the best-known organizations are journalists and lawyers who keep an eye on each other. You have praised and the Prime Minister has also praised that the National Audit Office is a very reliable institution, which is why it should be given this task. That is why I will read to you the views of the National Audit Office itself, which are, right, reliable. He says three things. First of all: The National Audit Office does not have the task of controlling the property of private parties, i.e. parties. He says that it is not inherent to him to apply an administrative sentence to meet his recommendations, but you are offering it to him now. And thirdly, according to this draft, he is exposed to external pressure and exits from the normal framework of his auditee/auditee relationship and this undermines his credibility. Is this position of the National Audit Office reliable to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U99	This is the Supreme Court... The position of the National Audit Office. [[They say something in the hall.]] That's their position.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U100	Thank you. Dear waitress, presenter of the bill! The explanatory memorandum to this draft refers to the Venice Commission and the International Anti-Corruption Organisation GRECO when discussing the purpose of the draft. I am asking, therefore, whether you have any information as an introduction to the bill about the international practice in this area, even here in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U101	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U102	I don't know how to comment on that right now. I have not read all the documents referred to here from cover to cover. Only those important points that are specific to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U103	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U104	Thank you. Good waitress! When the coalition developed this bill, the Prime Minister said several times that he felt that the level of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission should be raised. He has mentioned several times why he sees the 'breaking up' of this committee as necessary to raise the level. When we look at how the Political Financing Monitoring Commission has gone, all the precepts that have been challenged by the courts, the Commission has won 100%. Just in case, I also note that a large majority of these appeals have been held by the Centre Party and the Prime Minister's parties have been won in court. If the Prime Minister now claims that he wants to raise the Commission's level with 100% success, perhaps you can explain what the aim of the Prime Minister and the coalition is to raise that level.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U105	Thank you for your question. The exact same question was already put in a slightly different way. But I can reiterate the fact that there are undoubtedly more professional people in the National Audit Office. I don't know, maybe you doubt it. Secondly, as far as I know, the representatives of these parties may not all have competence or competence to carry out such procedures. And in my opinion, or, as far as I know, they are not people who specifically carry out these procedures themselves, they have officials to do so, and they have contracts with lawyers. The next important aspect is that they gather once a month along with their core activities. The National Audit Office would carry out this work every working day, officials, depending on how many of them should be able to deal with it. They will have the opportunity to deal with it more substantially and in greater depth. And that means that the work can be made better and more efficient.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U106	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U107	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I understand from your answer to Jürgen Ligi's question that you consider the views of the National Audit Office reliable. And I'm sure it's good to hear that. You referred in your replies to a number of analyses which show or confirm that the Commission for the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties is not independent. Please list these analyses. That's the first question. The second question: please say that the opinion of independent experts was voted down on several occasions in the Committee on the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties, which either did not bring some matter to the table or did not follow the precept.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U108	I have not been active in and participated in the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. Therefore, I cannot comment or say how many times have been voted down. This could be said by those who have participated in the Commission. You've been pointing the question at the wrong object. Secondly, the legislative proposals, the changes we have, are available to everyone. I wasn't gonna double-count them here, I assume you can find them yourself. You can read. The links to these analyses are here. What they contain can be read by anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U109	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have answered a number of questions that this does not concern the bill, but at the same time you accused Kaarel Tarand, for example, of being biased. Your home party is run by a man who calls himself a senator, and the whole family works there. And other people named Helme write articles supporting the party. But that does not mean that other parties operate in the same cultural space. I am absolutely certain that this bill is contrary to the Constitution, because the law of the National Audit Office has been written in accordance with the Constitution. But you have joined the provisions concerning the National Audit Office's access to reports, injunctions, coercion and contestation of injunctions. These are things that the National Audit Office has never dealt with and the chapter to which these tasks would fit, in fact, is not yet in the law of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U111	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U112	Do you agree that this bill is in conflict with the Constitution and you will harm Kaarel Tarand, for example, by accusing him of things he is not guilty of?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U113	First, I'd like to clarify, correct your words. I didn't blame Kaarel Tarand for leaning. I have noted his family affiliation: his father is a Social Democratic Party member and his brother has applied on that list. I made this a comparison, referring to the election of the members of the ERR Council during the last week of May, when it was called out in this Chamber that Peeter Espak, who has no political affiliation, was pro-KERE. I gave you an example of that. Secondly, you say that there are no such paragraphs in the Law of the National Audit Office and there is no such chapter. I read to you that the law is being amended according to the draft so that there is a separate chapter. There will be chapter 61 and there will be sections that give the right to carry out the activities that have been carried out so far by the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. That's the precepts, the penitentiaries, all of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U114	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You have refused to answer a number of questions by referring to the fact that you are merely introducing the draft. I would like to draw attention to § 98 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, according to which you are the representative of the initiator of the draft. As a result, you must also explain why these changes are needed and in what way they have become there. Transparent legislation, the way in which some draft legislation has been discussed in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, is a very important part of the principle of democratic rule of law. If you're just saying that I don't know anything, I just got this paper planted, it doesn't look good at all. But the question. The colleagues of the Reform Party have accused you of being tanked, that it is a paper written by the Centre Party, for their own good, and now one of the EKRE ambassadors was then pushed into the tank. The ambassadors of the Fatherland have indeed distanced themselves from this bill as initiators and said that they did not fully understand it and that it was not very discussed, but it was necessary and well, let's see. Does the Reform Party harm you and, in fact, does the EKRE think, as you said in your presentation, that the supervision of the funding of the parties could be as lenient as possible and, consequently, you are behind the change that...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U115	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U116	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U117	... what are you reporting now? Are you not a tank player, but are you actually supporting the destruction of the party funding monitoring system?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U118	Once again, in clear Estonian, so that everyone can understand: the purpose of this draft is not to break the system, but to make the supervision of the funding of political parties more efficient and efficient. This requires an independent authority to carry it out, where there is professionalism, experience and skill, plus the fact that they can deal on a daily basis with these possible procedures or its monitoring, precisely in very essence, very thoroughly and on a larger scale. In this case, the Commission will meet once a month, a decision will be taken and then action will be taken quietly. If it goes under the National Audit Office, it is a day-to-day job, that is efficiency and efficiency. And if you ask a question, ask a question, do not talk for two minutes about any history.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U119	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If you had followed the logic of how this committee was formed, you would know that it was the result of the involvement and decision of all political parties. And right now, when this draft was launched, it would have been quite reasonable for all political parties in Parliament to be involved. You have constantly tried to give the impression that party representatives are equal to all party members, which they are not doing. As a result, you have actually missed a number of questions in these answers. And since you're always acting like you're just a waitress, please prove to us that this isn't a robot. On the Internet, we occasionally notice that we are being asked to make a tick in the box where they ask me if I am not a robot. But please, Honourable Rapporteur, what kind of problem are you actually solving from this point of view, that there are certain criteria for assessing quality. These criteria are all met at the moment. What kind of problem are you solving, and why was this initiative really necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U121	Once again, I stress that we will solve this problem so that this Commission is independent of its composition. It is not and cannot be now, because it is basically self-supervised. And you can always make things better. Today it has always been said that this Commission has worked beautifully, very well has worked. Yes, but it is always possible to make things more efficient and better. So this is a very good initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U122	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U123	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Dear waitress, Once again, I'm going to tell you that if you want to change the constitution that you're actually doing right now, you're going to have to start with it. Change the Constitution, place one more task on the National Audit Office in the Constitution, and then go on to amend the other laws that you now want to amend. But that means you have to do it in two configurations. It won't go fast, it'll take at least three years or three and a half years. And you don't have that time. In fact, your idea now is to make this legislative change quickly. And one thing about this bill is that it shortens the limitation period to three years. If the limitation period is three years, the claims against the Centre Party now fall away. Anyone who represents one party in court, if the limitation period is three years, will also be valid retroactively. This will ease responsibility and it will automatically mean that the Centre Party will escape...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U124	Valdo Randpere, time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U126	of its million-dollar claim. And...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U127	As I said before, as regards the limitation period, it is possible to table its amendments, which will be discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. And it's your free choice how long you want to make that expiry. It's just the idea of the initiators of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U128	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U129	Honourable Chairman! Good waitress! We learned from your answers that this bill is needed to solve the problem of Kaarel Tarand's father and brother. I have an interesting question: if this bill becomes a law and we assume that in the future it will be clear that the mother of a good employee of the National Audit Office, for example, is a sot, what then? But here's my question. If you are sincere about this draft and you really are concerned that this committee is not impartial, because it includes representatives of political parties, why do you not make a change that may only include independent experts? Why are you going clearly to violate the existing constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U130	Thank you for your question. In fact, it's a shame you only remembered one sentence and it was in your key, just as you wanted to hear it. In fact, I have much more justified this bill. Our objective, I still stress, is to have an absolutely independent entity under the National Audit Office, let's say, where there is professionalism. And with it comes responsibility as an official. As you know, the employees of the National Audit Office are officials. This entails responsibility for data processing, including all other responsibilities associated with official work. And I think that's the best solution. The most, say, independent result comes from the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U131	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U132	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! In answering my previous question, you said that the main substantive reason for creating this draft was that the Committee on the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties was not independent. You have stressed this repeatedly. My second question is on an issue that our good colleague, Mr Sutt, has already opened up by the end. You couldn't answer that. What are the specific facts on the basis of which you assess that the Political Financing Monitoring Commission has acted in a non-independent manner or that the peer review of political parties does not work? And now the second question: you see, you say that this draft has been initiated by the political groups of three parties. But you certainly agree that political party leaders give their consent to the initiatives of the political groups. Has Jüri Ratas given his consent to this bill as leader of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U133	First of all, I will answer what was the first part of your question. I have not argued that the Commission is not independent. I said that he did not meet all the criteria of independence, and precisely because there has been a situation in which political parties supervise themselves. And I have always said in plural: 'party', I am not talking specifically about one or two or three political parties, I mean everyone. In principle, all representatives of political parties supervise themselves. I can't answer your question about George Ratas. Please, you have the opportunity to turn to him and ask him these questions if you have any questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U134	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Today, it has been said several times in this Chamber that this bill is in conflict with the Constitution. You're a legitimate person, I'm asking a very simple question. I would ask for your opinion: is this draft contrary to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U136	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U137	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U138	Thank you. A good representative of the initiators! As a representative of the initiators, how do you comment on the fact that you and the Centre Party have reached a consensus on who will be the next Auditor General? Are you still denying it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U139	I don't know how to answer that. I don't know that kind of information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U140	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U141	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You have repeatedly stressed today the criterion of independence that it should, as it were, be improved. However, dependence or subjectivity should also be reflected in the quality of the work carried out by the Commission, yet the Commission has not lost a single case, and this is evidence of quality work. How would you explain the subjectivity of the current Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U142	I have not said that the Commission is subjective. I have always stressed that when self-monitoring is carried out, it means that you cannot be independent. It is not supervision if it is exercised over itself. That's the main argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U143	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U144	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, You have repeatedly stressed in your answers that we now have a situation in which, among other things, five representatives of political parties supervise the funding of political parties and that this does not guarantee independence because they control themselves. There were even more of them in the previous composition, and all three political parties that initiated today's draft were included. There were then six representatives of political parties at the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. Perhaps the situation was even worse based on the principles you mentioned. How do you feel about your colleagues in the previous composition making a mistake? Should they have done this four or five years ago? Because this whole time, it's actually been unobjective, and the situation was even worse in the previous composition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U145	Thank you for your question. Any political group or political groups, let us say, the Community can decide and initiate legislative proposals as it sees fit. I guess that feeling was the right thing to do right now, right now, to initiate this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U146	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U147	Thank you, good Chairman. Good performer! When Mr Westmets asked about the pending proceedings, you mentioned some examples of criminal proceedings that they had no bearing on the fact that they were the subject of an administrative procedure. In general, there is such a thing as a general succession in administrative law. If these functions of the committee are transferred to the National Audit Office and this law is passed, will the National Audit Office become the legal successor of this committee? Will it take the place of this committee as a party to proceedings in pending cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U148	Thank you for your question. I don't remember who I just answered the same question. Yes, then the National Audit Office will take the place of the Political Financing Supervisory Commission, should such a moment arise in court. He replaces the committee because the succession has been transferred to the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U149	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The Estonian proverb says to poke the working thing. I can see from your body language I'm not an expert in body language, but everyone understands that you're not feeling well in this role right now. You have to protect something you don't really want to protect. Please tell me what has really been these problems or the reasons why this committee must be'reorganized'. What's that? You have repeatedly pointed out that he is not independent. Jürgen Ligi rightly pointed out that self-control is what will actually play an ever greater role. There is no better guardian of party funding than the people of a competing party. And it's worked perfectly, impeccablely here. Why are you pricking a working thing? Give three reasons, specifically, for which the Commission for the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties has not managed. Then maybe I realize there's a reason to do this. Please give me three reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U151	First of all, you really aren't an expert in body language. I have said that I have not heard any reproach on this committee, but there is always room for improvement. And I still stress that, if the Commission has only been together once a month, it means that the ability to start any proceedings, find any problems or respond to letters has been limited. If it goes to the administration of the National Audit Office, there are people who can deal with it every day. And that means that capacity will also increase, more cases will be examined and, let's say, individual candidates will be screened one by one, as well as political parties and electoral alliances. That's why a good thing can always be made better. And if there's a way to make it better, I think it's only positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U152	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U153	Thank you. The National Audit Office Act says that the National Audit Office must avoid interference in politics, must be an apolitical institution. We can imagine the theoretical situation before the next Riigikogu elections. A week before that, the National Audit Office initiates, on the basis of certain data, supervision of the financing of a particular party. A week before the election! And let's assume that this is going to be a bigger scandal, because the allegations of illegal funding are also well founded, and it has a direct impact on the results of the Riigikogu elections a week later. How do you assess whether, in such a situation, the National Audit Office intervenes in politics or remains an apolitical organisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U154	In my opinion, the National Audit Office continues to carry out its main task, i.e. economic control. It is not an intervention in politics when it exercises economic control over political parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U155	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U156	Honourable Chairman! Good waitress! You have repeatedly shunned the answer to a very specific question today. Why have you not proposed to amend the Constitution? Why are you obviously going to break the current constitution? I would ask for a clear and concrete answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U157	As you heard before, I replied to Mrs Šmigun-Vähi that I do not think that this is a violation of the Constitution. He asked me that question, and I answered. So we can't talk about breaking the Constitution here from my point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U158	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U159	Good waitress! I would like to address you as a representative of the initiators of the bill. In supervision there is quite a well-known and accepted method such as this, be it the Bar, be it the House of Notaries, or even the quality control of the provision of health services, that it is the representatives of the various parties to a particular system who control competitors. And, as we have heard many times today, it has miraculously also come out of the Committee on Financing of Political Parties so far: only the victories of the Court, nothing has come back from the Court. You're always referring to independence criteria. However, if we reject this issue of independence, what problem is it really going to be solved? But when you get back to independence, name the criteria for independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U160	The examples of lawyers and medicine you provide are not exactly similar. In the case of medicine, it is still specialists who make estimates: in medical practice, one doctor gives assessments of his activities to another doctor. In a particular committee, the specialist is only an auditor who represents the National Audit Office. I don't know exactly any more, but I assume that the representative of the Central Party, who is a lawyer, also has knowledge in this area. For others, I have no information as to whether they are active in this area, whether they have special education in this area. But we cannot talk about the supervision carried out by specialists. We are talking about the supervision of ordinary party representatives, in principle, of their own parties. I am still stressing: I am talking about all political parties, not just one or two, I am talking about all five political parties. Everyone in the Commission monitors themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U161	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U162	Thank you. I listen to your answers, you insist all the time that you are just a draft waitress and that you have not been part of the working group that worked out this draft. And basically, you can't answer because you haven't been involved in this job. My question is, how did you become a waitress for this bill? Who asked you to report this bill in the hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U163	Why am I not surprised that completely out of the question is coming from the political group of one party? The three groups initiated a change of law. As a representative of one group, I will present this draft to you, and so will the Rules of Procedure. If you don't like that my answers don't match your understanding and your expectations, that doesn't mean I'm not responding. I'll answer the questions, we just have different visions of things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U164	Eerki-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U165	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I will start where you have finished: that the three groups have tabled this draft. So far, however, there is no position of the Government of the Republic. I have seen that the Government of the Republic has put this issue on the agenda for its meeting on 18 June. This is the last working day of the Riigikogu. So they will adopt a position after this law is likely to have been passed if you continue to do so. Several drafts of the Reform Party or opposition at all have been postponed by saying that we have to wait for the position of the Government of the Republic. Okay, the government doesn't want to take a stand, maybe a hot topic. But I assume you at least know what the government's position is. Otherwise, you wouldn't be so bold to present it here. Or, if you do not know what the government's position is, have you talked to the ministers of your party about what they think about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U166	As you yourself mentioned, the government has not presented its position. So I cannot express my position here without them either, that is clear. As far as our party is concerned, if our party is one of the initiators of the draft, then of course the people of our party are its supporters. We are one of the parties that has initiated this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U167	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, you don't have to be an expert in body language. One picture speaks more than a thousand words, and the protection of such a passionate bill is not often seen. But I understand, and I'd rather feel sorry for you. But here's my question. You're saying that political parties, like, control themselves. Do you, for example, distrust the representative of the EKRE in the Political Financing Monitoring Committee when it controls the funding of other parties? If so, why do you distrust your people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U169	I do not mistrust anyone in this committee. I never said I mistrust anyone. But things don't just have to look independent, they have to be independent. Well, it's got to look like it's got to look like it. However, whatever goodwill we believe the Commission is honest and objective, it must also look completely independent. But unfortunately, that is not the case now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U170	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U171	You said, in answer to Mr Kross' question, that when this Commission stops and the Auditor General takes over, things will not go smoothly on to the next institution. That's not what the law says. Please specify exactly where it comes from. And you failed to answer my previous question, which are the criteria of independence. So name them!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U172	Which one do I answer first? I wasn't talking about an expiration date. I said that there are ongoing procedures that have already been started. This is a very large difference in principle between terms, whether it is expiry or termination. Depending on the time limit set for the procedures, their expiry will depend on their expiry. But they continue beautifully and happily. It also states how it is possible to argue these matters further in accordance with the procedure set out in the Code of Administrative Procedure. It will then be governed by the Code of Administrative Court Procedure. And the second question was? [[???Saalist öeldakse: 'Kriteeriumid.'???]] Ah, criteria. The basic criterion is that there must be no interested parties in the Commission. This is a general criterion. I'll give you my party, for example. If I were in this committee and my party's affairs were discussed there, I would be interested, however, that things would be good and maybe they would not be dealt with. It's just coded for every party representative. We're human. And that is the basic criterion: the interested parties should not be assessing themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U173	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U174	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It seems to me that you have not quite understood the logic of the ERJK, as the presentation of this draft shows. It is a competitive process in its best sense. This means that there are representatives of political parties in the Commission, but it is still based on the principle that competitors look the sharpest at other fingers. They're all always there. And as such, the Commission has been successful in court. Now forgive me for such a joke, but maybe it's not a joke. Do you think that if the ERJK were a little softer and the million claims made by the Centre Party would stop, would this bill still be quick?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U175	I'm trying to think about what... This question was formulated completely illogically. Great suggestion: Learn to formulate questions clearly, and without a long introduction. I really didn't get it. A more specific question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U176	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U177	Thank you for the floor. I will then try to ask as simply and as specifically as possible. In response to my previous question, you said that you think now is the right time to change the law of the party. My question was, why couldn't it have been done in the previous composition? Can you explain why now is the right time? Now we are in the greatest health crisis of all time, we are entering the economic crisis with probably very serious consequences, tens of thousands of people are getting out of work, there is a question in very many families what will happen tomorrow. The people of Estonia need to be helped out of this crisis; the forces of politicians could go to the way to cope with the crisis and its consequences. Why do you feel in this situation that now is the most appropriate time to change the political party funding monitoring body?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U178	Draft laws can be submitted at any time by the political groups, as well as by the groups' associations, and it was decided that it would be presented at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U179	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U180	Dear waitress, You have always stressed that nothing will get worse with this change, rather it will get better. Please explain this to us. The current law states that if a party that has certain financial obligations does not comply with them, it will receive a delay of 0.85% per day. It is a very high interest rate, and it has worked very hard, forcing the parties for whom it has been applied to make an effort to fulfil their obligations. According to the bill you have submitted, this late payment will be abolished. It is, however, one of the coercive mechanisms that makes parties comply with their precepts. Please tell me why you're losing this coercive mechanism.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U181	As I have already replied to you in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, late payment certainly is not a measure that shows effectiveness or efficiency. It's like it's showing that now the job is best done because they're taking interest. It certainly isn't. This is one measure. According to the draft, we do not consider it necessary to apply interest on late payments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U182	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U183	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Honourable waitress! You mentioned several times that things need not only to be, but also to look correct, fair. At the moment, it seems to be intrigued that this is part of the Central Party's distribution of sausages and that they can evade the repayment of 1.2 million forbidden donations. You and two political parties raise yourself above the principles of justice through the power of the EKKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party. That's what it looks like. Do you think your constituents will like it? Do you think they like that look? Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U184	Your opinion is completely arbitrary. I can't imagine a thinking person can see it that way that way. I have said many times: all the procedures that have been started continue. You can't shirk your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U185	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have been constantly beaten here today that this bill is unconstitutional and so on. But I have such a question or reasoning that, in fact, the purpose of the activities of the National Audit Office is to give the Riigikogu and the public confidence that public funds are used legally and effectively. Among other things, non-profit organisations established by the State or by a legal person governed by public law are also subject to control. The General Part of the Civil Code Act provides a definition of a legal person governed by public law, which is a legal person other than the local government and the state, established in the public interest and under the law relating to that legal person. And this law, in my opinion, is a party law whose § 1 states that the party is a voluntary political association of Estonian citizens, aimed at members and support...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U187	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U188	... expressing political interests and exercising the power of state and local government. In your opinion, does this currently involve the competence of the National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U189	I certainly agree, yes, with this interpretation. I am still saying that we do not consider it necessary to change the constitution. We consider that this activity falls entirely within the scope of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U190	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! However, indeed, things need not only to appear but also to be correct. You answered my previous question, but in order to be clear, please tell me how it is on the substance side: which section of the bill are you relying on when you say that the Centre Party cannot circumvent this 1.2 million payment under this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U192	If you'd been in the hall before or if you'd been watching what happened here, you'd know I'd been talking about it. There must be a legal basis for any claim to nullify or terminate its recovery. This draft does not state that all claims become invalid, for example, or the right to appeal is lost in court. There are no such points here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U193	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. And now we're opening negotiations. If you don't want to negotiate... Sorry, yes, there's another very important waitress. Member of the Constitutional Commission, Taavi Rõivas, please! And then we'll go to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U194	Thank you. It is good that the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will also have the floor when discussing this point to present the Commission's debate. The Commission discussed this issue on Thursday 21 May. And this hearing was, you know, unusually long, almost three hours. True, there were other points on the agenda, but the lion's share of this sitting was devoted precisely to this very issue. The bill introduced, as it did to you in this Chamber today, Kert Kingo. I will not stop at all what he said again, but it is important that, in addition to Kert Kingo, Auditor General Janar Holm was invited to the sitting and I will open his views a little more thoroughly. But even before we reached the debate on this draft, the members of the committee protested that the position of the Government of the Republic was not known about this draft. And let it be said for the verbatim and for your information that this government position does not exist to this day. Now from context. First of all, as we know, since 2011, political party funding has been monitored by the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, which includes one representative from each parliamentary party. In addition, three other "experts" have been appointed there. And what was not mentioned here by the initiator's representative, at least I did not notice that it was mentioned, but there are also members of the committee who can work on this work every day. At first, there was a debate on why this law was really needed. Ms Kingo said that the full compliance of the ERJK with the independence requirements was, however, questionable, and she also reasoned: this was particularly because the composition of the ERJK did not fully meet the criteria of independence. It can then be concluded that, despite the absence of any complaint, it is desirable to refer to the alleged bias. And first of all, as I said, the debate was whether, if there are representatives of five political parties in the Commission, there is self-control or control of one another. Now the next part of the debate, which certainly deserves the attention of this hall, and which has also been repeatedly highlighted, was the question of constitutionality. The Constitution defines the competence of the National Audit Office in a very specific way. First, to control the economic activities of public authorities, state companies and other public organisations; second, the use and preservation of state assets; thirdly, the use and disposal of state assets transferred to the local authorities; fourthly, the economic activities of undertakings in which the State holds more than half of the voting rights assigned to shares and whose loans or contractual obligations are guaranteed by the State. Everything! That's what the Constitution says. The members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs naturally raised questions, as the Constitution does not provide for the supervision of political parties or, more generally, of the non-profit sector to the National Audit Office. In his presentation, the Auditor General pointed out that there was one opinion of the Supreme Court since 2009 and it pointed out an apology, it was a decision, an important distinction! Three aspects, in which case tasks can be assigned to the National Audit Office. And I will highlight these three aspects, because they are important in the future debate. First, these tasks must be specific to the National Audit Office as an independent body carrying out economic control. Secondly, additional tasks must not undermine the performance of the main tasks of the National Audit Office. And thirdly, we had the most acute debate on this in the Commission, and there must be compelling reasons for giving additional tasks to the National Audit Office. In addition, the criterion for assessing weight is, if there is no other, a better opportunity to carry out this task. If I remember correctly, the Auditor General used the words that it must be 'extremely necessary' precisely to entrust the National Audit Office with this task. The initiator of the draft was also repeatedly asked whether there were complaints to the ERJK or whether there were inevitable reasons. The record has not been received that they are present, and my memory also confirms that no complaints have been made. It was suggested that the Commission for the Financing of Political Parties has done its work well. So, in conjunction with this judgment of the Supreme Court, you can each assess whether or not there is a conflict with the Constitution in this Chamber. There were certainly those members in the Commission who felt that there was a complete contradiction. And now, from Janar Holm's point of view, what he put out there. He said that according to this bill, a great deal would change for the National Audit Office. In essence, the facade of the National Audit Office will change and there will also be a great deal more work. One example was the case, where the National Audit Office is currently dealing with questions relating to the financial affairs of a party and a negative decision is made, and if, in addition, an audit is carried out in the area of government of the minister of the same party, then arbitrary negative links may be drawn immediately and this would hinder the normal work of the National Audit Office. Janar Holm also said directly that in his opinion, the National Audit Office was somehow dragged into politics. He also said that as his Auditor General, he did not want to make politics. He felt that consideration should be given to what is the problem with the existing system and that consideration should still be given as soon as possible to what changes could be made in the Commission. He's got a lot of competence and skills at ERJK. He also gave concrete examples. And the Supreme Court has stated in its judgment that the integrity and objectivity of the ERJK vis-à-vis all political parties helps to ensure equal representation of the parties represented in the Riigikogu in the composition of the committee, as well as the membership of the representatives appointed by the Chancellor of Justice, the Auditor General and the Election Committee of the Republic. This letter from Mihkel Oviir of his day was already discussed here, but this was also the subject of Janar Holm's report. He also said that if the law were to give these tasks to the National Audit Office, in his opinion quality problems would not arise, but it is important to consider carefully whether a change that changes the nature of the National Audit Office is necessary. As you will notice, many of these wordings actually coincide quite unambiguously with the text contained in the Constitution as well as with the constitutional assessment of the Supreme Court, which states the circumstances under which such a draft law could be considered at all. As an example of possible problems, Janar Holm pointed out that the National Audit Office must respond to enquiries submitted by members of the Riigikogu. And there is a completely unsolved excuse in this draft, that is now my interpretation, the Auditor General said it a little more diplomatically, the question that, if, for example, the National Audit Office is dealing with a matter of a political party, would it be possible for the representatives of this party, within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny, to invite the Auditor General to come forward with an inquiry and so on. These issues have apparently been overlooked by the authors of the draft. Kert Kingo pointed out that the competence of the National Audit Office has already been extended to verifying the accuracy of possession, use and disposal of municipal assets of local government units, and the Supreme Court concluded that this task is characteristic of the National Audit Office as an independent body carrying out economic control. On this basis, he said that it would also be possible to control the funding of political parties. Janar Holm replied that this was a different matter in the present case, and if you read § 133 of the Constitution, which has already been referred to on a number of occasions today, we can see that the section on municipal control of local authorities cannot be regarded as essentially a different task. There are also several other details in this game. For those who wish to read more about it, the Commission's minutes are available to you. The Auditor General explained with several other arguments why these things are completely different. Jürgen Ligi, in his commentary, pointed out that political parties are not national organisations and, in fact, another very important argument is that the problems that are considered possible for the funding of political parties are not the result of public money. I, too, asked whether there were any circumstances in which it could be said that Kert Kingo's alleged threat of corruption or the risk of lack of independence would have actually been felt in the activities of the ICTY. Kert Kingo replied that, as far as he knew, such specific situations had not occurred. He was corrected by the chairman of the committee, Paul Puustusmaa, who has been involved in the work of the ERJK for many years. He knew that there had been suspicions of corruption in the past and that the members of the ICTY had also been sued because of the suspicion of corruption. Lauri Läänemets pointed out that he discussed this issue with one of the authors of the Constitution, Liia Hänni, who said that it is very important for the National Audit Office not to control NGOs. Lauri explained this at length and in depth in the Commission. In fact, the Members of the Commission also had a question as to why this draft has now been drafted. The members of the committee complained that there are perhaps more pressing issues at this time, which the Riigikogu must deal with as a matter of urgency. Obviously, some Members of the Commission did not understand why it is necessary to deal with this matter now, before the summer and as a matter of urgency. It must be acknowledged that there was also this suspicion that has been heard in this Chamber: that it is not necessary to stop the specific legal disputes of the central party of the government's leading party or to turn it into a ditch. In this respect, the members of the Commission and the initiators of the draft differed. The representative of the initiators of the draft act firmly stated that there was no way that the ongoing disputes could be brought to an end, the Members of the Commission pointed out that there were actually no implementing provisions to this effect and that this automation was unlikely to apply. How it will ultimately be, isn't it, the time when this bill will be adopted? But the Members of the Commission saw the problem in this. After all, these disputes, which the government's leading party holds up, amount to more than EUR 1 million. And there was a debate about whether this bill was urgent or not. The original proposal by the chairman of the committee was that amendments should be tabled by 4 June, i.e. this Thursday. This did not find the majority of the Commission's support because there is no argument as to why it should be so urgent. For this reason, the majority supported 5:4 votes in proportion to 10 working days. There was also a debate on whether the Chancellor of Justice and the representative of the ERJK should also be invited to prepare for the second reading. It was summarised by the chairman of the committee, saying that he would try to make it possible for both the Chancellor of Justice and the representative of the ICTY to be invited to this debate. And now to the decisions. It was decided to propose a draft on the plenary agenda on 1 June 2020, a consensual decision. There were 5 members of the Commission in favour of concluding the first reading of the draft and 4 against it. And as pleasant as it may be, in favour of Taavi Rõivas being able to make this report on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, all the members of the committee were also members of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U195	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U196	Thank you. Good rapporteur, thank you for the very detailed description of the Commission's work and for the review of the protocol. I'm going to ask the same question as the first waitress, since I couldn't get an answer from her, maybe now I can. The Prime Minister's party, which has largely initiated this bill with its coalition associates, has spoken of an increase in efficiency, breaking down a unit whose cases have had a hundred percent efficiency in court. Did you have this in committee? Did they ask what it would be like to be more effective or how it would get better if something was broken? What is the result of the Prime Minister's party and the entire coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U197	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu, representing the party of the Prime Minister, did not speak on the subject of the draft, and this is not the case here either. Excuse me, if I am wrong, the Members of the Commission can correct me. However, there is no news that the Centre Party has expressed an opinion against the ICTY in the past. For example, exactly five years ago, Edgar Savisaar said that the Political Financing Supervision Commission needed to be dissolved. Taavi Aas, who was then mayor of Tallinn, said that ERJK wanted the mayor to walk around with a bag in his head. And you'll find a quote like that and more. Once again, it is not up to me to assess the basis on which such assessments come, but it is not a secret to the Members of the Commission and to the general public that it is the Centre Party that has a number of very important substantive disputes. I can't tell if it's a coincidence. But I looked it up and took notes on what the debate was going on. At least one precept had a deadline of 15 March 2017, which is just over three years ago. Whether or not it relates to the limitation period that has been set out in this bill, it must be appreciated by everyone and by the general public in Estonia as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U198	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U199	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Did the Commission also mention the possible relationship between dark funding and political corruption? And if such words were not used at the committee meeting, what is your own personal position, is the dark money and political corruption connected?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U200	I do not recall that this is the exact wording on which this issue has been discussed. But the Centre Party has legal disputes and they could end up in such a legal vacuum and fall away. And so there may be a suspicion that the point of this bill is that these disputes will fall away. That was the suspicion. As far as my personal position is concerned, as in the economy, it is very important in politics that competition is equal for everyone. If someone uses an unfair advantage, whatever the doping, of course, it puts everyone else in a much worse position. And if it is found that someone has used doping in some sort of election or other situation, according to the law, the donation must either be returned or the corresponding punishment should be served. I think it is exclusively in the interests of each party, so that everyone is honest. That is why I believe that, if there are five political parties in Parliament, or like the six political parties in the previous composition, who all compete with each other in the elections, they form coalitions in the same way or the other, but in the elections everyone is competing with each other, then four of the five political parties are interested that this one would do everything right. And the other four interests, once again, are that everything is done correctly. I agree with those who say that political parties themselves can supervise their competitors. And it is likely that political parties are also best informed about the way in which political parties are financed, so they are also able to pay attention to the right things. If you ask for my personal position, this kind of committee has justified itself. There is a balance when there are five political party representatives and three independent experts. I do not even see the need to change this composition, but a convincing argument as to why they should be disbanded, I must admit, has not sounded either in the Commission or in this Chamber today. There is no convincing reason why they should be disbanded and yet urgent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U201	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U202	Thank you. Good waitress! I will continue on the subject of independence. The presentation by the representative of the initiators of the draft act gave the impression that the full independence of this ICTY was not guaranteed and that, if the parties' funding committee also includes those appointed by the parties, they would supervise their own activities. I will unblock the Commission's protocol from 23 April for the sake of factual accuracy. Then, among other things, a donation of EUR 50000 from the Centre Party was discussed, and Kalle-Kaspar Sepper, a member of the Commission appointed by the Centre Party, withdrew himself during the debate on this issue. But my question to you is: what kind of analyses and facts were presented to you in the Commission that called into question the independence of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission? In fact, the explanatory memorandum to the draft act refers to good practice that the Commission must be independent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U203	I repeat the sentence from the minutes, which belongs to Kert Kingo, the representative of the initiators of the draft: 'The full compliance of the ERJK with the independence requirements is, however, questionable, in particular because the composition of the ERJK does not fully meet the independence criterion. " How to understand this must be appreciated by everyone. But there was no in-depth analysis or reproach. On the contrary, the author confirmed that there were no complaints against the activities so far. If you look a little bit, you'll find this quote, this protocol is accessible to everyone. I'm sure you'll find it yourself. Like here today, the Commission confirmed that there were no complaints about the Commission's activities to date. It was questioned several times and the same response was received several times.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U204	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is about what started on this subject, that is constitutionality. What impression did you have: do the drafters not know the Constitution of Estonia and the restrictions imposed on the National Audit Office, or do they not care?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U206	Thank you. You put me in a very skilful situation with the question asked in that sense, that I now have to answer one way or the other, but I honestly say that I do not know what motivates them or why they are quite likely to ignore this inconsistency with the Constitution. After all, today the representative of the initiators of the draft was repeatedly asked about this, and he brought the debate to the Constitution about the amendment of the provisions of the law. But I suppose all of us here understand in the same way that if the provision of the law is contrary to the Constitution, there is no way that this provision of the law can apply without amending the Constitution. And this analogy, which is being attempted by auditing local authorities, is very difficult to understand. Local government control is also stated in the Constitution, true, in a slightly different wording than in the later law, but compliance with the Constitution is much easier to find for local governments than for non-profit organisations, including political parties. This is also what the Supreme Court has found, as we know. I cannot imagine which section of the Constitution would allow this task to be assigned to the National Audit Office. I really can't imagine it. But obviously, there is still a way to achieve this, hoping that there will be no legal dispute on this matter. It seems to me that there are grounds for doing so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U207	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said that a number of Members of the Commission asked about the problem that this draft will still solve. You did not say any of the answers that sounded in the Commission. Did the Commission come up with a solution to this problem? If it did, I'd really like you to light it up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U209	In general, the answer was similar to what sounded in this Chamber today. The fact that there hasn't actually been a mistake hasn't been a problem, but the desire is to make control even better. And there was, of course, a rather thorough discussion about whether this work, if it goes into the competence of the National Audit Office, will make the results even better, or whether the current level is good enough or perhaps better, if it were to increase the control of the second place. There was an in-depth debate on this. So the main answer was that there is no problem, but let's improve the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U210	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U211	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm doing a test right now to see if it's a questioner or an answerer. I also ask you that if the work of the ERJK is a competitive process and it has been successful as such, what do you think, if the ERJK were softer, asked less, filed fewer demands and a million-dollar claim threatening the Centre Party would stand still or disappear, would it still be urgent with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U212	Thank you for the pleasant opportunity to answer the same question Kert Kingo answered. It seems to me that the connection that has arisen between several members of the Riigikogu, the connection that has arisen in the press, the connection that has arisen between several lawyers who have spoken as experts on this subject, and this connection may not be quite arbitrary. But I cannot confirm this, of course, because if I were to confirm it here, I would soon be a party to a legal dispute with the Central Party, and I have no time or desire to do so. It really is weird. And if that is the case, even 10% of the reason why this draft was initiated is that the leading party in the government has the hope of gaining access to the millions of claims submitted to it, there is the hope of getting out of disputes that have partly reached the Supreme Court, then it is still very gruesome. I hope that all members of the Riigikogu will think that even if there is a 10% chance that one root of this draft will run out there, do you really need this bill? As an eternal optimist, I hope we can still think about it. It seems to me that the continuation of ongoing disputes in a situation where the ERJK no longer exists will be put at risk. As far as I am aware of the legitimacy of the ERJK in this bill, no clear implementing provisions exist. And if there is even a small percentage that these disputes are at risk, so that we cannot know the truth and we cannot know the court's position as to whether or not one of the parties was using doping, I think that is the reason why we do not support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U213	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U214	Good President! Good performer! My last question wasn't random. Today, representatives of coalition parties in the Special Committee on Corruption voted down a debate on a possible link between dark money and political corruption. In itself, it's incredible that this happened. But I have another question. I'm two weeks from your NGO, you have considerably more experience in the Riigikogu and any political experience than I have in me, trying to get the views of the political parties that were published on this subject. The ERJK itself proposed what legislative changes should be made to improve the work, and the parties expressed their views. I didn't want to start worrying about it in the back door, but I wanted to get it from your committee, but I haven't got it until now. Is it a new practice that Members cannot access the documents of another committee, or how it is done? Is this the order agreed in your committee, or what is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U215	That's an interesting question! Honestly, I don't know that's the deal. There hasn't been one during this term. I, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have had relatively little time during my parliamentary career, only during its membership. But my iron assessment is that Riigikogu committees cannot have secrets from members of other committees if they need information for the sake of their work. The Riigikogu is one institution, and if a member of the Riigikogu who is not a member of the committee wants access to either a protocol or a letter or whatever, there should still be some very, very compelling arguments if this access is not granted. I don't know, maybe even state secrets shouldn't necessarily be hidden in the bud by now, and it's also possible to apply for access. So I believe that it will be possible to resolve this problem as soon as possible. But to this first part of your question, just one thing that actually still sounded in the Commission, and which, as I recall, has been in place all along, and now for the first time in my memory, it is being broken. It is that when rules of the game are agreed, this coalition is not rolling over the opposition, but at least it is seeking the consensus of all parties. I remember some examples of my practice in the Riigikogu where changes in the electoral arrangements have been discussed. This has sometimes been tried successfully, often unsuccessfully, with the participation of all political parties. I have never been a part of this myself, but as much as I remember the creation of the ERJK and previous discussions on the financing arrangements, there has also been a search for consensus. And I think it is actually important to all of us that this principle continues, because today there are parties in the government, but believe me, I know from experience, no one is in the government forever. You won't be there forever. So each and every one of us has reason to think about this playing field being equal to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U216	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U217	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In this Chamber, about two hours have been discussing what it is necessary for and what is the problem with this monitoring committee or what it is unable to deal with. I understand the only problem is that he comes together once a month, even though he also has permanent staff, I think three of them. In the debate in the Commission, did it come to the conclusion that there might be other ways to improve its monitoring? The possibility of this committee coming together twice a month, for example, or some other means.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U218	Thank you. The Auditor General also made this point in his comments, not as detailed as how many times a month the Commission should meet. But he brought his written address to the Riigikogu, which was sent to the Riigikogu last Friday, that is to say, a week after this committee's discussion, if anything at all, then he should prefer to improve or supplement this committee. And he also pointed out a number of topics that are actually topical and urgent, which the legislator should now deal with: for example, certain loopholes, cases that were neglected by law. For example, the legislator has not defined the concept of an electoral campaign in substance or as a period of time. There have been cases where the rules of the election campaign have been violated, the election campaign has been used like public money. However, the concept of electoral campaign is not enshrined in the law at all. This problem should be addressed in order to make decisions clearer in the future. It has also been pointed out that political parties are allowed to borrow loans from credit institutions on market terms to finance their activities, but in practice political parties have also been credited in a different way. This topic would need to be written out more clearly by the legislator so that everyone knows what is correct, what is not. And the third topic that the National Audit Office points out is that the forbidden donation must be returned immediately to the person who made it and, if it is not possible to return it, it must be transferred to the state budget. The National Audit Office suggests that if it were always an obligation to enter a prohibited donation into the state budget, this provision of the law would have a greater deterrent effect for both the donor and the party in view of the consequences. Such are the observations made by the Auditor General, referring to problems that really need to be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U219	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U220	Good manager! Good waitress! Yes, we all agree that there should be equal rules, but your esteemed party has been in power for a long time. And if I look now: on 27 March 2011, this Commission was set up, which should now, as if, end its life. A year later this plastic bag story came to mind by a good colleague in this hall Kristen Michael and lost Kalle Palling and many other respected people... [[In the diner.]] I mean, missing Kalle Palling from the Riigikogu. And then, for over a year, there was a commission, and then the prosecutor's office got here, but the prosecutor's office decided at some point that there was nothing. Now this Commission has done a good job, has studied funding things and they have moved on to court, but when you were in power, this thing was somehow forgotten and rejected in the archives. Has it been a fair game? If this control were to go into the hands of the National Audit Office and some of the things would finally reach the prosecutor's office, would there still be a repeat of the story at some point, as was the unfortunate or lucky way to whom the plastic bag scandal was? It is also a matter of funding for political parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U221	Thank you for your question. We've been discussing this for quite a few hours now, and you're the first one to say, but look what the Reform Party did. For every debate that gets any more serious here, there's someone in the EKRE Group who reminds me that, well, the Reform Party was also in power and that's what you did. I remember when I was going, I think it was about 2nd grade after the Tallinn Väike-Õismäe High School, which was the 17th high school in Tallinn called Evgeny Nikonov, I had some classmates who often said to each other by arguing, but look what you did! I do not think that this is a hallmark of a high-quality political debate by trying to point the finger at anyone at all costs. However, as far as the case at the time is concerned, I do not know whether there is anything to blame for the Committee on the Financing of Political Parties on this matter. I also cannot say whether, if the National Audit Office had been operating in this field for the last ten years, some of these cases, which have been raised successfully for some of the processing staff, would have been successful, some less successful, would there have been no case. I don't know that. I believe that there is nothing wrong with the current supervision of political party funding. Most of the robberies in which political parties have been suspected and where political parties have thought that someone probably does a waltz, have been dealt with and some solutions have been found. Personally, it pleases me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U222	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U223	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question concerns the same subject that I also asked Mr Kingo about. This is a letter sent by the National Audit Office to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 29 May. How many proposals did the Commission discuss in this letter? And who specifically debated and agreed or disagreed with the opinion of the National Audit Office? I would like to stress once again that it has been said here: 'In order to allow the Commission, the National Audit Office or any third party to investigate more effectively the breaches of the requirements for the financing of political parties, it would be necessary to correct the gaps in the mandate and powers of either the Commission or the National Audit Office. The current wording of Bill 193 does not correct these gaps. ' That is a very serious argument. It created a debate, and who specifically spoke about the whole letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U224	Thank you. This particular letter, to which you refer, was sent by the Auditor General a week after the Commission's discussion. And I can only assume, but he must have found that some things still deserve to be emphasized in writing to keep track. As far as the Commission's debate is concerned, I have indeed tried to highlight the arguments of all the Members of the Commission. If I did not name a member of the Commission, it could also be because he did not speak in this debate specifically. Most coalition ambassadors did not speak in the debate, but when they went to discuss what might be the deadline and whether the Chancellor of Justice and the Committee on Financing of Political Parties should be involved. The main debate was between the opposition ambassadors and the initiators, Kert Kingo.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U225	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If my colleague Peter Ernits was the first, now I am the second to remember certain things. There is nothing to do if there is a huge disgrace in the history of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, then this is the plastic bag scandal. And if we have talked today mostly about a lot of good things that this Commission has done, then we are still talking about what this Commission has not been able to prove. If money has still been transferred to the cashier of one party with plastic bags and the Commission has not been able to determine its origin, it has not been possible to find out which of the mother-in-law's closets it came from, can we, however, on the basis of this case, not talk about transferring the Commission's duties to a less capable institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U227	Thank you. I congratulate you on your consistency! Still trying to remember things 10 years ago! Let us take this: let us assume that the Commission should have doubts personally about you or personally about some specific elements of my election campaign. They suspect, process and conclude that there was no infringement. In this case, is the Commission automatically wrong? I don't think so. That, too, is perfectly okay when the procedure is initiated to make sure that there was actually no problem. Nor can it be considered that every time the Commission starts something, it must go to the Supreme Court by four, even if there is no actual content of the dispute. But it can happen both for you and for me. I think it's okay, too, if in those things where there's no violation, you get to know there's no violation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U228	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U229	Thank you. Good Taavi, first of all, as chairman of the committee, I thank you for your very meaningful report. Thank you so much for that. But I will now turn to the fact that the opposition has today made very strong and expressive claims about constitutional contradictions. But according to the party law, the party is an association whose purpose is to exercise state power and local government. And now I come round to the words of Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder: he has said that, given the nature and importance of the party, the party's money should be controlled by the National Audit Office in addition to the audit. Could it be argued that Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder proposed that this control be transferred to the National Audit Office against the Constitution or not knowing the Constitution? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U230	Thank you. I do not remember this particular speech by Mr Teder. It is possible that he meant that the Constitution must be changed. But let's see what § 133 of the Constitution says. It is not possible to place non-profit organisations in a wider and specific way, even looking under any of these four points, even very carefully. As Jürgen Ligi said in the Commission: if we look at the disputes that the Committee on the Financing of Political Parties has had with specific political parties, then there is no problem with the money allocated by the state. The problem is that somebody has bought a house from someone under confused circumstances, somebody has made some kind of forbidden donation, and they have all been transactions between private individuals. It is not the case, or at least I do not know of any case where there would have been illegal use of the state budget allocation or something similar. I don't know them. And therefore, the very, very large-scale link that political parties also have part of the state's money or part of the political party's budget is the state's money, which, in my opinion, does not actually reach the logical finish. I'm looking at the script of the Constitution, and I can't find it anywhere. If you find this point, which would include political parties, tell me. However, in my opinion, we cannot in any way interpret the fact that a party is, for example, a public institution or a state-owned company or state. Political parties are not public authorities or state-owned companies; they are completely different organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U231	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U232	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Was it also discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that one of the problems that arises is that the staff of the National Audit Office cannot present personal opinions and opinions as the general opinion of the Commission? It's been a problem. At the moment, the members of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission have been better aware that they have been able to present positions as they please themselves, and then, let us say, serve them as if they were the views of the Commission. If it is, let's say, a few months before the election, it's a problem. Has this been mentioned in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U233	If I understand correctly, you are referring to the fact that, in your opinion, the members of the ERJK have made personal assessments, which could have been interpreted as the Commission's views? No, we didn't talk about it in the committee. And I believe and hope that there will be arrangements in this committee for who will speak on behalf of the Commission and how. Personally, I have not noticed any such inconsistencies. But for God's sake, no body, no commission is perfect. And if a Member of the Commission has ever said something that nobody likes, then I do not think that this should necessarily be a reason for disbanding the Commission. After all, this committee has done well in its work, and that is what the representative of the initiators of the draft said in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U234	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U235	Good manager! Good waitress! I quote the immortal thoughts of one of our good colleagues. I really like it. 'One defends himself at the top of the hill, the other fights in the swamp. One sees far away, the other wind blows smoke into the eye. ' Some may know that this is our good colleague Siim Kallas. But I mean that Silvergate thing again. At the time, your esteemed company was on a hill and saw far away. And those who were mostly "bagged" by this committee were in the swamp, using Simu's words, hating there, and smoke came into the eye. Can the activities of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee be dealt with from this point of view? And how do you feel: since this Silvergate story was eight years ago, maybe give the Commission ten years to look at it calmly? What do you think, or what does the Commission think of it? There was talk of three years as a deadline. I think it could be ten years or more. Everyone should still have a smoke that doesn't blow their eyes. Of course, whoever's on the hill is fighting for a better position...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U236	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U237	...as the one in the swamp.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U238	Yeah, that's a very tempting suggestion. If the EKE Group really thinks that this deadline could be moved in such a way that all the ongoing disputes and all these earlier things can be taken up again or that none of them should fall away, then, for God's sake, I personally do not think that this is a bad idea. Rather, I see a problem in the fact that I don't know where the initiator of the bill, sitting right behind you, has come up with a deadline for three years. He didn't explain why it's good for three years, but he's said three years from now there should be an expiration, and then there's a concrete wall ahead. But I look at the disputes that are going on, and I see, wow, there's an argument on the top of the hill. By the way, I would point out that when the Reform Party was on the hill, all disputes were closed. And if there was an argument that didn't come to the conclusion that the Reform Party was guilty, then that was the result. It would also be appropriate now that those who are at the top of the hill do not reform the law according to their own will, not start in the middle of a dispute that is in court and the court is completely independent in Estonia, to reform the law so that this case falls away in court. If it were to happen that you would accept this law with the coalition's votes, and indeed one dispute would fall away, and the question of whether the Centre Party or any other party was using doping or not would remain with the Estonian public, even for one euro, is whether or not the Centre Party or any other party was using doping or not, then I say that this is an abuse of power. And that shouldn't be allowed. I don't think anyone at the top of the hill could change the rules as they see fit, based on what's right for them. You keep reminding me of some old stuff. I would point out that there was no doubt at the time whether the investigative bodies were impartial or not. The Prime Minister's party was also examined if necessary. They found it wasn't a thing. It shouldn't be any different now. If there are doubts about the political party of today's Prime Minister, and we see that these are very serious doubts and disputes have reached court, then they must be argued to the end. I do not think that it would be very reasonable, or even justifiable, for you to change the law on the move, probably hoping that this dispute will fall away. I don't think that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U239	Valdo Randpere's procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U240	Thank you, good Helir-Valdor Seeder! I wasted my questions on the previous speaker, but I didn't really get any answers. Now I see that there's a person on the remote that answers the essence and understands the point. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Can I get back to my questions so I can ask two questions from Javi and get two answers? You'd get smarter too, we'd all get smarter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U241	Thank you. No, the Rules of Procedure do not provide that. I wasn't in charge then, and I don't know if there was a mistake in the questioner or if there was a mistake in the answerer. Maybe you didn't understand the answer, even though the answer was very good. You're thinking about it, and you might understand. But let's keep going. Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I also have a question about this long-standing so-called plastic bag scandal. Was it not the case that the Commission for the Financing of Political Parties dealt with this and handed the matter over to the prosecutor's office? The Commission didn't finish the case, the DA's office went on to investigate and close the case? So there shouldn't be any reproach here for the party funding committee. If anyone has a question as to why the case was closed, it's for the DA's office.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U243	Thank you for that question. Yes, it does not now concern a specific draft, nor does it concern the debate in the Commission, but it seems to me that the questioner remembers it correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U244	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U245	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When you answered Paul Puustusmaa's question, you referred to the fact that § 133 of the Constitution contains only four points and cannot change these laws on the basis of them. But I believe there's no argument. The Constitution is in some respects a general rule, a special rule that specifies the procedure in question is the Law of the National Audit Office. Paragraph 7 (1) and (5) of this Act should be that provision of the law, which would give the National Audit Office the opportunity to exercise this supervision. I'm not gonna talk for long. I already asked Kert Kingo that question in case you noticed. Do you agree with my line of reasoning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U246	No, I don't agree. If it is stated in the Constitution that there are 101 members of the Riigikogu, it is impossible to provide 102 members of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. If it is stated in the Constitution that the National Audit Office deals with state institutions, state-owned companies, the Constitution cannot simply be ignored at the level of the law or at the level of the regulation, or with the decision to assign tasks to the National Audit Office which are completely different. For me, the very strong argument is that the Auditor General, who is in office and whose impartiality has no reason to doubt, says that these tasks are completely different. Moreover, if you look at this letter from the Auditor General, you will see that he says that these tasks currently assigned to you at your request make it difficult for them to carry out their current tasks, I would point out, the tasks listed in the Constitution. So this draft is not only likely to conflict with the Constitution, but it will also make it difficult to carry out the tasks prescribed by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U247	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U248	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I remained to reflect on your claim that the Commission is doing a good job. Yeah, but good work for who? I want to get to the point with my debate that, let's say, creating political spite or making some kind of assessment in society is actually a good job for someone else and for somebody else. Let me give you a simple example to make sense. Mary Kross' false sayings were a part of the struggle for people, but for others, it was like a good job. Have you not personally sensed that at times some members of the Commission have exceeded their own competence in making assessments and that this has, to some extent, offended your legal sense? I have observed this, and that is why my question was whether the employees of the National Audit Office would enjoy the rights that we have when we put people on the committee at our best discretion in political parties, but they are anxious to present their views in the form of the Commission's positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U249	Thank you. I will be honest with you that I have not noticed that any of the members of the ICTY have made such statements. But I can't rule it out, maybe it is. But, you know, I will tell you one more thing: I believe that with most of this committee, my political views do not coincide at all, but yet I am ready to defend the view that this committee is impartial because there are people with very different world views. And if you look at the people mentioned by the parties, for example, the person named by your party is, if I am not mistaken, a lawyer. The person named by the Reform Party has had a very extensive investigative experience, worked as a prosecutor, been in various occupations. Several examples can be found here. The Centre Party is also represented by a lawyer who has no reason to doubt his competence. And there must be more. I'm sorry if I forgot someone! They're all different views about political worldview, but I believe they control each other. I'm pretty sure if Helen Vääl, as your representative, sees that the EKRE or the Reform Party has done something worth investigating, she'll probably do it. And I don't think he's gonna turn a blind eye to the actions of the EKRE just because you're with the EKRE in the coalition. I'm absolutely sure Väino Linde will do the same. He's not going to ignore any soccer stuff because we're in opposition with the Snots. That's the way it's supposed to be, and that makes sense. I do not think we should impose on the Auditor General the responsibility that he does not really want. And even less so, I want any government to be tempted. As I said, governments come and go, but I do not want this temptation for any government to have the opportunity to avoid, for example, the control of government funding by the appointment of a government controller to my liking. This Estonia, I think, none of us want it, at least I hope no one wants it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U250	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U251	Thank you, Mr President. Good answer! Does it have to be concluded from your reply to Mr Grünthal that Article 7 (1) (5) of the Law of the National Audit Office is, in part, unconstitutional according to your interpretation? This point specifically concerns NGOs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U252	Thank you. In order to make it clear to everyone what the National Audit Office can control, I will read § 133 of the Constitution in its unaltered form. The National Audit Office first controls the economic activities of state institutions, state companies and other public organisations; second, the use and preservation of state assets; thirdly, the use and disposal of state assets that have been given to local governments, and fourthly, the economic activities of companies in which the state has more than half of the voting rights assigned to units or shares or whose loans or contractual obligations are guaranteed by the state. What point would you place political parties or, more broadly, the non-profit sector at?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U253	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U254	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Policy has always been surrounded by some distrust, distrust about how decisions are made, who makes decisions and who influences decisions. It's kind of inevitable, because it also comes from the different views we have on things. If there was only one view, it would be a dictatorship, and that is not what we want. Or at least our party doesn't want to. But the more doubts about how decisions are made, the greater the problem with the credibility of the state. Democracy is built on trust. If confidence in decision-making is undermined, it is a threat to democracy. If the people do not believe that laws and decisions have been adopted transparently, why should they be followed at all? The role of all of us, i.e. as politicians, as members of the Riigikogu, is to disperse confidence in the decision-making processes. Unfortunately, this bill raises these doubts. At the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I asked Kert Kingo, the representative of the initiator of the draft, what problem would be solved by this draft law. He said that there wasn't really a problem, but there's always a way to make things better. Generally speaking, the principle of not going to fix things that work should be known. Even if the monitoring organisation is completely abolished, no improvement can be considered. The draft aims to entrust the tasks of the ERJK to the National Audit Office. However, Chapter 11 of the Constitution lists the tasks of the National Audit Office and the supervision of political parties or other non-profit organisations is not included in this list. Thus, adopting the draft as a law would mean going against the Constitution again. The Auditor General said at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: giving such a role would fundamentally change the nature of the National Audit Office and they have neither the will nor the capacity to do so. And all of this is planned in a situation where the problem does not really exist. Leaving even this aside, I am surprised that a coalition party that has been constantly talking about some deep state, some official party that is taking over the country wants to hand over control of politicians to officials. Yes, there are representatives of political parties represented in the Riigikogu in the ERJK, but we have different interests and different world views, and the fact that we are competitors who compete for winning the hearts of voters makes us look after each other. None of us would want anyone to compete with doping in this race. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U255	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U256	Unfortunately, one player has constantly competed with doping in these competitions, but thanks to the representatives of other parties in the ERJK and its effective work, this competitor has been constantly caught and punished by doping. Instead of training and competing honestly, the doping sinner decides to eliminate control because he has power. It is no coincidence that in the middle of a crisis, a coalition will come up with such a bill and that the Prime Minister will be in a hurry to deal with it. In fact, investigations into the finances of the Prime Minister's party are ongoing and new things are coming up. That's probably the sausage the Central Party got from the coalition partners. I would remind you that on 5 September 2019 the party of the Prime Minister was conditionally punished with a small fine and the condition that a higher fine would not be enforced was that the Centre Party would not commit a new crime within a year and six months. Mr Rõivas also pointed out that in March 2017, the Centre Party received an injunction, which would now fall off if this law was adopted quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in all our interests to dispel the distrust surrounding the policy. This bill does not do this in any way. On the contrary, this bill says that politics is about selling sausage and keeping your skin, which has no connection with the future of the Estonian people and the country. We therefore propose to reject the draft at first reading and we hope that you will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U257	Thank you. Priit Sibul on behalf of the party of the Fatherland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to this debate, I get the impression that I'm being forced to say that I mistrust the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. But no, I trust the National Audit Office. And I think it's a big difference. I do not want to say that there has been no problem with the ERJK or that the conduct of the Commission can only be justified, but if we look at what has been done in this Chamber, I think that those who do will happen. Let us recall, for example, the chairman of the committee, who was granted grants by a party and therefore had to leave. Palagani has also been monitoring this funding in the Commission. Members of the Commission have been sued, criminal cases have been tried, whether this or another person is suitable to represent a political party. I do not think that all of this would be necessary in the supervision of party funding. But now some of the nuances that have been to today's debate and the conditions under which I, as one of the initiators, signed this draft and in what form we are prepared to continue to process and support it. Firstly, there has been a great deal of talk here about compliance with the Constitution. Some nuances. First of all, the National Audit Office is also involved in the current Committee on Financing of Political Parties. So to say that they have no or no influence on this activity, they can't do it, they can't. Indeed, they are not the only ones, but they are one of the participants. Secondly, the debate about what or whom the National Audit Office can and cannot control has been in this Chamber several times. Today, during the debate, we have given the National Audit Office the task of controlling the larger local governments. At one time, it was discussed in this Chamber whether the National Audit Office is suitable and competent to control Eesti Pank, but now the National Audit Office exercises this supervision. I am not a lawyer, and I think that if necessary, this constitutionality must be checked up to the Supreme Court. It's been done before. But the reason why I signed was the same reference made in today's debate that, in 2009, when this committee was set up, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder's proposal to give these tasks to the National Audit Office in particular. It's been claimed that it's awfully fun that we control each other. I don't know, for some reason, we don't trust entrepreneurs to control each other, but we think that political parties are the best solution to control each other. In the case of entrepreneurs, we trust the tax administration for some reason. And there's another reason that Taavi said that he didn't think it was enough. This concerns public money, which makes up half of the budget of some parties, some more, some less. But this also gives the National Audit Office cause for verification. And political competition and control aren't going anywhere either. In that I am convinced that there is so much will in Estonian politics that the control by which we control each other remains. It has been pointed out that the supervision of political parties' funding seems to disappear. According to the bill that I signed, that is certainly not the case. The supervision of political parties must certainly not be lost; it must move from the Commission to the National Audit Office today in accordance with the procedure of succession. You can't have any holes or doubts about whether some things can fall into any chairs or something like that. I'm sure this can't happen. And if necessary, we will have to improve this draft together after this debate, after we have completed our first reading today. One of the issues raised is the issue of late payment. The delays are currently in effect, they are not in the draft. I am not sure that the current amount of late payments makes sense, but it does not make sense to lose them. We know that, in the context of the Tax Administration Act, we have changed them in the case of taxes. Whether to implement the exact same system or any other one here is, in my opinion, the subject of further discussion. The three-year deadline is due to the administrative procedure, but I think it is quite reasonable that we choose a longer deadline. Whether this could be like five years in the case of a first-degree crime or ten years in the case of a second-level crime is also the subject of further debate. As far as the debate in the committee is concerned, I understand that the National Audit Office does not want these tasks. No Auditor General has ever wanted them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U259	Dear speaker, would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U261	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U262	No Auditor General has ever wanted to be a police officer in charge of political parties. In this sense, I understand the National Audit Office. But tasks cannot be chosen, and if we consider it reasonable, they will have to carry out this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U263	Thank you. Tõnis Mölder on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U264	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I've been watching this debate right next door with interest. And why interested? I think there are few people in this Chamber who have actually encountered the work of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. I have been an alternate member of this committee for three years and a further six months. I must say that the way this committee works and the role this committee plays in the supervision of party funding is, in fact, absurd, to say the least. Let me just give you a few examples so that we can have this debate even if there is another reading, and even if we ever get to the third reading. One of the most remarkable examples I remember is this. As far as the Commission is aware, all precepts and other acts shall be decided by vote. I can't imagine if the police pull you over, one policeman will say you were speeding, the other will vote back and say you weren't speeding. But all decisions will be taken by vote. The best example, in my opinion, is the precept given to a member of a party who participated in a television show. He was prescribed to speak for seven minutes on this program. He was ordered to use public funds unduly. Another politician, as well as a member of one of the political parties who also applied for the elections to the Riigikogu, participated in this programme. He took the floor, and it lasted about six minutes and 38 seconds, and I might be wrong about that fact, but he didn't get his orders. As a result of the vote, it was decided that we would not dictate to him, but that this other candidate would be ordered to do so. This is an example of how credible this Commission is. Another good example is where a colleague received a prescription for a newspaper printing a press release about him. He was given a prescription. In fact, the person himself didn't give the newspaper any interviews, he didn't know they were going to make a press release and print it. This newspaper took a copy-paste from the BNS and the ERR portal, merged them and published them. But the precept was given to this politician who didn't know he was being made such a press release. Again, this was decided as a result of the vote. A colleague here asked me how it was with that plastic bag money or with Autorollo. The case of a car role is the clearest example. We were presented with specific facts: money was taken from one wall, one hour later it was received into the bank account of the Reform Party. However, as a result of the vote against 7 the procedure was not initiated by 2 parties. I do not think it would be bad if this control were not in the hands of political parties or politicians, but in the hands of the National Audit Office, which is an independent body against whom there is repeated confidence. I'm sorry, but this is where we all have to look in the mirror. Independent control of funding must be a priority of No 1. And independence can be guaranteed by an institution with knowledge, competence and public confidence. The National Audit Office certainly does. So the Centre Party will certainly support the continuation of this draft procedure. And once again, good opposition, don't kill the debate! Even before we arrived at the first reading of this hall, walk around without a bell, that the bill is against the Constitution, no. Let's talk! Don't be afraid of the debate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U265	Thank you. Indrek Saar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U266	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, What's to deny? It's awkward. The political sausage cart is in the middle of the Riigikogu hall and the smell that comes from it is more than suspicious. Why are we using this term? This term was brought to our discussions quite recently by the senior politician of the respected coalition. In the midst of the deepest health crisis, when all the people of Estonia were worried about the health of people, what will become of our people's coping with the economic crisis that inevitably follows this health crisis, which will become our economy, it said from the politician who has already referred to the child's mouth that the first motivation for the coalition for the additional budget put together by the government coalition is not how to solve the crisis, but what sausages anyone has. Since then, there has been a quiet debate in society, which is a political sausage. The EKRE and the Fatherland have already formulated Mart Helme. And now that this bill came before the Riigikogu, the very next day, when the emergency situation had ended, there was inevitably a public suspicion that we had also found out about the political sausage of the third party. And that is why I have to say that it does not smell good, and it will inevitably give a very bad impression of the political motivation behind this bill. The funding of political parties is inevitably a public matter. This is not just a matter of political parties represented in the Riigikogu; even less so, it is only a matter of coalition parties. And all the more strange it is to hear some of the reasons that have been set out. An interesting thing happened today. The Special Committee on Corruption wanted to address the issue, and in the preliminary draft agenda there was a point from the Political Financing Monitoring Committee, a guest was invited, but coalition parties thought it was not a public matter, it was a party matter, and political corruption was not a serious risk that it should be addressed by the Special Committee on Corruption. What else is a possible source of corruption for society if not the hidden funding of political parties, which we often talk about when we talk about the tasks of the ICTY and also what the ICTY has identified in many cases? Of course, we can hold a debate on how seriously contrary this bill is to the Constitution. But one thing is clear: if the National Audit Office is given the task of controlling the financing of political parties, if indeed the National Audit Office is able to control precisely this more hidden side, the riskiest, most risky side of corruption, i.e. hidden funding, which is not public money, but precisely private money, that right still does not exist at the National Audit Office, if it receives it, then we must necessarily consider that we are most likely to be in a position where there is a significantly different motivation in choosing the person whose title is the Auditor General. This inevitably makes it personal for a lot of politicians. We saw the passion the previous speaker had for this. Then we will no longer talk about how public money is used in public institutions, in state-owned companies, in local governments, but it will become much more personal for many of our colleagues and will create a motivation that should not arise when the Auditor General is appointed. So please, colleagues, let us also think about when we make our decisions. Dear coalition ambassadors, I understand you have an agreement to vote in favour of this bill. But think pretty seriously, I have the impression from time to time that you have not thought about it, how you explain what we are dealing with here, in the midst of a very serious crisis. For the people of Estonia today, it is far more important...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U267	Would you like more time? Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U268	...all the other things, not the way political parties settle or deal with their finances. At the moment, however, the Riigikogu is dealing with the most important issue of how to organise the supervision of the funding of political parties, in a situation where there is no problem perceived by the functioning of the ERJK's substance. Yes, this work can be improved and the ICTY has also made a number of proposals for this. I call for serious consideration to be given to the proposals that the ICTY have more powers and more resources so that we give them the opportunity to do their job even more effectively. But let's not break the thing that works, especially in the current situation. Once again, please think about how you explain to people why we are dealing with this at this very moment. The Social Democratic Party Group proposes to reject the draft at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U269	Thank you. Siim Pohlak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U270	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also start by saying that I trust the National Audit Office and do not agree with the assertions that a working thing cannot be improved. I'm sure he will! At the time the questions were asked, emotional claims were made that giving this role to the National Audit Office was unconstitutional, but in fact on the same subject, the task of controlling the funding of political parties has been discussed earlier, by the very mouth of authoritative representatives of the state authorities. Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder made a similar proposal in 2009. His approximate quote is: 'Considering the nature and importance of the party, the party's money should be controlled by the National Audit Office. ' I believe that the Chancellor of Justice was certainly aware of our constitution. I will bring to my good colleagues, especially those who have spoken about the fact that we too could belong to the Nordic countries, an example that the National Audit Office is performing the same task in Finland. So let's not get emotional and think about it! Anyone can propose amendments in the course of the draft procedure. But once again, this unconstitutional talk has been a pure emotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U271	Thank you. That concludes the negotiations; all the political groups have been able to express their positions. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of the bill 193, but the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party have proposed to reject the draft at first reading. We are going to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, attention! I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party to reject the draft law amending the State Audit Office Act, the Political Party Act and other laws 193 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 53 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Therefore, the proposal of the lead committee to conclude the first reading will remain in force. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 15 June at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U272	Ladies and gentlemen, This is not the end of today's Riigikogu sitting. All members of the Riigikogu who did not have the opportunity to ask enough or who did not receive the floor during the negotiations can now be registered for speaking in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U273	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable fellows! Today is International Day for Child Welfare, one of the oldest international celebrations. Congratulations, everybody! Because on that day, we are talking not only about children, but also about families, mothers and fathers, grandmothers and grandfathers, all these people and associations and institutions, all those who work for the good of the children. Kids are our future. Today, the future presidents, the future presidents of the Riigikogu, but also good entrepreneurs, strawberry growers, athletes, social workers, teachers and managers of many other fine occupations, and of course future mothers and fathers will love and care. On 30 December the representatives of the five political groups of the Riigikogu, the Prime Minister, the Government and the Social Affairs Committee addressed 19 organisations by letter. Their request was as simple as the draft law amending the Holidays and Deadlines Act and the Estonian Flag Act initiated by the Social Democrats on 13 January 132, which wanted to turn 1 June into a national deadline and also into a flag day. Already on 14 January, the Social Democrats' draft was processed and, if they wished, it could have been adopted as a law in accordance with all good legislative practices. But unfortunately, that didn't happen. The right performer was expected to come. And indeed, it was possible to wait: on 6 April, the government launched a draft that 1 June, child protection day, would be called a national anniversary and also a flag day. The fact that the government initiated the draft only on 6 April has created a situation where the draft has not been dealt with in such a way that today the Bill became a law and the Day for Child Protection - 1 June and the Day for Grandparents, which is the second Sunday of September - would have been treated equally as flag days this year. Today, when 30 years will come from the day when the Child Welfare League started celebrating Child Welfare Day in Estonia, we do not have a flag day. And it's not just because the coalition found it decisive to start the bill, not to have the right and necessary thing done together. This morning, when I read the news in Tallinn, my surprise was great when I read that on 1 June, including Children's Protection Day, national flags are also being raised for the first time, because in March 2020, the Day of Child Protection celebrated on 1 June has been included as a flag day by the government's decision. Calling Child Welfare Day a national deadline and turning it into a flag day is a signicant step in the right direction to pay attention to children's rights and to value professionals working with children. I called and asked the government's communications office when the government made such a one - time decision that child welfare day was called the national anniversary and the flag day. The answer was no such decision. So the information that Child Welfare Day is a national anniversary this year and a flag day is wrong and misleading. That's too bad. In fact, it's very embarrassing and sad. Today, on Children's Protection Day, I asked the Social Committee to include the preparation of the 115 major halls for second reading of the draft law on psychiatric assistance on the agenda this week. The first reading took place on 21 January this year. For the fifth time, I have already asked for this to be added to the Commission's agenda, and for the fifth time this proposal was voted against by 5 votes and 4 votes in favour. And this is in a situation where, according to preliminary data, in four and a half months this year seven minors have unfortunately committed suicide. In 2019 this was a sad figure for minors for eight whole years. Has everything been done to protect the children? Every kid counts. It would be good if we worked every day, not only in words, but also in deeds, so that all children in Estonia would have a good life, their rights protected and guaranteed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-01_U274	Thank you. There are no further requests to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 6.24 p.m.
