ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Attention! We will begin the Monday session of the 3rd working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries for an initiative. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, I am handing over the draft law amending the Law on Credit Institutions on behalf of a large number of members of the Reform Party. This was actually done before the coronaquarantine and stood by when the period began when only the inevitable drafts were in the process. But we believe that this bill is indispensable enough to be presented now. We are talking about amending and supplementing § 89 (9) of the Credit Institutions Act. This is a known paragraph that talks about customer protection and currently gives credit institutions unlimited contractual freedom, which credit institutions or banks interpret in such a way that they can quite arbitrarily choose the client and terminate customer contracts. So, in fact, this customer's protection on the shear has been turned upside down and protects not the interests of the customers, but the interests of the banks. The Supreme Court has found in some decisions that banking services are universal service in the Republic of Estonia. It's the same thing as electricity or water or the Internet that everyone needs. We have put in place a number of laws under which individuals, both businesses and private individuals, must be settled without cash. However, when people or businesses have their bank accounts closed, it is not possible to do so and comply with the law, for example, taxes cannot be paid in cash. We want to change this law and, in fact, protect the interests of the client with this law. The proposal reads as follows: firstly, credit institutions have full contractual freedom to decide whether or not to settle with non-residents, but clients of Estonian citizens and residents and legal persons registered in Estonia are obliged to serve the credit institution chosen by the client. That would be our proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U3	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U4	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent months, much has been said about the idea of putting the Constitution on marriage into a referendum as a matter of other state life. We all know it's fooling people. Firstly, there would be no binding force in such a referendum. The ambassador cannot be obliged to do anything contrary to his free mandate. Secondly, it is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. It would be right to initiate a parliamentary referendum in accordance with the procedure. However, no one dares to do this because we all know that it would be a vote of no confidence in today's government and the EKRE, and Jüri Ratas would never be Prime Minister again. In order to avoid playing with the Constitution and cheating on people, the Social Democrats and Raimond Kaljulaid will initiate a draft amendment to the Riigikogu's law on home and working procedures, which will prevent the law from being put to a referendum as a matter of other state life, so that the conditions for holding a referendum will be in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U5	Thank you. Heili Tõnisson as a representative of the government, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U6	Honourable Vice President! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will present today a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to approve the State's consolidated report for the financial year 2019. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U7	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer the drafts. I have adopted two, sorry, three drafts on behalf of the Riigikogu Board. Three drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U8	90 members of the Riigikogu registered, missing 11. Let's go to the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the third working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U9	There were 88 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there were no respondents, there were no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U10	Honourable Riigikogu! There is no item on the agenda today, and we can go straight to the free microphone. Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U11	Good President! Good ambassadors! I hereby present the views of the EKRE Group on the investigation of the Estonian disaster. It is gratifying that the Estonian Government has decided to initiate a new investigation of the disaster after new circumstances have emerged. The most important thing, however, is to ensure the impartiality and reliability of this investigation. We must take into account the fact that the history of investigating Estonia's disaster is full of contradictions. The 1997 official final report left many important questions unanswered and provided a basis for speculation for a quarter of a hundred years. The screaming contradictions in the final report have also been highlighted by the former state prosecutor Margus Kurm, who led the government investigation commission in 2005-2009. Let's remember. More than ten years ago, when Margus Kurm accepted the study of the Estonian wreck for the sake of explaining the truth, the then government led by the Reform Party unexpectedly took a rigid stand. The then Minister of Justice of the Reform Party unambiguously announced that the Estonian Government was not going to take any initiative on this subject and that this issue had been closed for the government. The recently discovered hole in the bottom of the Estonia wreck aggravates doubts that cover-up has been a conscious policy. At the same time, there are growing doubts that the grave treaty between Estonia, Finland and Sweden was concluded in 1995 not to protect the victims, but to prevent research. We also recall the attempts of our time to overwhelm Estonia's wreck and the truth with concrete. The EKRE Group considers that a new investigation must be carried out by experts from non-biased countries who are not bound by the Treaty. Companies related to Estonia, Sweden, Finland or Russia should not participate in research activities. We can be sure that even 26 years after the disaster, there are enough parties on all the shores of the Gulf of Finland who may want to prevent the truth from being found. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the investigation does not become a mere formal procedure to reassure the public. It must no longer happen that what happened in Estonia will be covered up and that the truth will be discovered in the sand. The truth has to be revealed if anyone likes it or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U12	Thank you. Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, My speech is from a completely different heading, but not less important, I believe. For the last nine months, we've had an uninvited guest here. This nine months seems like nine years to me. As of today, the so-called recipient of this guest in the world has been 33 million, one person behind each. The dead are over 1 million. When at first it seemed very, very disturbing, today it seems like a strange concern. People are so used to it, 1 million and so what! So what? That's how it is as long as it doesn't concern me or my loved ones. What do we know today? Trust in what? How long will our guest be? We know today that he's very clever. She's three times richer than the previous viruses in her gene, her hereditary information. And what is worse is that we do not expect him to get weaker because he has put in place a mechanism which, as the bank controls money laundering, controls that his hereditary substance is not altered. If changed, he will eliminate it internally. That means he's not getting weaker. Do we know how to avoid him with drugs? No, I can't. The vaccine is what we are hoping for, but today it has been shown that, in fact, our body's defence mechanisms are unlikely to be able to cope with this virus at all. Perhaps the antibodies that have developed, their duration, their effectiveness is unknown. This means that unknown is also the outcome of the enormous research, the vaccine's effect. So in that sense, we don't have a specific drug. Today, we only have the opportunity to defend ourselves with what we know. As early as 1910 in Manchuria, China for the first time presented masks to protect people. Today it is scientifically justified. He who says that masking is not justified and it has not helped, it has simply not studied today's science. It has been shown that wearing masks in enclosed spaces significantly reduces the chance of infection with the virus. Maybe a few percent stays. Why? Because this virus doesn't go through even the simplest masks, and because up to 40% of people can actually carry the virus and be infectious without ever having symptoms. Let me just give you this example, Taiwan. Let's read it! I've really been trying to get myself up to speed to figure out what's going on out there. We have actually done well, but we must ensure to our people that we continue to do well. There are 3200 registered cases of infection in Estonia. Let it be said that the number of all these recorded cases, even in other parts of the world, is likely to be lower than the number of actual cases. Taiwan has 23 million inhabitants, 510 affected, and the dead throughout this period, 7 we have 64. What's the secret to their success? I read a lot about it. They acted quickly, actively. They did not discuss whether wearing a mask or not wearing a mask was a fundamental right. I also have a fundamental right to be protected against infection with the virus. That's when we have to choose how we defend ourselves. They're not far from that Chinese town of Wuhan. The planes went, they didn't shut down the air traffic, they started checking, etc., and a lot of things survived. Today they have gradually come out, opened up, airlines are running, but they have very specific advice. That's just one example: 72 hours before a person gets a ticket, I'm about to finish! He must have a certificate that he has taken the test and five days later when he is present as well. Why am I telling you this today? Let's not wait for someone to pull something off. We in this Parliament really need to be the ones who set the example by what we believe, what we know and what is actually science-based today. In eight months, maybe it'll be something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-28_U14	Thank you. There's no more calls. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. Thank you.
