ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U1	Good morning, honourable colleagues. We will begin the session on Thursday of the seventh working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. I am prepared to accept inquiries and draft laws. But I don't see a wish. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U2	81 members of the Riigikogu are present, 20 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U3	We can start today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the amendment of other laws (transformation into a government agency of the Money Laundering Data Bureau). This requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for approval. Do the representatives of the political groups want to make speeches? There is no wish and there are no speeches, so the negotiations are closed. I shall put the draft to a final vote on 259. Two minutes aren't over yet, but can I put it to the vote because the majority seems to be there? Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and on the amendment of other laws (transformation of money laundering into a government agency) 259. As I said, it requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to approve it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U4	83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of adopting this draft, and there were no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U5	The second item, the third reading of the draft law amending the Labour Dispute Resolution Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Again, this requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? I don't see the wish for negotiations. The commission then proposes a final vote on the draft 214. Can I start the hall call or can I put the bill to the vote now? [[Voices from the floor.]] Got it. Honourable colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act 214 amending the Labour Dispute Resolution Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. For this we need a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U6	85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of adopting this draft as a law, and there were no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U7	The next item is the third reading of Draft Act 238 amending the Tax Exchange Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to participate in the negotiations? There is no wish to participate in the negotiations. Then we have the commission's proposal for a final vote on the draft 238. What about the call sign in the hall, can I put the bill to the vote now? [[Noding.]] I am voting on the draft Act 238 amending the Tax Exchange Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U8	85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of adopting the bill as a law, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U9	The next, fourth item is the draft law on holidays and holidays initiated by the Government of the Republic, members of the Riigikogu Jüri Jaanson, Signe Kivi, Signe Riisalo, Toomas Kivimägi, Mart Võrklaat, Annely Akkermanni, Kaja Kallas, Liina Kersna, Vilja Toomasti, Yoko Alender, Andrus Seeme and Andres Sut, and the Social Democratic Party Group, as well as the amendment of the Estonian Flag Act 277 (Agreed Bill 131 SE, 132 SE and 172 SE). Let's start with the third reading. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish to make speeches? There is no need to speak. In that case, we will have the commission's proposal for a final vote on the draft 277. No call, I'll put a bill on it, I'm not going to read that long name again to the 277 final votes. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U10	83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of this bill as a law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U11	The fifth item is the second reading of the Bill 53 of the Riigikogu's decision "The fundamentals of the legislative policy until 2030" submitted by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U12	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you, good guardians of the Republic! The basis of the legislative policy was precisely that draft, which, in all the ambassadors, regardless of the political group, was fueled by a great deal of passion, and in which the officials wished to reduce to some extent the work of the MPs. In particular, they provided that delegates should also develop an analysis of the intention to develop and, of course, the impact of their own amendments. Obviously, the ambassadors do not have the capacity of ministries. We know that most of the drafts come from the ministries. There were two options under discussion: will our so-called "cost compensation" be used to order impact analyses and be suitable, or will the situation be resolved in other ways? These were the thoughts that remained to be heard in all the political groups. At this point, I am pleased that you have the draft before you in exactly the form that everyone across the political parties found that the ambassadors themselves would not restrict their work. And that's how it went. One was tried, we were determined. On 20 October including the Committee on Legal Affairs, several consensual decisions were taken. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda. Marek Jürgenson, Jaanus Karilaid, Kert Kingo, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Paul Puustusmaa, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast were on its side. Secondly, propose that the second reading be stopped. Again were consensually by Marek Jürgenson, Jaanus Karilaid, Kert Kingo, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Paul Puustusmaa, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast. Thirdly, to propose a final vote on the draft. Again were consensually by Marek Jürgenson, Jaanus Karilaid, Kert Kingo, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Paul Puustusmaa, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast. Thank you. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U13	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to give speeches? The negotiations are open to all. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U14	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say very briefly a couple of lines on this draft decision. In conclusion, thanks to the numerous amendments tabled by the Reform Party, some of which were hijacked by the Commission in its own name, but some of which remained in the name of the Reform Party, this draft has become fully relevant. I may bring out a few nuances of particular importance for the members of the Riigikogu. There was quite a discussion that if the members of the Riigikogu were to initiate draft legislation, whether it was mandatory to draw up the draft legislation, or not. On the one hand, in the case of government proposals, we expect this, but we know that we ourselves do not have such a resource to produce the VTK. Therefore, it is quite unambiguously stated in this draft decision that if the members of the Riigikogu initiate one or another draft decision, it is not necessary to prepare the VTC. On the other hand, by the Government of the Republic, this draft decision received a significant correction compared to the original version. The original version stated that the Government of the Republic would not be required to present a plan of development if there was a public interest in [the draft]. Well, that's an infinitely widely interpreted concept. Moreover, here in the report on this draft, the Minister said that the public interest is also a coalition agreement. This would have meant that practically all the drafts could not have been drawn up because the coalition agreement contains most of the things that are being resolved. That would be an incomprehensiblely broad interpretation. As a result of the Reform Party's amendment, a much more specific and narrower list of reasons for the Government of the Republic not to draw up an intention has been drawn up. Here is an example: in the case of an urgent draft or the transposition of some European Union legislation on which the intention to develop has actually been drawn up. But the last, most important thing about this draft decision is that it is also respected and taken into account. I think the bill in reality is often not bad, it's pretty good. But, unfortunately, we only recently had one bill that we discussed in this Chamber, so that when we asked for a coordination table or a plan for development, it was said that it was not necessary, because this [draft] has been agreed by the coalition. If we view this draft decision in this way, it will not do any good at all. So my appeal is that if we vote in favour of this bill, in any case I invite all of you to do so, we will take that into account in real life. Above all, this challenge is, of course, to the Government of the Republic. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U15	Thank you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm happy to be here with this bill in front of you. I congratulate Thomas on his words, but I wouldn't quite say that this is a coalition hijacked matter. This is a very good draft, which has been born in close cooperation, and I thank all those who have taken part in it. A year's preparations have been made to bring this framework vision and these principles before us. They have now been brought before us and, indeed, this is a bill that has been born in the best way. It is cross-party and it is necessary for us. If we rely on our constitution and its preamble as the foundation of our constitutional order or the foundation of the national organisation and legal system, we can talk about the framework, vision and principles that we need to base our legislation on, and which should give us, as a whole, a vision and answers to questions concerning the proliferation of bureaucracy, the legal culture and the textual side of legislation, or the legal language. I would like to remind you that the Chancellor of Justice and, by the way, not only the last Chancellor of Justice, but all the Chancellors of Justice have used the Chair of [the Riigikogu] to highlight how our legal language has become complicated and that we have a lot of bureaucracy. This draft should lead to a reduction in bureaucracy, including in the legal language, so that legal language is no longer the secret language of lawyers or, as the media people say, the language of birds and butterflies. We should head that way. Indeed, laws are not just a tool for lawyers, as is an ambulance for doctors or a police car for police officers. He's actually for the whole nation. Every text of rights should be such that every reasonable person can read what it says. That is the question of legal language. Speaking of the position of EKRE, the Estonian Conservative People's Party has, of course, always been very strongly opposed to such long-term visions. But not because we have something against long-term visions, but above all because we rely on the Riigikogu as a democratic institution. This is not the best option if we, with our own visions, are to tell the next generations of politicians how to behave, what to do. They come by themselves, they come by their mandate, they know how to behave. However, there is no fear in this draft because this vision is very reasonable. These principles, which are set out here, are very reasonable. They frame important moments of both maintaining judicial policy within the framework of the rule of law and wider involvement. This thing deserves every support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U17	Thank you very much. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. I shall consider this to be the end of the negotiations. We need to examine the proposed amendments to this draft decision. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 2 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. Nobody calls for a vote. Proposal No 3 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of it. Proposal No 4 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 5 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 6 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 7 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 8 is from the Reform Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to take this into account in substance. Nobody calls for a vote. Proposal No 9 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the lead committee has proposed that it be fully taken into account. The 10th proposal is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The 11th proposal is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 12 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the proposal of the commission is to take this into account in substance. Amendment 13 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 14 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The 15th amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 16 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The 17th amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 18 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. And the last amendment, Amendment 19, is also from the Committee on Legal Affairs, and once again the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. There are no other opinions. We have examined the amendments and the proposal of the lead committee is the final vote on the draft 53. Can we start the final vote on the draft? If everyone agrees, I will vote to the final vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision on 'the fundamentals of the legislative policy up to 2030'. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U18	78 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of adopting this draft as a law, and there are no respondents or abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U19	The last item is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to approve the "rules of criminal policy until 2030" submitted by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Jaanus Karilaiu, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U20	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to remind you that the basics of the Riigikogu's decision on 'criminal policy for approval until 2030' was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 September 2019. I recall that the draft decision on this document, the fundamentals of criminal policy, is a strategic development document referred to in § 20 of the State Budget Act, adopted by Parliament. It is a visionary document addressing the main issues and priorities of criminal policy. It does not include detailed activities or funding forecasts. The preparation of the second reading took place at six meetings of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Five amendments were also proposed. All were supported by consensus, all nine members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were present. It was decided to propose a second reading of the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, to terminate the second reading of the draft and to hold the final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U21	Thank you. I don't see any questions for the waitress. In that case, we will be able to open negotiations. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U22	Ladies and gentlemen, We all want a safe society. Everyone has the right to feel that he, his family, and other loved ones are protected from harm. Criminal law is an area that a law-abiding citizen does not want to encounter in one way or another. It is therefore important that the principles of criminal policy be respected and used correctly. However, this is not the case in everyday life. Criminal proceedings have often become punishment in their own right. The proceedings are initiated lightly, and then they continue to be dealt with and dealt with by the police, the prosecutor's office, at all three stages of the trial. It'll take years. Throughout this period, a person under investigation and subsequently accused in court will be treated as a criminal. This person will be destroyed, his reputation will be irreversibly damaged. He's got a bad guy taped to his forehead. It is regularly broadcast in different media with big headlines and powerful slogans, all lights and whistles. And then one day it turns out that this person is not guilty, or that the act he is accused of qualifies as a minor misdemeanour, for example, he is found guilty of a bribe of EUR 9. This is not acceptable, and this is only one example. Or maybe it's the media's role as a judge, deciding once again to convict a person on the basis of big headlines and hearsay, such as beating a woman, even though the victim or alleged conduct has not immediately witnessed witnesses, it's just someone's allegedly heard talk. The media, however, have decided the guilt of the person and have placed the criminal in the temple in public, in front of the entire country. In particular, it is ironic that on the basis of the rumours reported in the media, the procedure is initiated regardless of the lack of evidence, of the facts. The proceedings shall be initiated without the victim on whom the alleged offence was committed and without witnesses who would have witnessed the alleged act. And then they keep working on it. The person's reputation has been destroyed. His family and children have been made a victim of violence in public against their own will. Where's the presumption of innocence? For whom or for what have we laid down this in our constitution if it is not followed? It is also not acceptable for children in kindergartens to be taught about living in the wrong body and to be introduced to the family model of wearing mother-mother-father-father-to-father or opposite-sex clothing as normal under the label of a strategy to prevent violence. All of this is said to be aimed at teaching a child to defend himself against paedophiles or against a person who has used or tried to use sexual violence against a child. How does this taught knowledge help this little child? Why are children not taught not to talk to strangers, not to go along with them, and the adult has no right to touch the child everywhere? Also, what if an adult has hurt a child, sexually abused him, or has been violent toward him? These are all frustrating examples. They're not made up, they're real. The reality is that those who ignore or violate the law do not disappear, and it is precisely those who need to be dealt with purposefully and effectively. That is why this bill is very important. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U23	There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. I consider the negotiations to be suspended. Now we are going to examine the amendments, there are five of them. The first amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Governing Commission's proposal is to take full account of this. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the lead committee has proposed that it be fully taken into account. The fifth amendment is also from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. There are no other proposals. We have examined the amendments and we have the commission's proposal for a final vote on the draft 52. Honourable colleagues, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic on the fundamentals of criminal policy until 2030 to be approved. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-12_U24	73 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft and there are no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, it took us 35 minutes and the sitting is closed.
