ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U1	Good morning. Good morning. [[It's buzzing in the hall.]] Calm down, please! We will start the 6th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu! May I ask everyone to take a seat and start the trial calmly? As always, it is first possible to pass on enquiries and drafts. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U2	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will hand over a bill by the Socialists, which we want to amend the holiday and holiday law, giving an extra holiday on the next working day for the weekly holiday or public holiday. When we look at the public holidays, we see that there are on average 12 moving holidays in the European Union, there are only 10 in Estonia. And if we also look around OECD countries, we can see that Estonia is working the most: 1748 hours per employee per year, Finland 1555 hours per year and Latvia 1699 hours per year. In the past, in addition to the Social Democrats, the idea of giving an extra holiday for a public holiday on the weekend has been supported by the Centre Party and the EKRE. We hope that we will receive support for this bill here in the Riigikogu Hall. Perhaps also to remind you that in 2017 the proposal "Add a holiday if the national holiday or public holiday falls to the weekend' in the environment of the popular initiative.ee was 1065 signatures in four days and was processed in the Riigikogu as a collective address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U3	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U4	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over the draft, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, which, I expect, many, if not most of you have been eagerly waiting and ready to support as well. We also received confirmation of this yesterday at Question Time, where Mart Helme said, in answer to the question of Keit Pentus-Rosimnus, that if you submit a draft that restores the possibility of a joint declaration by the spouses, it would probably be, or maybe he said,'maybe', EKRE is ready to support it. I hope it goes that way because actually, I'm just looking at the right side of the hall. EKRE and Fatherland, you have always talked about family values, the importance of a traditional family, and how good it is when people are married. Let's give them another motivation! In 2015, when it was last possible to submit joint declarations, 1/4 of Estonian taxpayers, declarants, did so. This is not a small draft in the sense that it concerns a very large number of people, it concerns a very large number of families. This would, as has been said, give the spouses the opportunity to submit their income tax return together. And this is particularly important for families with many children, as well as for young families where one parent is at home and the other one is working. I expect this bill to be very sympathetic. It would not cost too much, it would cost about EUR 15 million from the state budget in 2022. Yesterday, we heard another tax bill discussing that it cannot be implemented because it is ugly expensive, EUR 250 million, and the national reserves have been wasted. And now the second pillar of the pension has also gone to waste the money. But we may find 15 million to restore the possibility of a joint declaration to the spouses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U5	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U6	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning. I'm handing over the draft amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. The current law allows the use of descriptive verbal assessments at 1st and 2nd grade, which then means 1/6. until grade 1, and obliges the child to convert these verbal assessments into a five-ball system in the event of a change of school or at the end of grade 6. When we go to school, we have heard that teachers have complained about it because they have to do double work. From this very point of view of the Riigikogu, the Minister of Education and Research has expressed his support for the proposal to end this transformation. Orally we have consulted with the leaders of the student associations, they also support it, and in writing we asked for a position from the Educational Workers' Association, the Teachers' Association, the School Leaders' Association, the Student Association and the University of Tartu Education Innovation Centre and the Tallinn University Education Innovation Centre. All parties agree with this change, but recognise that the evaluation of children in schools needs a wider debate. The only person who was sceptical about this proposal was the educational innovation centre of Tallinn University. I hope that the discussions on this amendment will be broader and that we can launch a broader social debate on the evaluation of children in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U7	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U8	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party, I will refer an inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. This concerns the future of Ida-Viru County. We've heard in the last few days that there won't be any quick kicks, that an oil plant will come. There is no clarity about the oil refinery and it is not clear who will need the oil plant's production in five or ten years' time. These people who work in the oil shale sector in Ida-Virumaa complain that there is no job when they go to work in the morning, there is no clarity. They understand that the people of Viljandi, Tartu, Tallinn and Valga are not willing to pay more for electricity to have a job. Health and social indicators in Ida-Viru County are rather sad. Ida-Viru County has the largest number of households receiving income support. On average, people in Ida-Virumaa live 4.5 years less than people in Tartumaa. That is why we are asking the Prime Minister about Estonia's climate targets for 2030, which will then provide clarity about what could become of Ida-Viru County, and we are asking about both the oil and the refinery, but also about the mechanism for allocating money from the Fair Transfer Fund: whether this money will remain in Ida-Virumaa alone or whether the funds from the Social and Regional Fund will be distributed across Estonia. And another very, very important question: how will the people of Ida-Viru be involved in this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted requests for information and draft laws, which are dealt with in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, please, the presence check! There are 87 members of the Riigikogu, no 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U10	We can start working on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the draft law amending the Tobacco Act and the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 9. I would like Mr Mölder, President of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U11	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The grand chamber of the Riigikogu discussed this draft at first reading on 29 May last year. In the meantime, after the first reading and before the second reading, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has discussed this draft seven times. I have to be honest with you, this bill and this topic could be written in thick books. In my humble presentation, I try not to address all the nuances about history. I imagine that this hall will also remember this draft from the time of the previous term, there are certainly many issues that need to be clarified. But let's keep going. I now come to 23 September last year, where we discussed this issue in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. Representatives of the Ministry and various health organisations were invited, as were other interested parties in the specific draft. This whole draft concerns, in particular, the transposition of the articles of the Directive concerning the traceability system for tobacco products. In this respect, we remain at the forefront not in the European Union, but in the role of a red lamp. We have not transposed this traceability system. We were obliged to take it over not later than 20 May last year, but so far we have not. Despite this, we have a system that works in Estonia, it is temporary, so there is no direct contradiction in this sense with the directive. At our meeting, we discussed the amendments proposed by the members of the Riigikogu. I'll just go over them briefly. Some members of the Riigikogu have tabled amendments concerning the lifting of the ban on flavours contained in e-cigarettes liquid and supplementing the regulation of heated tobacco products. One block of amendments proposed by members of the Riigikogu concerns supplementing the regulation of heated tobacco products. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry has accepted these amendments and has also asked Parliament to deal with this issue considerably more rapidly. The main concern of the Estonian Association of Tobacco Producers was that the directive had not been transposed in time, and their wish continued to move forward at a reasonable pace. They also support the transposition of the regulation of heat-treated tobacco products, as in other countries in Europe, and the abolition of the ban on flavourings, which would make sense especially in situations where it does not apply in essence to the market, because e-cigarette liquids can also be bought on the market in Estonia and mixed themselves. We also had an Estonian WHO representative at this meeting, who once again emphasised the health aspect: e-cigarettes are certainly not safe products and are not heated tobacco products. I also dare say, on behalf of the Commission, that we have never pointed out that these are completely safe products. However, the health effects of these products have not yet been fully clarified. If we compare this effect with the effects of ordinary tobacco products, there are certainly certain disease risks, but the level of risk is significantly lower. In other words, it should be taken into account that new diseases may be involved in such new products. This side has not yet been properly analysed. The Commission also raised a serious question as to why the Riigikogu had not then been able to transpose these articles of the directive. Well, this is where I have to jump back to the previous Riigikogu, history. Yes, indeed, they were not taken over by the previous Riigikogu, but this debate has been going on for so long in the new Riigikogu. There was also a question concerning the share of e-liquids or of the secret market for alternative tobacco products in a broader sense. The representative of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, who was also present at this meeting, said that there is certainly a black market for these products in Estonia and that this black market can be assessed. However, they estimate that the black market for other tobacco products is significantly smaller than the black market. I now move on to the next session of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu, which took place on 22 October last year. There were also representatives of Estonian doctors and their organisations, but representatives of the Estonian Association of School Leaders and representatives of the Police and Border Guard Board were also invited. I draw the most attention here to the assessment of the Estonian Association of Lung Doctors. It was explained to us that all substances that are inhaled and are not atmospheric air are always harmful to the lungs. I think it's an important keyword. It is simply always a question of comparing different tobacco products with how harmful one or the other product is to human health. At this point, I would stress that the Commission's position is that, above all, people would be very aware that when they consume such products, they are certainly not health-enhancing products, but rather health-damaging products. The Estonian Medical Association agrees with this and says that the pulmonary doctors have dealt with this whole issue. I also stress what the Police and Border Guard said. I think their keyword is that of this procedure, see that it is the most important one. A representative of the Police and Border Guard Board stressed that it would be particularly necessary for the state to deal with prevention on this issue, not so much that we punish someone when the product is somehow in the hands of minors. However, the second aspect that they noted was that if the Riigikogu regulates what is relevant to specific products when dealing with the draft, the police will be able to monitor what is being done on the market with these products. If the Riigikogu simply prohibits things and we see that they move on the Estonian market, then the Police and Border Guard Board will find it much more difficult to manage this black market and regulate the whole system. And actually, let's face it, the representative of the Health Board accepted this opinion. He said that it would be reasonable to regulate certain products on the Estonian market and then to see what and whether to prohibit them at all. The ban does not mean that it is not possible to obtain these products on the Estonian market, the black market will certainly take care of it. Let's move on to this year. It's January 27th, and we've invited representatives of the Ministry to the table again. In particular, our interest in this issue was once again raised by the fact that we know that this draft has been put into Parliament's procedure with specific content concerning the traceability system. At the same time, the Ministry had prepared a different draft, which they sent to Europe for a round of coordination, and we were curious about the kind of coordination that Europe has received. In fact, one of the motives was that we saw that the Ministry's work plans stated that in 2020 a new draft of the same content could reach Parliament. We wanted to know what this particular draft contained or what was the point of the original text of this draft. In this debate, a representative of the Ministry said that they really have different variants prepared, which specifically concern the regulation of the sale of different tobacco products. In particular, they have based themselves on the arguments of public health. The Ministry would see as a solution that the products would be, in particular, novel products, classified under smoking products and would have a prohibited smell and taste. It is important to note that when we transpose this whole directive, we have focused very much on information, information. I think that the Riigikogu as a whole could regulate considerably more accurately in terms of information and information when transposing directives with Europe. This does not specifically concern this bill, but we can see that there are quite a few bumps in this regard, which we have not debated to the end. It was also sound in the Commission that we should transpose the directive as a whole without making any distinction. The point is, above all, that if we have fulfilled the task of fully transposing the directive, we have ruled out the possibility that sanctions could be imposed on the Estonian state, because we have not acted as intended. At this very session, we, as a committee, reached the starting point as a whole that we would not want to deal with the tobacco law and all these other laws every time a new solution or product arrives on the Estonian market. We would like to develop a comprehensive text on the basis of which Estonian state agencies can make decisions, so that we do not have to discuss the matter in this Parliamentary Chamber for every particular product that wants to enter the Estonian market and, as we know, there may be a great deal of them in this sector. We still want to make a comprehensive law that solves the concerns we have had for quite a long time in this whole issue. One of the grounds was that during this whole debate we also reached amendments in the committee, which included, above all, the aim of Estonia taking over the entire tobacco directive, which the European Union has introduced, and not making any distinctions in it. As for the ban on the tastes and smells of e-cigarettes, which have been applied, we would take one step back and allow menthol to taste. At the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee held on 10 February, we discussed the Commission's amendments very seriously. In particular, we focused on the nuances and the points concerning whether we need to determine at the level of the law whether a particular product is smoking or not. I must honestly admit that the terms are quite difficult to monitor, and if you are not interested in the larger kind of thing, then the subject seems rather complex. But our wish in the Commission was, I repeat, that we do not deal with specific products, that the law does not regulate everything specifically. Every product that comes on the market in Estonia is the responsibility of a specific manufacturer. It is the responsibility of the manufacturer to which the product comes on the market, it itself classes the product category. We have the competent authorities in Estonia who are able to answer questions as to whether the manufacturer's "categorization" has been done properly or not. We have the Health Board, we have the Technical Surveillance Authority and the Consumer Protection Board. This clearly means that a product that is classified in one category, but does not really belong in this category, cannot enter the Estonian market. Our main debate was whether we should give the Health Board some additional rights or additional obligations with this draft. During the long debate, we concluded that there is no need to impose additional obligations on the Health Board, no need to grant additional rights. The current law regulates sufficiently well how a product can be placed on the market and what is the specific activity of the Health Board in allowing or not to allow a product to be placed on the market. At our meeting on 11 February, we discussed once again the subject of the Commission's amendments in particular. We tried to formulate them as unambiguously as possible, so that we could all have a coherent and concrete understanding of this issue. The Commission's decisions on these issues were relatively uniform and understandable, and we also decided that the amendments made by the members of the Riigikogu and the Commission, which are identical, were incorporated into this committee meeting. And now we arrive at February 17th, which is already relatively close to today's date. Then we really discussed specific amendments. It is important to stress that the amendments proposed by the commission, or the Committee on Social Affairs, were unanimously accepted by the Commission. And in the case of the other amendments, which were either taken into account in substance or ignored, the attitude was relatively the same, as far as I am concerned. One of the topics that we dealt with very long and comprehensively at this Commission meeting was the communication of the European Union on the draft. We also had an MKM representative. Here I stress once again that I think Parliament as a whole could review this information system. We understand that there is an interesting situation in this respect that the Ministry responsible is proposing whether or not to make a notification. I'm not talking about information. Information is something else. In fact, Parliament has no say as to whether or not a notification is made. In fact, I think it would be quite reasonable if Parliament itself could also decide, if necessary, whether or not to make a notification. If Parliament itself is the initiator of the draft, we do not have this right at the moment. In discussing this, we reached different positions, which are precisely about information and information. In particular, the vision of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Commission was slightly different. So this debate is still ahead of us in the near future. And now I come to the most important thing, which is what the Commission finally decided. I have already marked the amendments, but also the other decisions of the Committee on Social Affairs should be mentioned here. One was that we decided to send the bill to the big hall for second reading by February 27th, or today. Mr Tõnis Mölder, President of the Commission, was appointed rapporteur. It was decided to propose that the second reading of the draft be interrupted and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 March at 5.15 p.m. Many members of the Riigikogu have asked why we interrupt reading this bill. I would point out that there is good practice in the Riigikogu as to how draft laws are handled, and we wanted to follow this good practice as a committee. When we make proposals to amend the draft, which substantially alter the content of the draft, it is reasonable to give all members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to submit amendments to the whole draft. When this time is up, we have agreed in the Commission that in March, when the sittings start, we will move forward on this issue, because by then the deadline for amendments will be over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U12	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U13	Thank you. Please tell me what studies say about whether heated tobacco products and e-cigarettes help to quit smoking. And have such studies been carried out in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U14	Thank you. As far as research into novel products is concerned, it must first be noted that studies have been carried out, but since these are indeed novel products and different alternative products, the results of these studies are very difficult to assess at this stage. There are countries in Europe that say specifically that alternative tobacco products are one way to stop smoking a normal cigarette. I imagine that there are a lot of people in Estonia who have stopped smoking after using an alternative product. At the same time, Estonian doctors say that they do not see that the Health Insurance Fund is starting to finance the withdrawal of tobacco as an alternative method. In this sense, opinions are slightly different.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U15	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U16	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. My question consists of two sides. The first is about the words in your opening statement that the whole process of regulating the tobacco market could be used to write thick books. I'm asking what genre they could be in. However, the most serious part of the question is, what preventive effect do you see on public health in this draft? I also have some in mind of my colleague's question of how this really affects people's health behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U17	Thank you. I think it should be a serious history book. And I think there are enough respectable professors in this Chamber, or even bookwriters, they can certainly do it. Once again, this bill has a very long history and many different aspects. I'm sure it'll be an interesting reading. But once again, when I come to the health aspect, I say that we do not really appreciate this impact today and do not really know how to answer this question. If we allow alternative tobacco products, I call them that on the market, they will undoubtedly attract young age groups in particular in a certain sense. But we do not appreciate that if a young person wants to consume such alternative products, and if they were not on the Estonian market, would he or she try a regular cigarette or not? In fact, such a comparison cannot be made. We do not know whether a young person who, according to his age, wants to try everything on his own would also give up regular cigarettes if these alternative products were banned in Estonia. I think it's unlikely. Whoever wants to, it'll try it all on its own and then decide whether or not to become a regular consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U18	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U19	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! The main objective of this draft is to combat the black market. Perhaps you can describe how this compromise proposal allows only menthol to fight against the black e-market in e-liquids? The share of this market is already estimated at over 90%. And maybe you can explain to the hall just a little bit about how the compromise came about that menthol should be allowed in adult products.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U20	Thank you. I think there are two aspects to this draft. One thing is that when making such decisions, we must primarily be guided by the interests of public health. And the second is that obviously we need to look more broadly at all the issues that are on the agenda in Estonia. Let us be honest: the fact that we are banned from some products in Estonia does not mean that consumption of these products is prohibited in Estonia. In Estonia, these products are consumed and, in fact, let us be honest, the excise duties will not be collected to the Estonian state, but all the damage to health caused by the use of these products will be borne by our country. So when someone travels to a neighbouring country to buy different alternative tobacco products, that is, of course, a problem for us in a certain sense. Consumption has not decreased; use still exists; the tax issue must be regulated. But let's get back to these e's: there was a question about the taste of menthol. Well, who says it's a half-full glass who says it's a half-empty glass I can't judge. But that was the Commission's proposal, which was approved by consensus. There may be parallels to the fact that in the case of regular cigarettes, the smells and tastes are banned and menthol is also banned in the near future. It may be expected that people who have so far preferred conventional menthol cigarettes will be looking for alternative products. It cannot be ruled out that one alternative option is precisely e-cigarettes. I would like to clarify one thing here. Once again: if we have allowed novelty products to be placed on the market without banning flavourings, if we have allowed them to be placed on the market at some point, then now that it is Parliament's will and will to make a political decision and prohibit smells and tastes, it is possible if we want to do so. But there are certain procedures that take time. Above all, this requires political will.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U21	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report, I heard several times the words 'probably', 'probably', 'presumably' when it was about the harmfulness of alternative tobacco products compared to regular cigarettes. However, it is a fact that these studies are not available in Estonia. Therefore, the question remains as to why alternative tobacco products are said to be as harmful as conventional cigarettes. But that's it. A more important problem for me is the fact that during this process, the fact that the European Commission has asked Estonia for additional information on the justification for the total prohibition of flavours in e-liquids is hidden from the members of the Riigikogu. The Chancellor of Justice has referred to this. My question: is there more justification for the Commission to ban the whole range of flavourings? I refer to the opinion of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U23	Thank you. I would first like to come to the first part of the question. These estimates are, in a way, conditional. In particular, I described the assessments made by Estonian doctors that we have based this base on the fact that these studies are different. And I'm sure there'll be more in the future. As far as I am concerned, the European Commission has agreed that in the near future, such follow-up will be carried out in certain sectors and wonder whether any other measures should be taken throughout the European Union as a whole. As regards the total ban on flavourings in the case of e-cigarettes, I can say that I would analyse all this problem as a whole. It seems to me, too, that the exchange of information between the Ministry and Parliament has been somewhat incomplete throughout this process. It was quite a surprise to me that certain documents from the European Parliament were marked AK. That is why we have quite often encountered problems with knowing whether Members who have to make different decisions in this Chamber still have complete information and whether all the documents that exist in the Ministry have been made available to Parliament in good time. So we really asked about the documents to clarify the matter. As regards the ban on flavourings for e-cigarettes, which have never been implemented, so as to see whether any further analysis has been carried out, no further analysis, as far as I know, has been carried out since the entry into force of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U24	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U25	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'd like to ask you a big picture question just to understand. It's like we're dealing with two different things. One is the introduction of some sort of monitoring system under this Tobacco Directive. Do the two articles of the directive that we are now taking over both concern this monitoring system, and these smells and tastes are like a separate part that we have of some kind of homemade stuff? Or does it also come from the directive?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U26	Thank you. That's a very good question! Not that the others have not been practical, certainly were, but that is a very fundamental question. In fact, all the issues we are dealing with today are part of the directive as a whole. Indeed, with the Ministry, we have had a very long and thorough debate on whether or not this directive has been transposed in Estonia as a whole. In this regard, too, Parliament has a slightly different view than the Ministry. But once again, it is our desire to take full transposition of this directive in order to meet the expectations that the European Commission has placed on us. Yes, the original text of the draft concerns a specific traceability system and part of the directive in this respect, as well as the amendments proposed by the Commission are specific to this directive. So this is all one directive. In that sense, there is nothing homemade here. At the same time, it is all up to us. Let us be honest, in certain cases things have been left to the discretion of the national Parliament of a particular Member State. However, if we want to make different decisions, we must ask the European Commission for permission to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U27	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U28	Thank you. A number of good Members of Parliament here have referred to the fact that experience in several countries shows that e-cigarettes are a very effective tool in the fight against smoking. They therefore proposed giving e-cigarette, as an alternative, the opportunity to be put out preferably and not hidden. Smokers might then make an informed choice to buy a less damaging product. The Commission has disregarded this proposal. Why did you come up with such a specific objection?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U29	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that all Members of Parliament are good, not just those you have counted. Secondly, with regard specifically to the way in which certain products have been placed on shops, the Commission had such a comprehensive view that we still treat all these products more or less equally. The measures that we have taken for regular cigarettes could still be applied to everyone. We don't want to make any distinctions. As far as smells and tastes are concerned, here we have certain differences. But, as I said before, if it is Parliament's will and will, it can always come back to this issue. However, this must be the concrete will of Parliament. However, it seems to me that, on the basis of various historical and current discussions, Parliament does not seem to have such will.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U30	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U31	Thank you. As this is one of the most advanced drafts in this composition, I will also ask you about the bigger picture. I would like to look at our alcohol, tobacco and fuel policies more broadly, including excise duty receipts in 2019, which were recently made public on the website of Statistics Estonia. That's my question. I see that all these rates of excise duty have increased quite strongly compared to a few years ago, but there is an anomaly in the receipts. In fact, despite the fact that alcohol excise duty is up to 50% higher than in 2016, the official data for 2019 on the website of Statistics Estonia show that tax receipts have decreased by a total of 10%. Can you explain this anomaly? This has probably been discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U32	Thank you. In the Commission, we did not discuss the receipt of excise duties on alcohol within the framework of this draft. Of course, we also had different proposals on excise duties on tobacco products. However, as the Committee on Social Affairs, we believe that it should be the responsibility of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to analyse tax policy. On this issue, what it sounded like, I have a slightly different vision. I think it would be necessary to compare a slightly longer period and, in fact, the original figure predicted a significantly larger deficit than it was at the end of the evening. But that's it. I think that the subject of excise duties on alcohol and monetary policy fall within the competence of another committee. We, as the Commission, also proposed that the Ministry of Finance and the Committee on Monetary Affairs, if they wish, should take this matter seriously. I am thinking specifically of the different taxation of these products. Here you can bring parallels from a neighbouring country with a slightly different approach. Should we take a template of them or not? It is worth thinking about this, not by law to encourage border trade. I think this is not good for the Estonian economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U33	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U34	Good manager! Good waitress! I think this is an excellent example of how much time is spent on a relatively small matter. I myself have had many conversations on this subject, not as a member of the Social Affairs Committee. And you said you could write a proper book about it. You've been in the middle of battle lately, can you tell me what the title of this book is?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U35	Thank you. Well, your journalistic background is still much stronger and wider than mine. I think you'll have this feather, writing feathers will be much easier to use than me, and use that knowledge as well. I don't know which title sells. I have looked at the top of Estonian bookstores, and I know that the book of one Member of Parliament is quite often on top. I mean Jaak Juske. I'm sure you can ask him for advice. He's got some very resonant headlines on his books.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U36	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U37	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You just said that you have the feeling that the great hall does not want to decide these things, and that is why the so-called compromise was born. It was only on 13 February last year that the large hall voted in precisely the same changes that the Minister had somehow interrupted. And today, despite the fact that we are taking the opportunity to interrupt the Minister when the great hall so decides, these things are not coming to the big hall anymore, because you say that you think the great hall is no longer willing to decide. What studies or conversations do you rely on when you take on such a role and think that the great hall does not want to discuss the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U38	Thank you for your question. Once again, I don't want to stay very long and thorough at this event a year ago. This is the subject of the previous Parliament, and let us not bring these historical parts into this new Parliament. But when we are dealing with this draft, we have really stayed at the Commission for a long time. The current minister has said that no matter what Parliament's decision is, he has repeatedly confirmed it to us in the Committee on Social Affairs, his draft is not in favour of being withdrawn. However, it is Parliament that is going to say the final word. I didn't say what you understood. My message specifically concerned alternative tobacco products, in particular novel, non-smoking products and the implementation of the ban on their smells and tastes, as well as asking Europe for this opportunity. My message was that this should be the decision of the large Chamber of Parliament. I do not know whether the large hall today wishes to implement this ban on these products. Rather, it seems to me that there is no desire to implement the ban. But I have not done any market research, and today's debate will show how it is going. I think it is also quite good that we are interrupting the reading of this draft, because then all 101 Members will have the opportunity to table further amendments. And according to the amendments that have been tabled in time, we can discuss this issue again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U39	Eerik-Niles Kross, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U40	Thank you, good Chairman. Good speaker! Again with this Tobacco Directive. If this law is now passed, will the Estonian Tobacco Act be fully in line with the European Union Tobacco Directive? And have we, in some respects, become more stringent than the European Union's Tobacco Directive, or, in some respects, more lenient? I understand that, in fact, under the Euro Directive, we should not ban fragrances, but we have chosen the way in which we are prohibiting them. At the same time, the Euro Directive does not allow the ban of fragrances on common tobacco. Would we also like to ban them if they were allowed? Where are we, then, compared to the Euro Directive in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U41	Thank you for this question, again a very good question. Indeed, the position of the Committee on Social Affairs has been that this directive as a whole must finally be transposed and that we do not make very significant differences in this respect. All the distinctions that we are going to do are that, if the European Commission allows us, we will make some distinctions, but yes only in so far as the decision-making power of the Member State is concerned. And in the case of e-liquids, this competence exists in the Member States. Indeed, some time ago Parliament decided to apply a ban on the tastes and smells of all e-liquids; today Parliament might take a different decision. I think it makes sense to have a debate, to discuss it. It's a matter of decision in the big hall. So if we decide it the same way or the other way around, we will certainly not go against this directive, it is a Member State's own decision-making power. And if you ask what other countries have done, for example, in the case of e-liquids, there are very different practices. But it would make sense to look at our neighbouring countries as a whole, where these products will enter the Estonian market in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U42	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm a little confused. For me, a compromise is a result of such cooperation between different interest groups and the ministry. Right now, the picture is that somebody in the ministry decided that all right, let's promise them a menthol, and call it a compromise. It's quite the impression that this whole process is under the dictatorship of one of the Social Ministry's officials. As far as tastes are concerned, once again I quote the Chancellor of Justice: 'The explanatory memorandum to the draft law on tobacco and other materials cannot say that the draft has dealt with the problems of restrictions in detail. Issues relating, inter alia, to border trade have not been analysed. " In the course of this process, did the Commission receive information on border trade and underground trade?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U44	Thank you. I would still come back to this so-called compromise. In particular, I would like to say that the amendments formulated by the Committee on Social Affairs are certainly not in a broad picture coordinated with the Ministry of Social Affairs. These are certainly not proposals from the Ministry; these are specific amendments discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. Why do I call this a compromise? Because indeed, the Committee on Social Affairs decided on these proposals by consensus. Yes, it must be admitted that at one or two meetings of the Commission there was no member of the Social Affairs Committee whose opinion we do not really know, but those who were present approached the matter by consensus. When you come to the border trade, as I said, representatives of the Tax and Customs Board and the Police and Border Guard Board admitted that there was a border trade. They see a certain upward trend in it, but they also admit that the overall picture may not have a very large share of border trade in terms of the budget. Well, what's very big? We are not talking about millions of euros; we are perhaps talking about less than that. The Tax and Customs Board also said that it is difficult to estimate the proportion of the black market for such complex products, but different calculations have also been submitted to us, and I think they are accessible to everyone. If necessary, this side can certainly be further specified separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U45	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U46	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I've been away from this for a few years and I'm gonna ask you a question of fact. You were talking about taxation. The regulation of heated tobacco products is quite comprehensively proposed here, and you said that your request has been that they be treated as equally as possible with ordinary cigarettes, if I understood correctly. It is expected to also concern taxation. I broke the Tax Act, the Excise Act. I'm looking at § 16 and I don't quite know where the nice sticks of Philip Morris, which they don't want to call cigarettes, are exactly located there. Did the Commission make it clear how much a pack of IQOS cigarettes will cost because of the excise duty? How much excise duty will be applied to this package?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U47	Thank you. Once again: as far as excise duties are concerned more broadly, as I said, this does not fall within the remit of the Committee on Social Affairs. It is rather the decisions of the Committee on Monetary Affairs here, and all the fiscal policy issues we have addressed to them. Now, what I was talking about more or less an equal approach, it is important to note certainly that I had in mind the different prohibitions and restrictions of use. In this regard, we have tried to treat them more or less equally. As regards which tax rate applies specifically to one product or another, or whether the product is smoking or non-smoking, as I said, once again: we did not want and did not consider it necessary to take on this role as the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. We are certainly not as strong specialists as there is in the Estonian state offices, where we are able to assess very precisely which category under one or the other product belongs. And once again, I would like to stress that there is a producer's responsibility here. Products that do not meet the requirements of the Estonian state are not allowed on the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U48	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U49	Thank you. Good waitress! Personally, it bothers me very deeply that they want to hit a regular cigarette and this alternative e-cigarette with one tree. This is, in my opinion, very unfair, also given that it has repeatedly been confirmed here that, in fact, the greater harm of e-cigarette has not been proven. It is said to be quite the opposite: it could be an alternative option to opt-out. Personally, I am a living example: I was able to quit smoking years ago thanks to e-cigarette. Therefore, I do not understand why the Commission has rejected all these alternative offers, which would also allow a person to take part in such a waiver. For example, a quitter with e-cigarettes could have an economic incentive to do so. It was proposed to take into account the amount of nicotine in the liquid when determining the rate of excise duty. Why did the Commission abandon it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U50	Thank you. I would still stress once again that all the alternative products we are dealing with, we are still talking about a product that is harmful to health. After all, we can compare them to whether one is more harmful than the other. Once again: we held these discussions, and we held them very thoroughly. Above all, we involved our own experts in Estonia, doctors, representatives of different organisations, specifically the health sector. And their message really was that they did not see the possibility that we would treat these products as tools to stop smoking. They are taken as one alternative if people want to. There are certainly positive examples, as you have pointed out, but perhaps there are also negative examples. We did not analyse this further and further. Now, however, this excise policy. We discussed it, we dealt with it, but I continue to believe that it could still be the role of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Ministry of Finance to review it. I would not shape the Social Affairs Committee's position on tax policy. Certainly, in the case of tax policy, it is worth considering that any decision we make means either a plus or a minus to the budget. The most important thing is that decisions in the state budget would be a zero starting point or a slight positive line.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U51	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U52	Good manager! Good waitress! I didn't ask you what the so-called'selling' title of this book would be, I wanted to know the substance of the title, after all, you're in it. But here's the question. You indicated that it was a surprise to you that some of the European Commission's documents were marked AK. What was the surprise about? And have there been any other surprises in the social directives and other European Commission documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U53	Thank you. I am thinking of the transposition of the directives and the opinions of the various Member States on a specific draft by some Member States, which has not actually reached Parliament, but which the Ministry has sent to Europe for a round of coordination in order to find out about the opinions of others. I understand that this is a common practice, and in all cases they are treated the same way, so they are marked AK. I just don't see anything in these concepts that should be somehow hidden in the broad picture. On the other hand, it would be very reasonable if all members of the Riigikogu could easily receive these documents and we should not make a separate effort to find out what one or the other Member State thinks of our thoughts. In fact, I stress that by "we," I meant the ministry, not the whole country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U54	Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U55	Thank you! My second question concerns a detailed overview in the explanatory memorandum, which has been consulted. That's what you talked about in the introduction. Some colleagues have said here that, indeed, in individual cases, the use of e-cigarette can be a personal way out of addiction to tobacco and nicotine. Generally speaking, if we look at global public health science, too little research has been done to confirm it. There are a few studies that confirm this, however, mostly not. However, there is another measure which has been examined very thoroughly and which has been recognised as cost-effective. This is that countries could encourage nicotine replacement therapy, as has been said by WHO representatives during the procedure. Has the Commission considered that instead of liberalising e-cigarettes, it might consider encouraging nicotine replacement therapy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U56	Thank you. As I said, we had a debate on this issue. Examples were also provided from other European countries where it is used. We took the starting position, particularly in view of the opinion of our health professionals, they gave it a very specific assessment. As far as substitution treatment is concerned, this is not the angle we addressed. But I still come back to the main issue. I do not dare say that we are liberalising the tobacco market, I think we are bringing it into line with real everyday life. Once again, it is no secret that we do not have products that cannot be sold in Estonia. Well, it is! We would simply encourage border trade and, as I said, we ourselves will be missing the tax money from the excise duty. Yes, I will say once again that these are harmful products and that every person is responsible when he consumes them, but health damage is still the responsibility of our country. We know that we have a solidarity system, and we all here and other people in Estonia are paying for it. It makes perfect sense for us not to give excise tax money to other countries, especially the southern neighbours. Not that I have anything against them, the southern neighbours are nice and always friendly to us, but we should, above all, be guided by our own fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U57	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. Now it is time for us to open negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U58	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! If I've said in the past years that this is the kind of 'Sherlock Holmes in Tallinn' I've found a more precise name today, it's 'Supertown Detectives' or 'Martin the Robbery'. I am thinking of the transposition of this directive and of the fact that we can monitor the package of cigarettes. The police and all the other specialists will find a lumpy pack of cigarettes with one tax mark and find out that it has not legally come to our country, but illegally. Everyone is delighted, just as the crime of Nasha Rossijas has been revealed. But I'll come to the point. We have a black market that we would like to fight against. Unfortunately, none of the amendments that made Smoke-free Estonia are accounted for, mainly in order to reduce the share of the black market associated with e-liquids, which is about 90%. We have tabled four amendments that the chairman of the committee has put everything together. First, reduce the excise duty from 2 000 to 10 000%. Secondly, the abolition of the ban on total flavours, which has already been adopted once by the large hall, with a view to the collection of excise duties. Thirdly, we are the world's cyber defence centre, but we are the only country in the world where domestic sales are prohibited. And the fourth suggestion was that these products be out. Instead, there was some sort of compromise. People are asking me questions to understand the meaning of this compromise. I'll explain. Dear people, who are watching us over the Internet! Imagine men coming to think that women are gonna cream themselves too much one day. True, they cream themselves in the morning, they cream themselves at lunchtime, they cream them at night. And they're gonna put makeup on themselves. And the men decide, "No creaming. " All the more so because, from an environmental point of view, there are too many cream bottles. Women say, "Hey, guys! Really?! " And then the men will think, " Well, well, there should be some compromise, taking into account the wishes of the women. " And they remember that once there was some kind of pine-scented foot cream, that's what we promise. So that's a compromise. We're talking about an adult product right now. And then the ministry officials find that the adults are so helpless and so weak that we should give them a hand. We forbid the taste of adults and forbid the smell of adults, then forbid some colors for adults, and then for adults some sizes, some lengths, some widths. There is no question for us Conservatives. We fight to make sure that a person has a free choice to choose the colour, smell and taste that he or she likes. It should be a priority for the Liberals, but look, the Liberals decide otherwise. So, what's the problem? The question is, there's another show called Save Willy. So how do you save Tanel Kiik from a difficult situation where he actually represents a social democratic worldview, but is at the same time a minister of the Centre Party? It's really hard being in a coalition where you suddenly have three or four sides. Three parties or four counterparties, today as it is, tomorrow. I think nothing's gonna happen if we don't just process it. As you have seen, last May 20th was a deadline, nothing has happened. Nothing happens even if we don't process it. We can make exactly the same proposals, but the Commission consensually decides that it will not support any of them. You're asking me, "Why? 'But because the chairman of the commission is handing out a small fortune cookie for everyone, that we will now compromise, and then at the end of the evening, at the very end of the night, when you open your fortune cookie, you will find the letter 'Member of the National Riigikogu, but still believe in fortune cookie'. We stand for freedom. We stand for everyone to choose colour, taste, smell, size, actuation and style, not in the way that we are told that now be the only preference of the Estonian people to menthol, and in a situation where the heating products are actually allowed to have different flavors and a water pipe. I leave this hall with Tõnis to decide this thing and I propose to the Conservatives and Liberals: we do not need to decide for adults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U59	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U60	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm starting right now because smoking is a taboo for me and I absolutely don't like it when someone smokes. But we have to admit that everything that is forbidden, many people like it, and in the situation where we are today, we have to take this into account. We recognise that a very decisive step was taken last summer by reducing excise duty on alcohol, as the flow of excise money to Latvia had to be stopped by the new coalition. As the Tuesday of this week's Postimees read, this decision has so far been relatively successful. The alcohol turnover of border trade has fallen by about 50%. However, consumers of novel tobacco products continue to shop at border shops and in other Member States. While there are not tens of thousands of them, certain groups still go beyond the borders where alcohol is bought. We cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that, in the case of certain products, we ourselves have created a situation where the consumer has the incentive to go to the border store, either because of price or because of availability. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has discussed separately the taxation of e-cigarettes and the possibility that the excise duty rate of e-cigarettes applied in Estonia is too high in favour of border trade. The black market for border trade and e-cigarette liquids was also supported by the ban on the tastes of e-cigarettes that came into force in summer 2019, which directs Estonian consumers to mix their tastes themselves. Therefore, it might be logical to allow some additional unattractive tastes for young people, such as menthols, to alleviate an undesirable public health situation in which consumers themselves mix e-liquids in order to give them a taste. The debate on the excise duty on e-liquids, which falls within the competence of the Committee on Finance, is scheduled for the next month. Following the approval of amendments to the Tobacco Act and the Excise Act, it should also be possible to market new smoke-free products in Estonia, which are currently introduced from neighbouring countries. For example, we have already set excise duty on novel heat-treated tobacco products in January 2018, but since the tobacco law needed remediation, excise duty has not been collected from them to the Estonian budget. According to public data, this excise duty continues to be passed on to the Latvian budget by Estonian consumers. Recently, news was published that this category of goods is the fastest growing in border shops and it would be unjustified to assume that only Latvian residents are buying it, which may even be true for alcohol because of certain price differences. But the prices of tobacco products are strictly regulated, which is why the interest of the Latvian people in buying tobacco at the border store is non-existent. Thus, the people of Estonia go to the border shop to buy these products. The creation of a broad-based tax base for tobacco and other nicotine products already consumed on the market is essential. Price regulation is also known to be one of the most effective measures to control and reduce tobacco consumption. Estonia is not an island. Therefore, the Estonian state must have the opportunity to regulate and correctly tax products sold in neighbouring countries. This is also in order not to encourage the emergence of smuggling and border trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U61	Thank you. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U62	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, 'What do you do, dear Riigikogu? Please do your job! 'The words said by President Ugala may be viewed both ways, but in the case of the saga of the transposition of the Tobacco Directive, it would look like a fist in the eyehole. When transposing the Tobacco Directive, the various formations of the Riigikogu have shown outstanding inadequacy, while the executive power has shown the same outstanding ability to ignore the political will of the parliament. The Minister of Social Affairs is the last to complain about the delays in the transposition of the Tobacco Directive by the Riigikogu, but he too, rather than looking in the mirror, felt it necessary to announce from the Riigikogu on 6 January 2020 that it is within the competence of the Riigikogu to deal with the adoption of this directive. The attack is known to be the best defense. This principle has been known and has been used by almost all recent ministers responsible for social affairs. Whether they have done so by their own political conviction and will, even in conflict with the prevailing views of their home party, or whether official pressure has been stronger than the popular mandate given to the Riigikogu. Let's refresh the memory! Both the implementation of the detection and monitoring system and the regulation of novel smoke-free products are the same transposition of Directive 214/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, the so-called Tobacco Directive into Estonian law. On both of these issues, the Tobacco Directive has not been transposed into Estonian law. I would stress that we are talking about the same directive on both issues. It is also time to realise that the directive's transposition into our law does not deal with the placing on the market of one product or another. The transposition of the Directive is purely a legislative matter. Those matters concerning the admissibility of one or the other product shall be dealt with by the administrative authorities competent for that purpose. Intermediate attempts by the executive to force Parliament to decide which category one or the other tobacco product belongs to were embarrassing. The first attempt to transpose the Tobacco Directive was also made in 2016 in the Riigikogu for novel smoke-free products. It failed. The second experiment was carried out at the beginning of 2019. Apparently, many of the current members of the Riigikogu remember the procedural chaos caused in the Riigikogu hall a little more than a year ago, on 13 February 2019 the draft 775 at second reading. After the Riigikogu had voted in the draft by more than three votes, the Riigikogu Board interrupted the second reading on the basis of the conditional letter of the Minister of Health and Labour to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. In order to do so, a Prime Minister who was currently campaigning for an election campaign was searched for on the phone and allegedly gave his consent to interrupt the second reading by telephone. Two factors made this political parade particularly grotesque. First, the Minister for Health and Labour, in a letter previously sent to the Social Affairs Committee on 28 January 2019, had supported the inclusion of provisions on heated tobacco products in draft 775 and, second, on 13 February 2019, after the cessation of reading, the deadline for submitting new proposals was set at 27 February 2019. By this time the previous Riigikogu had, as we know, finished its work. Thus, the suspension of the second reading of the draft at the time meant that the draft had been dropped. My good colleague, Toomas Kivimägi, has ironically said on several occasions that the procedure is among the fine arts. There is no need to be a special prophet to predict the continued practice of this art by the executive. According to Article 29 of the Tobacco Directive, the Directive should have been fully transposed into Estonian law by 20 May 2016. It was at that time that the previous Tobacco Directive expired. Even if we are not able to process bill No 9 properly and adopt it as a law, we will soon celebrate the fourth anniversary of the delay. But not only. It is likely that the State will also pay fines due to delays. Exactly a month ago, on 27 January, Margus Reiland wrote in Äripäev that Estonia was threatened with infringement proceedings for late transposition of the Tobacco Directive, which could result in a fine being imposed on Estonia. Reiland calculates that the basic amount of the fine may be between EUR 258000 and EUR 400000, to which a penalty payment of EUR 3000 to EUR 4000 per day may be added. The Ministry of Social Affairs has tried to keep a low profile on the issue of fines, as if this problem did not exist. I don't know why. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone understand what, and for what, the Estonian state has been doing everything in its power to delay the transposition of the Tobacco Directive and finally to get the fine bill from Brussels over several years? My deep conviction is that it is time to put an end to this delay and to adopt Bill No 9 as proposed unanimously by the Committee on Social Affairs as a law. I would like to stress here the consensus of the Committee on Social Affairs in support of the draft and the amendments made to it. This is a rare case in which the coalition and opposition stand together to a large extent. Finally, I just want to point out that smoking is harmful to health. I've never smoked, and I'm not gonna do it either, but I think that whatever things have to be regulated so that we can act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U63	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, I'm asking for an extra three minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U64	Extra time: five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U65	Thank you. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. The negotiations are over and we are going to the examination of the amendments. We are reviewing amendments to bill No 9. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, is to be fully taken into account. Doesn't anybody call for a vote? Kalvi Tough, on behalf of the group?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U66	Thank you. We call for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U67	At the request of the Social Democratic Party Group, the first amendment will be voted on. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I will specify exactly what we are now going to vote on. This is the first amendment of bill No 9, made by the Committee on Social Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The Social Democratic Party Group is asking for this amendment to be voted on. If we vote in favour of this amendment, this proposal goes to the bill, if we vote against it, the bill will move forward without this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, against 7. The amendment found support and goes into the bill. We are going further: the second amendment, the long and comprehensive amendment, has also been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. No political group is calling for a vote, so we will take the following amendment. This is proposal No 3, once again very voluminous, and it has been presented by two separate groups of members of the Riigikogu. One group is Hele Everaus, Vilja Toomas, Signe Riisalo, Jürgen Ligi, Erkki Keldo, Heiki Kranich and Toomas Kivimägi, and the other group is Tarmo Kruusimäe, Priit Sibul, Heiki Hepner, Madis Milling, Üllar Saaremäe, Urmas Espenberg, Urmas Reitelmann, Vilja Toomast, Peeter Ernits, Annely Akkermann and Jaak Madison. The Governing Commission's proposal is to take this into account in substance, on the basis of Amendment 2, which was accepted. No one from the authors calls for a vote, so we will take the fourth amendment. The fourth amendment has been tabled again by a group of members of the Riigikogu: Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heiki Hepner, Eerik-Niles Kross, Madis Milling, Üllar Saaremäe, Urmas Espenberg, Urmas Reitelmann, Vilja Toomast, Peeter Ernits, Annely Akkermann, Toomas Kivimägi and Jaak Madison. The commission has disregarded this and the proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act. That's the story. Amendment 5, tabled again by a group of members of the Riigikogu: Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heiki Hepner, Eerik-Niles Kross, Madis Milling, Üllar Saaremäe, Urmas Espenberg, Urmas Reitelmann, Vilja Toomast, Peeter Ernits, Annely Akkermann, Toomas Kivimägi and Jaak Madison. The commission has decided not to do so and the proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 6 has also been tabled by a group of members of the Riigikogu: Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heiki Hepner, Eerik-Niles Kross, Madis Milling, Üllar Saaremäe, Urmas Espenberg, Urmas Reitelmann, Vilja Toomast, Peeter Ernits, Annely Akkermann, Toomas Kivimägi and Jaak Madison. The commission has also disregarded this proposal and is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 8, tabled by Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heiki Hepner, Eerik-Niles Kross, Madis Milling, Üllar Saaremäe, Urmas Espenberg, Urmas Reitelmann, Vilja Toomast, Peeter Ernits, Annely Akkermann, Toomas Kivimägi and Jaak Madison. The commission has disregarded this and the proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure Act. We have examined the amendments. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft No 9 be suspended. This proposal will not be voted on unless requested by a political group. Nobody insists. So the second reading is canceled. The deadline for amendments is 5 March at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U68	We will discuss the next item: this is the second reading of the Land Reform Act initiated by the Committee on Rural Affairs, the Land Acquisition Act issued in the course of the land reform and the draft law amending the State Property Act 87. The rapporteur is Tarmo Tamm, Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I report on how the procedure took place between the first reading and the second reading in the lead committee. The draft law amending the Land Reform Act and the Land Acquisition Act was initiated by the Rural Commission on 7 October 2019. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on October 21, 2019 and the first reading was closed. The original purpose of the draft law amending the Land Reform Act and the Land Acquisition Act was to enable the self-employed holder to grant land covered by the land ownership agreement to himself, the spouse or the relative, where appropriate, to the agricultural production company if the person himself, his spouse or his family holds more than half of the company's share capital or the total number of voting rights. The Government of the Republic supported the draft initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee with comments. On 13 February this year, the Rural Affairs Committee received a letter from the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for the Environment, and submitted to the Commission proposals to amend the draft for consideration in order to lay down the regulation for the renewal of service contracts. According to § 341 (2) of the Land Reform Act, the owner of the usufruct has the right to apply for an extension of the usufruct contract for a further 15 years, but there is no specific regulation under which conditions the contracts are renewed. Therefore, in accordance with current law, the renewal of contracts should be based on the provisions of the Land Reform Act, which, however, do not comply with the general principles of governance of state assets and the principles of European Union competition law. The biggest difference between the conditions for granting use of agricultural land under the Land Reform and the State Assets Act is the rate of the user charge. Paragraph 341 (4) of the current Land Reform Act provides for 2% of the tax price of the land, but not less than EUR 6 and 35 cents, for the annual payment of the usufruct for the first time. In addition, the current law provides for the payment of land tax only in the first five years by the person in whose favour the use has been granted. The payment of the occupation fee shall begin five years after the entry of the occupation in the land register. The land users pay a market-based user fee for the use of agricultural land under the State Assets Act, which is an auction and is on average 3 to 5% of the total market value of the cadastral unit. The large difference in the charges for the use of state-owned agricultural land has led to a situation where the State does not apply the conditions for the use of state assets in a uniform manner to all persons, including farmers. It is justified and necessary to align the situation resulting from the renewal of use management contracts with other similar contracts and conditions and to set market-based user charges as the remuneration for the use management. It is necessary to ensure equal treatment of persons, the economic interests of the State and the promotion of fair competition and to prevent State aid from being granted against the rules in force in the European Union. Land users will continue to have the right to continue to use land that has been used so far, but they will be able to pay for its use on a uniform basis with other farmers. The holder also retains the right to buy the land from the State at market price. Now for the amendments. No proposals were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by the deadline of 4 November 2019 at 17.15. Amendments were submitted to the lead committee for consideration by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The commission decided to draft five amendments on the basis of a letter from two ministers. The maximum amendment provides for the application of the provisions of the State Property Act when the contracts are renewed. The Commission decided by consensus on the amendments, supporting all the proposed amendments. For the sake of readability, more detailed explanations of the amendments have been left on the list of each amendment. The procedural decisions of the commission were as follows: The commission adopted a decision to send the Land Reform Act initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee, a draft law amending the Land Acquisition Act and the State Assets Act issued during the land reform to 87 Riigikogu for a second reading by 27 February 2020 with a proposal to interrupt the second reading and set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. of March 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U70	Thank you very much, dear waitress. Peter Ernitsa has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U71	Good manager! Good waitress! The essence of this case is that the holder can transfer these rights to his or her waffle or to a company controlled by his or her waffle. And I'm going to ask you this. The Commission initiated this draft. Who really was behind it, and how many people were really behind it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U72	This was initiated by a letter from the Chancellor of Justice, since not all market participants have been treated equally. The forms of enterprise should be equal, so you are the owner of a self-employed person or shares in a company or a shareholder. These conditions must be treated equally. Time has done its job. Until now, it has only been possible for a self-employed holder to apply for it. But there's a lot of usage contracts. To put it briefly, the main problem is that, in the meantime, if there were very favourable terms of use, without going against State aid rules, it should be dealt with in the future under the State Assets Act and that is to say, the amount of the remuneration resulting from the market price.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U73	Thank you. Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U74	Good manager! Good waitress! Continuing from there: yes, such inequality has been so far and you said that the purpose of the draft was to respond to a letter from the Chancellor of Justice. We have already passed the first reading, but recently, on 13 February, two ministers came along and confused this picture a little bit, so I guess this reading needs to be stopped right now. But as a result of this unfair treatment, how much have those users or their relatives won in money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U75	It's hard to say how much specifically someone has won. But the problem was that the first usufruct contracts, which were for 15 years, were over and a few dozen new owners of the current usufruct agreement wanted to renew the contract. If the law is not amended, they will be able to extend the usufruct in accordance with the land reform law that has been in force so far. However, if extended, these persons must be aware that they will receive unjustified State aid because they will not conclude this agreement on a market-based basis and also because of the solution that was made on the issue of the countries of Tartu Agro, the European Commission can ask for this money back. They have to take that into account. And now we're trying to change that law on a proposal from the ministries. If I remember correctly, the representative of the Land Office, Triinu Rennu, has said that it is estimated that there may be a difference of around EUR 7 million between these contracts, which the State will receive less than if these contracts had been concluded on the basis of market prices.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-27_U76	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. It is possible to open negotiations if there is a wish for negotiations. I don't see the wish for negotiations. I shall conclude the negotiations and review the amendments. There are three amendments. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs, has been fully taken into account. The second amendment has also been taken fully into account by the Committee on Rural Affairs. The third amendment is also from the Committee on Rural Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. However, there are more than three proposals, I was wrong at first. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Rural Affairs and has also been fully taken into account by the lead committee. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Rural Affairs, and the lead committee has taken full account of it. No one called for a vote on these proposals. The commission has proposed to suspend the second reading of the draft 87 and this proposal shall not be voted on unless a political group requests its vote. There does not seem to be any wish from any political group. Second reading aborted. The deadline for tabling amendments is 5 March at 5.15 p.m. Thank you very much, everyone. Our trial today is over. Closure of the sitting at 11.40 a.m.
