ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-23_U1	Good morning, honourable members of the Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 2nd working week on Thursday. On behalf of the board, I am prepared to accept inquiries and draft laws. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-23_U2	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. 14 Members of the Reform Party Group will submit an inquiry to the Minister for Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Yesterday's Estonian Ekspress wrote how two dedicated and recognized teachers of Tallinn Real School did not receive a master teacher's invitation, as they allegedly behaved unworthyly, not according to the teacher, in the debate on the final exams of the primary school. As the Minister also participated in this debate, we will look to the Minister to see how he felt about whether the teachers behaved unworthyly and if they acted, whether Madis Somelar and Martin Saar had applied for the invitation of the master teacher among these teachers. In addition, we will look at whether the teacher's contribution to education or how a couple of people subjectively evaluate a particular situation should be taken into account when giving a master teacher's profession, as well as how the expert of the Ministry of Education and Research, who is also a member of the professional committee, voted in this situation and why he chose to vote either in favour or against the invitation. We expect the Minister to provide as far-reaching answers as possible as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-23_U3	Thank you. The bill goes into procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, and I have adopted it. Now the messages. After the end of today's plenary session, the following start-up meetings will take place in this Chamber: firstly, the Estonian-Croatia parliamentary group, the convener is Anneli Ott; secondly, the support group for parents and persons raising children alone, the convener is Siret Kotka. Now, presence control, please! 83 members of the Riigikogu are present, 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-23_U4	We can start a review of the agenda. On the agenda, we have one question today: the draft law amending the arms law, the state tax law and the strategic goods law (transposition of the Firearms Directive) initiated by the Government of the Republic 62. The third reading of this draft is on the agenda. It is possible to open negotiations at third reading where representatives of the political groups can participate on behalf of the political groups. There are no applications, so the negotiations are over. We are immediately going to the final vote on the draft, which has been proposed by the lead committee. I shall put to the vote... Just in case, let's get some more. [[It's a saalikutsung.]] Okay. Honourable colleagues, call time is up. I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the arms law, the state fee law and the strategic goods law (transposition of the Firearms Directive) initiated by the Government of the Republic (62 SE). Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law. Dear friends, our hearing today is over. Closure of the sitting at 10.07 a.m.
