ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. As usual, first of all there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu has been working hard for some time to ensure that our work is carried out even if we cannot, for some reason, meet in this Chamber. As a result, we have prepared a draft law amending the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, which gives the Board of the Riigikogu the opportunity, if there are compelling reasons, to convene a sitting of the Riigikogu with a remote participation. There are some very simple principles in this session of the Riigikogu. Firstly, it can take place in the same way as the extraordinary session or additional sitting is currently taking place, i.e. at least 51 members must be present at all times. Secondly, the votes take place quite the same way as they do now, using this remote control, which we have here as a daily tool. And thirdly, if, for technical reasons, it is not possible to conduct a sitting with a remote participation, the Board of the Riigikogu will not conduct this session. But we will, of course, discuss it more precisely and more closely when the draft comes to first reading. I hope that the Board of the Riigikogu can still appoint the Committee on Constitutional Affairs today so that we can discuss it tomorrow in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and discuss it further next week at first reading. I do not know if this is the very first time in history, but in any case it is the agreement with the Chancellery of the Riigikogu that we will not deliver the draft on paper. This draft has been sent electronically to the information system of the Riigikogu's draft procedure and has therefore been awarded to the Riigikogu proceedings. Good luck to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U3	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U4	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and the Ordering of Arts Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the State Border Law. The Government of the Republic is represented by Mart Helme, the Minister of the Interior, when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. And thirdly, the draft law amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act and the Construction Code. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Education and Research Mailis Reps when the bill is being processed. All drafts have been transmitted electronically through the draft information system to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts and the Management Board will discuss their further processing in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Now I have a message. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be the formation of a tourism support group in this Chamber, convened by Annely Akkermann. I now vote on the Riigikogu... Oh, I'm sorry! One important thing would have been almost forgotten about the elevated presence control. There are 80 members of the Riigikogu and no 21. We'll fix the agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 11th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 79 members of the Riigikogu and one against, no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U6	I propose that the agenda of this working week be amended so that our sittings are held on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, where there is a single Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U7	Thank you. I propose that the working time schedule be changed so that plenary sessions take place on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday and on Wednesday. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of changing the timetable of the 11th working week of the III plenary session of the Riigikogu, and there are no votes against or abstentions. The working schedule has been changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U8	Now we come to today's agenda. The first is the second reading of the 168th draft resolution of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic on the introduction of the 'Stabilisation Reserve'. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, here, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U9	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, on 9 April. The content of the draft is that the Government of the Republic is proposing to the Riigikogu that the resources of the Stabilisation Reserve be used to the full. The Decision will allow the gradual mobilisation of resources in the Stabilisation Reserve during 2020 and 2021, as appropriate. The deadline for submitting amendments was 7 April at 5.15 p.m. One amendment was received and presented by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Committee on Finance took this amendment into account in substance and drafted one amendment which included linguistic and technical amendments to the draft. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the second reading, including by 13 April, to terminate the second reading of the draft and to conclude the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U10	Thank you. It is now possible for everyone to ask the rapporteur two oral questions, the length of which is one minute. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Before we begin to distribute the stabilisation reserve here, we could also discuss a little bit about the overall financial situation of the country at this moment, before making this big decision. In particular, the State's current assets are located in the liquidity reserve and according to the Ministry of Finance, as of 8 April, the liquidity reserve remained at EUR 790 million. But we know that over the last two or three weeks, 700 million fresh loans have been placed in the liquidity reserve. Therefore, without the loan money, the liquidity reserve would have a residual amount of less than EUR 100 million. I ask that since the money of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund is also kept in the liquidity reserve, where are the huge reserves of the unemployment fund? There aren't a lot of them in place for today. I would remind you that the unemployment fund's reserves should be EUR 900 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U12	Well, a little less, about 800. But yes, as Märten Ross replied to you at the meeting of the Commission, the liquidity reserve was around EUR 630 million on 8 April, EUR 200 million on a short-term loan and EUR 500 million on a Nordic Investment Bank loan. To answer your question, you should certainly have asked that question in the Commission. Unfortunately, you didn't do that in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U13	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U14	Thank you. Well, that was a bad answer, of course. I believe that in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, a member of the committee may also ask questions that he did not ask at the committee meeting, and the rapporteur could also answer them. But I have a slightly broader question about the stabilisation reserve. The stabilisation reserve is generally intended to stabilise cash flows, looking at the country's cash flows, the different reserves and their situation and the general situation of the money market. The situation on the money market could continue to be more or less such that the State could obtain loans to cover current expenditure, if necessary, if there are liquidity problems. Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs also discuss options as an alternative to clearing out the stabilisation reserve? The stabilisation reserve can always be taken, for example, to repay the loan, if necessary. Were the alternatives discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U15	Thank you for a good question. To comment on the first part, I say to you that, at second reading, the representative of the Commission is talking about what happened between the first and second reading in the Commission, rather than being able to give his personal opinion. If he does, he'll say it as his own personal opinion. However, as far as the other side is concerned, it was discussed in the Commission, yes, and that is why the draft amendment proposed that we first try to introduce loans. And if, for any good reason, there is a need to use the stabilisation reserve, it will be used. However, the stabilisation reserve will not be used in the first order.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U16	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U17	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! However, I will come back to my first question. I come to help you answer and ask you this question: do I understand correctly that there is not much really left of the huge reserves of the unemployment fund today? It only exists on paper, it is the responsibility of the central government to the unemployment fund. And in order for the Treasury to be able to pay out the reserves of the unemployment fund, the sickness fund and other depositors, part of the loans that are being taken today will also be needed to stabilise the current budget for the year and to cover the costs of the additional budget to be considered as the next item.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U18	Thank you for a good question. The honest answer is I don't know how to answer all your questions because I haven't seen the accounting budget or the accounting balance sheet, what's in the country's balance sheet today. On the other hand, it is very clear that these reserves have been used in the past and will certainly continue to be used to cover current expenditure, but this will take into account the fact that these funds are available in the budget if necessary. In the next debate on the additional budget, we will see that we have increased the debt burden. Before I told you that the government today had borrowed loans from the Nordic Investment Bank and short-term loans to cover these costs if necessary. Today, as we see in the supplementary budget, we have authorised the unemployment fund to allocate up to EUR 270 million. Today there are 250 million in action, but if we look at this draft, there are opportunities to increase it to 270 million in total. Of course, this money isn't in different drawers, so here's the health fund drawer and here's the unemployment fund drawer, and here's the rest of the country's budget drawer. This money's in one drawer and it's being moved from one side to the next.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U19	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U20	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I very much believe that the use of the stabilisation reserve should take place in the last order when all other options have been exhausted. You also mentioned this in your reply. However, when I read the decision of the Riigikogu, such a black white position and preference is not included in this decision. So how are we doing with this? Is it used in the last order and where should this confirmation come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U21	Thank you, Andres, for a good question. As you have read, we have made this decision in consensus within the Commission, as it stands. And as you know as a banking person, at some point it may not be useful to take money from this drawer, but it makes sense to take it from another drawer. And that is why, in the case of the stabilisation reserve, there is also the possibility that, if there is no point in taking a new loan, because there is still, I don't know, 100 million left, but there is a need of 200 million, then at that point it makes sense to take this money from the stabilisation reserve and to borrow more when the need arises. At that point, you might feel like 100 million loan money would not be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U22	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Money has three basic functions in a classic way: the first is being a unit of account, the second is acting as a means of payment, and the third is stabilisation, or accumulation, for poorer times. The liquidity reserve is linked to the provision of one function and the stabilisation reserve is linked to the provision of another function. With this bill, which you have brought to the hall, the gap between the two functions will disappear. You're basically taking the stabilisation reserve and throwing it at the hop! without any further consideration of the liquidity reserve. You're saying that in the last trouble or last resort, but in this case, please define "last chance," and you're talking about a valid reason for defining a "influential cause." How can these expressions be understood that a member of the Riigikogu who has to vote in the Chamber today could do so with conviction that he understands the matter unambiguously?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U24	Thank you, Annely! You're always very good at arguing your questions and asking questions. Thanks for that. I really do not have a definition from the Commission here and there is no agreement within the Commission on what this definition should be. The principle is, as I explained to Mr Andres, that, above all, we use loans to solve the liquidity problem. However, if, at one point, there is a situation that the use of the loan is not possible or useful for any reason, the stabilisation reserve shall be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U25	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U26	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I am not a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which is why I am asking over, because some things are incomprehensible to me. However, the stabilisation reserve is the last national financial reserve or savings, and it is no wonder that the state or the legislator has taken control of it. Now that we are looking at the two crises that we are dealing with, the health crisis and the economic crisis that we have to deal with even later, and we are also looking at the wider picture that the entire European Union has made its budget rules very flexible to deal with this health crisis, but we also have to deal with the economic crisis afterwards, please explain why we must now give the government a 'blank bill' or an empty paper to take money from it if we may actually need it later? We are in a situation where the government has all the other sources of finance to take nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U27	Thank you, George, for a good question. I'll start over. At the moment the loan was taken, 200 million short-term loans were issued. The bill received 206 million dollars. It's a very useful loan. We don't know in a month or two what the loan terms really are. Today we hope that they will not be harsh, but if we look at the time of ten years ago, at some point the terms of the loan were different than a few months earlier. That is why today, too, will be left with the possibility of mobilising funds from the stabilisation reserve. If, at one point, we may not get the loan as quickly as we need, or do not get it on such good terms, and there is more to trade or debate, then it will be possible to use the resources of the stabilisation reserve in the meantime. And it's always possible to put the money back in there. No one's gonna tell you not to put any more money in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U28	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U29	Thank you. I'm gonna pick up a little bit where you stopped answering me and Andres, so the stability reserve should be the last straw, and it's going to be put into use at the last minute. Maybe you can give us an overview of how many reserves the country has at the moment and how much of them are liquid, i.e. immediately for use, not anywhere virtually or on paper. And knowing that the state is not financially in such a bad position that the introduction of the stabilisation reserve is a matter of a day, maybe it would be wise not to make a decision on the stabilisation reserve today. I believe that Parliament will be so flexible that, if necessary, it will give the government an exceptional right to adopt the Stabilisation Reserve in a week or two. However, give us an overview of the state of our reserves at the moment, so that the members of the Riigikogu will know whether it is time to decide whether the last day is in order to introduce the stability reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U30	Thank you for a good question. I can't tell you how much tax is on the bill today. I can tell you that 200 million short-term loans have been taken from loans today and 500 million from the Nordic Investment Bank. In addition, there are 630 million in the liquidity reserve, but I must say that this is a situation of 8 April that had not been introduced at the time, plus the money received from taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U31	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U32	Thank you. Looking at the forecasts from the Ministry of Finance, they show that we will have more than a billion fewer tax revenues this year alone. More specifically, this forecast amount is around 1.4 billion. This automatically means that the budgets for 2021, 2022 and 2023 are going to a large deficit compared to the RES. In this context, is it not inappropriate already in April 2020 to introduce this most recent straw, the stabilisation reserve? I am not denying at all the possibility that this may be needed during this crisis, but is this really the right moment in time for April 2020 or should something be left for when the budget for next year is out of balance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U33	Thank you. That's a good and right question. I say once again that all these decisions had been taken by consensus during the Commission's debate, and we made it very clear that this reserve must be used when all other resources have been used up and there is a need. Whether it is decided to do this today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, it is always a technical issue. If anyone asks me if this money is physically needed today, it will certainly not be necessary physically in the state budget today. Whether it is needed in a month or two, this is shown by the length of the crisis. And as Jüri said, there are actually two crises. One is social and health care, and the other is the economic crisis, which has actually been going on for a month. If we look at the tax receipts, the first two months have already been in deficit, not with a very high percentage, but in March and April we will certainly see it much more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U34	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, If we have discussed the state budget here, including the last state budget, I do not recall such a thing that when talking about the reserves of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund that the state has used from time to time to manage its cash flows, somebody would once have said such a thing to that end that we have to borrow a loan in order to bring them back in volume when we have the right moment to use. Today must have come this moment. Today I hear from you that if we need to, we'll put the stabilisation reserve back. I think that if we were not able to reduce the minus in good times, but rather to increase it, then what is the optimism on which is built is that in the next two to three years we will be able to put something back. We have the impression here in the Riigikogu that everything we take away has gone on like a goose.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U36	Thank you, Urmas, for the question. Well, to say the least, you see, at this point, it's interesting to But, of course, all the loans that will be taken will have to be repaid at some point. And to think about not opening up all the possibilities today, if there is a crisis situation, maybe it would be the wrong decision. There are always different opinions. On the one hand, they say you live like this, you take out one pocket and you leave the money in the other. The other way is, you take a little bit out of both pockets and you keep something in both pockets. In today's crisis, where the global economic crisis has been going on for almost over a month, we are still beginning to feel these effects and fruits. On 10 April, the first payments were made and on 20 April, the date of payment of VAT. Only now will we see what really is. March was half a month, and on March 12, a state of emergency was announced. April is a whole time when very many economic sectors are actually standing, people are at home and businesses are closed. And at that time, leave something unused just in case? We are opening up, if necessary, the stabilisation reserve, not the commitment. These are two very different approaches. I, as an entrepreneur, say that, just in case, all the irons have to be on fire. You never know at what point the need arises. But I certainly agree with all the questioners that the use of the stabilisation reserve is the last place to use until all other options have been tried. If there is no other option, then it may have to be used and taken from it at some point. But it's an opportunity, today we're giving it a chance. If at some point there is such a situation that the stabilisation reserve must be used, then there must be an opportunity right now, rather than waiting for us to do two readings in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U37	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I was inspired by the questions asked by Aivar Sõerdi and Hanno Pevkur and especially by the answers you gave them. For the sake of protocol, I want to ask you whether I understand correctly that you really have no idea how many reserves the Estonian state currently has, and in particular you have little idea of how many reserves we still have at the unemployment fund or the health insurance fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U39	There's a little over 800 million in the unemployment fund reserve right now. The number of the sickness fund's reserve depends on the number you want to receive: what is in the state budget or the whole reserve? It's under 900 million. I told you the stabilisation reserve number, it was 630 million as of April 8. I just said I really didn't know the status of April 10th when the payment deadline expired. I don't have the IRS' latest records of how much tax was received at that point, because they usually arrive on the 8th, 9th and 10th dates.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U40	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U41	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! You were talking about keeping money in different pockets here in the meantime. My understanding is that money for different purposes is kept in different pockets. If I now come back to the question I have asked and the answer I have received, I think that what you spoke about in relation to where to put the money and where to take the money is rather a liquidity reserve. The stability reserve should be the rear place where savings are held, the use of which is authorised by the Riigikogu when there are real reasons. And now I am asking whether you, the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu, consider the financial situation of the state to be so bad that we must give the government permission to go on the stabilisation reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U42	Thank you. When we start with this beautiful pocket story, I'll give you this example: if you have money in two pockets and one pocket, I don't know, the cost of buying a suit and the other one has food money, and if the family still wants to eat, you take the jacket money out of your pocket and you buy the food, i.e. you use the money in the other pocket, if necessary. But if you ask me if the state is so poor that we should start using the stabilisation reserve today, I'll say that today's situation is certainly not that bad. The budget of the Republic of Estonia is one of the best budgets in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U43	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I still understand that you have a stabilization function and a liquidity function completely messed up. That's the money for stabilisation. I will try to stress how serious this decision is that has been put on our desk today as if it were to be done in passing. The volume of public budget expenditure is around 12 billion. There are about 400 million in the Stabilisation Reserve, i.e. half a month of stabilisation money. If we pay this 414 million out of the stabilisation reserve, it is indeed pension money and perhaps the salaries of policemen, defence forces and public employees. If it gets paid out, that's it! This money is so small compared to state budget expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U45	Thank you, Annely! If, as the entrepreneur you're in, you asked that question, I'd pick on you a little bit. But if you ask as a politician, it's a natural question. That's the kind of question you have to ask when you're in opposition. Once again, we are talking about giving an opportunity, not an obligation. These are two very different things, and in a crisis situation, all opportunities must exist. We do not know about tomorrow or the day after tomorrow what the financial market situation will be, and today this bill has been brought into this hall simply so that the government can make an operational decision if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U46	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I'm not a finance man at all, and I don't understand everything very well, but I'm just asking to understand. Please explain! In fact, I have been taught that it is always necessary to leave such a last reserve, just in case, because it could get worse. In fact, none of us now know what awaits us in six months. And as I understand it, you can disprove it, it is now very beneficial to get the loan money. Is it really best to go right now and open the reserve that should be kept in the back pocket? Is this the right thing to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U48	Thank you. I'm starting from the end: this is one way to do it when you need to. Today we have really good credit terms, but we do not know what they are at the end of April or May. We really don't know. I'll give you an example: when you were doing sports and getting sponsored money, you knew that money was coming tomorrow, but it wasn't quite certain, and you still took advantage of those opportunities today and continued your workout, didn't miss your workout. It is the same that today we are giving ourselves the opportunity to use the money from the stabilisation reserve instead of taking on this commitment. This is one way in which the world's financial market should, for some reason, be subject to some kind of volatility and, for some reason, it is not possible to obtain a loan quickly or anything else. To date, the state has received all loans in a very favourable way. However, how the negotiations on the next loan are going and what the result is, we do not know today. If we get a loan on the same favourable terms, I think there is no need to use the stabilisation reserve. But there may be a risk that at some point you will need to make a transfer of funds tomorrow, and you will not have the money. Then you can use it from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U49	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U50	Good manager! Good waitress! Estonia's loan burden is the lowest in Europe. And even though we've taken out a loan now, it's still the smallest. So, actually, the odds are really good. But I ask you this: if you were the chairman of the Finance Committee of the Italian Parliament and a good colleague, Annely, would be an ambassador to Lombardy, for example, not an ambassador to Kihnu, and would ask the same question about the last possibility, what would your answer be to Mr Akkermann, who represents Lombardy? Last chance in the Italian context today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U51	Peter, you should be a little more specific about this question, it can be answered in two ways. You left the ends a little open. On the one hand, in Italy, if you look at what decisions they have made, they have taken up loans, even though their loan burden is probably 160% of GDP today. And if you calculate with the American model that I like to calculate the so-called declines and everything else in times of crisis, it could end up at 500%. Let's just say, in an Italian situation, I don't think any vigilante would want to be here. I don't think Annely would even ask that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U52	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This example of jacket and food may also be handled differently, so that you do not buy the jacket and sometimes you have to save by the side of your stomach. But what surprises me is that the Minister of Finance in this very hall told us at first reading that we may not really need a stabilisation reserve until next year. I don't know about your experience with the local government, but you've done a lot in front of the council. In general, local councils would send you out of the door as a parish elder or mayor and say, "Come back at the end of next year or at the beginning of the year, you don't just give out fights." They're trying to do it loose and easy around here. But the other part of my question is actually about why the government still needs to get that permission so long. If you also consider the credit facilities to be very good in the short term, then you should focus only and only on taking the most of the cheap loans that are paid to each euro, and only then come before the Riigikogu and offer it only after all the other straws have gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U54	Thank you, Urmas! We have different experiences, I'm a lot easier. You've always been the mayor, I've been the chairman of the council. There are different approaches. I'm sure where you were in charge was on your word, but where I was in charge, council decisions were made. But speaking as an entrepreneur and also as the head of the municipality, if I still have the opportunity to use any reserves at some point in order not to aggravate the crisis situation, I would certainly try to negotiate with the council the possibility of using these reserves. We are always talking about whether it makes sense to make this decision today or to make it in two months' time. I understand that's what this is about in the hall right now. But what will change if this decision is made in two weeks' time or in two months' time, exactly the same decision? What will change as a result of this decision? After all, today it has been very clear and described in the draft that, first of all, not the stabilisation reserve, but all other instruments, in particular the loan money, will be used, and, if there is some special situation and there is a need for resources, we will go to the stabilisation reserve. There was also a question of cost. The day before the additional budget was transferred to the Riigikogu, it was recorded in the decision of the Government of the Republic that during the second quarter all crisis measures and austerity measures must be discussed in the Government of the Republic so that before reaching the budget for 2021 it is known where and what needs to be saved in order to survive the following years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U55	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Your answer to my question encouraged me to say what I mean. Why should a stabilisation fund be authorised now if the trouble is not yet here? We'd wait for the trouble, and then we'd cut it off. You'd have to train a lot, gymnastics to do it first. I say the big problem is that we can face a very difficult time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U57	Thank you. I've skied too, but much worse than you, so it's hard to argue with you in that sense. But as an entrepreneur, we are accustomed to actually making decisions when a situation arises. And then we have to make quick decisions. However, there must be prior decisions for rapid decisions. If the previous decisions have not been taken, it is often not possible to make the right decision, and it must be put into practice by making another decision. That is why this issue is now on the table to give an opportunity to the.. if there is a need, rather than an obligation to use the stabilisation reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U58	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U59	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm not gonna ask what comes after the last chance. However, I ask that I have heard that this decision was consensual in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. What steps did you take to ensure that our ladies and gentlemen from the Reform Party were consensually in agreement with the decision? Right now, they're talking about last resort, abuse of straw.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U60	Thank you, Peter! I must boldly say in this chair that I appreciate all the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, including representatives of the Reform Party. They're always constructive, always paying attention to the right things. And sometimes when the Commission misses something, it is done in the big hall. It is very clear in this Chamber that the opposition must do its job and the coalition must do its job. There is nothing disparaging or evil about it, and the truth is both here and there. On the one hand, it really does not matter whether we are taking this decision today or tomorrow, but I see no reason why we should adopt it tomorrow when we have the opportunity to do so today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U61	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U62	Thank you. I don't think it matters who skis better here or who's a better entrepreneur, but we should be good at finance when we do this job. And this work is not necessarily the way that the opposition owns and the coalition owns. The same proposal that the Stabilisation Reserve should be introduced in the last order was, as I understand it, the text that we agreed on. At the video conference, something must have been missed, and what happened was that the text actually ended up with an explanatory statement. I think I got it right. I got it right today. But what is the guarantee that this is exactly what is being done, that the stabilisation reserve will be left to last and that cheap lending opportunities will be used before?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U63	Thank you, Jurgen! I think today we have a parliamentary state and parliamentary control. And here, at first reading, the Minister of Finance has said these words. We discussed this on Thursday through the TV bridge in our committee, where Regina Vällik was from the Ministry of Finance, and we delivered our message very clearly and clearly. And since we have unanimously supported this decision, all members of the Riigikogu, I think that if we go against this decision, we will also go against Parliament!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U64	Thank you. One more question came up. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U65	Thank you, waitress. However, listening to all your answers, I have yet another question and that is not a good question, as you often say to colleagues here. Please project this situation when the same stabilisation reserve is put into effect. What happened that day?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U66	May I ask you again, Urve? To be honest, I was looking for you where you used to be behind my back...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U67	A microphone for the Urve Tit, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U68	...and the search somehow got the question between the two ears. I'm sorry! Here you go, Urve, ask me again!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U69	Thank you for this opportunity. Let me ask you this: please project this situation when the stabilisation reserve goes into operation. Project this day's situation!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U70	What situation could it be used in? Well, one simple example is that somewhere, for example, credit is needed. There are currently 50 million remaining, but 100 million needs to be used, while the new loan has not yet been finalised. I understand that if this decision needs to be made quickly, it makes sense to use the reserve. But for the rest of the reasons, today we are giving the government with an additional budget the opportunity to borrow, and as long as the terms of the loan are as good as today, it makes sense to take out the loan first and, in the last order, go to reserves.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U71	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U72	Thank you. Dear waitress, I was wondering here why, after all, the amendment proposed by the Reform Party was to include in the draft the clarification 'if all other funding options have been used' and the sentence 'The stabilisation reserve is entitled to be used from 1 October to 31 December 2020'. To be honest, some people in the Reform Party believed that it had been written into the bill, and this morning we really had a discussion when it turned out that it was in the explanatory memorandum, but the explanatory memorandum is not a law! You're saying yes, yes, there's parliamentary control here. In fact, exactly what we are handing over right now, parliamentary control is what we are giving up, because we are giving the government the right to use the stabilisation reserve as we see fit. Why couldn't these restrictions stay in place, and what caused the misunderstanding that some people believed they were in the bill? Hence the debate here, about which Ernits asked before, why the Reform Party is now asking and why it seems that they are not entirely in favour of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U73	I don't know which end I'm gonna start. First of all, I do not know who is so smart that the reserve can only be used from 1 October to the end of the year, October, November, December, the last three months of this year, that only then will the stabilisation reserve be needed. I don't know why you need to use it. Maybe you don't need to use it at all, maybe you need it two months earlier or two months later. To limit it to a three-month cycle, I think we did not have such a serious debate in the Commission. But the second was what I also gave you an example of: if we are writing so specific a clause in the draft, there is a situation that, if you already have a small loan, you must definitely take advantage of it and also take on a new loan, because the budget provides for us to have a credit facility, and at the moment when we need to use the stabilisation reserve quickly, we cannot do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U74	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U75	Thank you. I will come back to the subject of this consensus, because it is true that it was a consensual decision. If I read the decision that we have on this table today and read the explanatory memorandum to this decision, then in fact neither black or white has a reference that the stabilisation reserve will be used only in the final order.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U76	Thank you, Andres! I admit I haven't written that decision. The way we talked, the Ministry of Finance and the Commission officials wrote it down.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U77	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U78	Thank you. Dear waitress, You know where we've come from. We had an agreement that it was at least in the explanatory memorandum, and it wasn't in the explanatory memorandum. You sign the papers and you send them to the hall. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U79	We should now do the text of the protocol and read it from the line we decided and how we decided. I, Maris, have to apologize, because I don't remember telling you there's something going on in the explanatory statement. We described this draft decision, I remember that. But the message was clearly in the Commission that, when we use the reserve, we expect it to be used in the last order.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U80	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U81	Thank you. If this was the agreement that the stabilisation reserve will be used in the last order and we have a proposal like this right now, why don't you re-rank your coalition and vote for it? After all, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we did not hear any other voice from your coalition partners than only 'for' and 'against', 'against' and 'against'. Nobody was discussing anything. It's normal. Now why don't you blow the whistle and let's all vote for it together? There is a political agreement, but not forgetting, and no one noticed that it was not formalised. Even the chairman of the committee didn't notice. For and against, for and against. Let's vote it in!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U82	Jurgen! The protocol or decision is signed on Thursday, I think, between 3:00 and 4:00. If someone says he's reading something now and now he realizes something's different, then he could have said it on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. I'm looking at the protocol right now, and that's exactly what it says. But your proposal is a good suggestion. All members of the Riigikogu are free to vote, have always been free. Members of the Riigikogu have always been free in their decisions. Isn't that right? Jürgen, I understand you're not always there, but maybe... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U83	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U84	Thank you. Good waitress, Aivar! You know that there is a law first, then in some cases the explanatory statement is reviewed and the minutes are very, very last-ordered. Usually when the case reaches the Supreme Court. And even then, they may not be counted. Even the texts in the explanatory memorandum have not been taken into account. You understand the dilemma that has now arisen and the situation. Can you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U85	Thank you. We also expressed this in the debate in the Commission that it is not possible simply to leave the words 'in the last order'. At certain moments, these funds need to be used as a penultimate option or as a preliminary option. That's just the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U86	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. I will open the negotiations and, as usual, the speech on the floor for 5 + 3 minutes and the speech on the table for 2 minutes. But it seems that there is no wish for negotiation. Then we will go to the examination of the amendments. Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Propose by the lead committee: take full account. Did Aivar Sõerdi want to negotiate? Then we'll go back on the agenda and we'll negotiate. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, I was late to push the button, because I know that the representatives of the political groups are just the first to appear. I am not the representative of the group here right now, but I do want to say a few things about this decision. First of all, it is regrettable, of course, that the final text of the draft text and the explanatory memorandum did not receive the principle that the Stabilisation Reserve is the last place to take money when all other options have been exhausted. I would like to start by saying that, in fact, Estonia is currently in a very good position to take out loans because Estonia is a member of the euro area, and because historically Estonia has had a very low loan burden compared to other countries. But it's too early to make that decision right now. Besides, this stabilisation reserve money is 400 million, it is still quite small, given the current size of the state budget. I would remind you that before the previous crisis, which was a financial crisis, the stabilisation reserve had the same amount, 400 million euros in kroons at the time, but in today's currency 400 million euros, and then only half of it was spent in the financial crisis. Half of it's left. And on this side, what remains is now a little bit longer over the years, and we have reached 400 million, which, looking at today's budget, is relatively small money compared to the years of the previous financial crisis. I would also like to comment a little on the speech just made by the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which I consider to be not professional enough. First of all, my colleague, Mr Pevkur, asked very clearly what is the state's current level of available reserves of the country just how much money the country currently has? It's a very simple question. And indeed, before we decide to use the stabilisation reserve here, it is still necessary to get a precise picture of the state's current financial situation. The reply of the Chairman of the Monetary Commission was not professional. It took the balance of this last liquidity reserve, the exact amount of the balance of the balance of the last liquidity reserve, which, as of 8 April, is actually 790 million and added 700 million loans to it, but the loans are located in the liquidity reserve. The loan money, which has been withdrawn in the last two or three weeks, has been placed in the liquidity reserve. And the liquidity reserve, which is the state's current financial assets, stood at EUR 790 million on 8 April. And 700 million loans have been withdrawn, which means that without loans, the liquidity reserve would be 90 million, or less than EUR 100 million. Here is the question: if we are talking about the unemployment fund's reserves, which is over 800 million, where is the money, when the reserve in which the money is held is less than 100 million? This means that the huge reserve of the unemployment fund exists today only on paper; it is the responsibility of the central government to the unemployment fund. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U88	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U89	It is the responsibility of the central government, or the other way around, the claim of the unemployment fund against the central government, but it does not really exist today. So that could have been explained by the Chairman of the Monetary Commission if he had responded professionally, but he didn't. I would have answered differently instead of Aivar Koka, I would have said that the balance of the liquidity reserve, yes, really fluctuates very significantly over the month. Today, the situation is why this balance is so small there, with no loan money less than 100 million, that is because, if tax deadlines are introduced today, by the way, the deadline for income and social tax, on 20 April, the VAT deadline will start to increase the balance of the reserve. But right now we've reached the point where the surplus in the reserve is moving in every six negative directions, it's decreasing every month because the tax receipts have deteriorated sharply. I could have explained all this. But in conclusion, I would say that I cannot leave this remote control without criticizing the government. In recent years, when the economic years were good, reserves were not collected. On the contrary, the unemployment fund's reserve was largely used for other purposes. And now we are already seeing how this loan money, which has been drawn up before the additional budget that we are going to discuss in the next point, has opened up, even before the economic crisis has arrived, we are already seeing how this easy-come loan money burns like a spring burn. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U90	Thank you. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U91	Ladies and gentlemen, We are in the midst of a crisis and, of course, for such a crisis, this stability reserve is intended. This money can be used, but it should be available at the final stage once all other funds have been used. If the loan that we are currently receiving is used up easily, and if all the other resources we have are being used up, then we will turn to this reserve. This is the amendment we have tabled on this law. My suggestion is that if you agree that there should be a reserve, that everyone has agreed, that this is a long crisis and that money is still needed, then support our amendment and we will get this law in a much better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U92	Looks like there's no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations and go to the amendments. The first has been presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The second has been submitted by the Estonian Reform Party Group, and the proposal of the commission is to take this into account in substance. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U93	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U94	Let's put it to a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, and the proposal of the commission is to take this into account in substance. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was approved by 35 and against 49 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The lead committee has next proposed a final vote of 168 on the draft. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I am voting on the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on the introduction of the 'Stabilisation Reserve', submitted by the Government of the Republic, 168. We are going to hold a final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 58 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. Bill 168 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U95	We will go to today's item No 2, the second reading of the draft law on the additional budget of the State of 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U96	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the Additional Budget Act 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 9 and 13 April. The content of the draft is as follows: according to the additional budget, the nominal government budget deficit will be €2.62 billion this year, with government support measures for the economy, and the impact of the measures on the nominal government budget position will be € 1.15 billion. And the revenue from the state budget will reduce the additional budget by 1.63 billion compared to this year's budget. The additional budget measures have an impact on current state budget expenditure of a total of 513 million, plus the introduction of reserves. By the deadline for submitting amendments, including 8 April at 9 a.m., 14 amendments were received, seven from the Estonian Reform Party Group, four from the Social Democratic Party Group, one from Aivar Sõerd, member of the Riigikogu, and two from Mart Võrguship. The Finance Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry, proposed three amendments, which are in Tables 1, 13 and 14 of the amendments. In essence, the Commission took into account one of the proposals of the Reform Party Group, No 17, and rejected the amendments received from the rest of the political groups and members. As regards the introduction of specific measures and the additional budget, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided that the government would provide the Committee on Monetary Affairs with an overview of the implementation and costs of emergency measures at least once a month, made two corrections in the explanatory memorandum and unanimously adopted the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu, including by 13 April, and to propose that the second reading be closed, to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at Tuesday 14 April at 9 a.m., and to take the third reading of the draft on the agenda by 15 April and then to hold the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U97	Thank you. Now is the time to ask questions. Each member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask two oral questions, the length of which is up to one minute. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! There are certainly many necessary things in the supplementary budget, the necessary measures. However, there are also things that are highly questionable in relation to mitigating the crisis. I will give just one example: the rural capital measure, which was included among the measures of the MES. I asked during the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that this is not the same thing that the Minister for Agriculture wanted to get into the basic budget for 2020. The representative of the Ministry of Finance could not reply, but later the reply was that yes, it is an analogous measure, i.e. the same proposal was made for the basic budget. Am I right to understand that now, just in the shadow of the crisis, there has been a shove of credit money, because it comes easily onto the extra budget, things that did not fit into the basic budget because of the lack of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U99	Thank you. First of all, in response to this, when it comes to the possibility of buying land, such a proposal has already been under discussion in my memory during the previous term, if not during the previous term. Why hasn't there been any resources for this before is a separate question for the MES. The MES calculated that they needed about 200 million to support rural entrepreneurship. Those proposals have also come through the MES. Today it was a surprise for me to read on the news as if the MES Council had already confirmed everything and all the decisions were taken. I reminded them that the decisions of the MES, the decisions of the measures, must finally be confirmed by the government. I do hope, Aivar, that there are no measures here to meet any political promises, but these measures are, in fact, to support the various forms of enterprise and workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U100	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am an unattached Member, but I honestly admit that I have good cooperation with the Group of the Social Democratic Party and have quite a sympathy for their work. I read in these amendments that they have proposed to grant schoolchildren home education allowance of EUR 500 for families with children. My question is this: for what reason did the Commission disregard this proposal? In any case, this seems to me to be the right idea, because it is clear that unemployment is rising in our country, that many people are losing their income, while families have had to switch quickly to home education, which has resulted in additional costs. For what reason was the Commission not in favour of this proposal? This is the fifth amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U102	Yes, the Commission's majority did not really support this amendment. On the one hand, there are various measures today that we support our parents through, for example, the measures of the unemployment fund through their pay. And all the other measures should also work very well. At the same time, the additional budget for local authorities also provides for EUR 30 million, from which it is possible to receive support for such current needs, for example, if you need computers or something else for home learning. Greater municipalities have also launched a delivery service for school meals. There are few who offer this service, and it is often not offered to all schoolchildren, it has been done according to the need. However, these funds have not been reduced in the state budget for any municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U103	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U104	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The question has been raised, which is not directly related to this draft, but it is also about the state's acquisition of holdings of companies, which the Minister of Finance has offered as a crisis measure, and which you have also commented on. I am thinking of one particular company that has expressed its wish for this. When I say "memory," you said something about this company looking in the mirror, his behavior hasn't been pleasant to you. My question is this: has the Committee on Monetary Affairs generally discussed the conditions under which and under what kind of scheme the direct support measures of this type could actually work in the future, so that they do not come from hours like this to one company and the other likes another company, but that the basis is objective criteria and substantive economic logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U105	Thank you. That's a good question! You read the title, but the last sentence in my commentary in this article was that if they change their attitude towards the law, then surely all entrepreneurs must be treated equally. At the very end, about the last two sentences it says. There was a dispute simply as to whether or not the company in question complied with the laws of a particular sector. But there is no measure today. We have a commitment that they will be brought to the Committee on Monetary Affairs before the framework measures are approved by the government. And all measures must also be approved by the government; they are not decisions taken by one minister or by one agency or by a sector; they are, in the end, decisions taken by the government. Certainly, no decision has been made today at any level on what terms or how and whether someone's shares will be bought or loaned. The KredEx measures have been agreed today, but no decisions have been made on this 300 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U106	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. The Reform Party proposed not to suspend the contributions from the second pillar. As we know, making payments to the second pillar became mandatory for those born since 1983, and this is a very, very large part of Estonia's people. Can you tell me what a monetary victory is for the Government of the Republic if you stop these payments? Is this calculation done?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U108	Yeah, that calculation's done. As long as I look for this exact number, I can tell you that all those people who are born in 1960 or earlier and wish to pay their 2% further will not stop making payments to the second pension pillar. Stopping for those born in 1961 and later. As an amendment, all of them are calculated at 4% over the period in which payments are suspended, so that the 2% paid by a person is multiplied by two, plus the average productivity of all pension funds in that period. I can't find the paper right now, but in two years, it's about 300 million. I'm going to be more specific about that. There were exact numbers for both years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U109	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U110	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I am actually very concerned that the government has not yet developed measures to support micro-enterprises, but they need quite strong support already in the current crisis. Another cause for concern is what we discussed in relation to the previous draft that the government is already willing to use the resources of the stabilisation reserve. We had a hearing with the Minister for Finance in the Committee on Economic Affairs, and I asked him this question: when we talk about funds, how much of this extra budget is actually linked to this crisis and how much is not? He answered me. I will now ask you the same question, Mr President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu. How much of the additional budget we are currently discussing is actually linked to the crisis and how many elements or components are not related to the crisis in this additional budget? How will you answer me?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U111	Thank you, George, for a good question. My point is, most of it. Perhaps with some small measures, we can discuss how someone likes it. I, too, have an area in which I think it has been overreacted. There's never been a question about that at this table. We discussed the subject a little bit more in the Commission today. But today there is a slight difference between this additional budget and the following so-called cluster law. One side is the two- or three-month measure, i.e. the sickness fund reimburses the first three sick days, the unemployment fund pays up to 70% of the wage subsidy in two months, and the refinancing of KredEx's loans is carried out or not refinancing, but timing and guaranteeing it. This is the one half that survives the first three months, plus the deferral of loans, which is 6 months and 12 months. The second package is a purely economic package: renovation of apartment buildings 100 million, roads 40 million, of which 30 million goes to municipalities, municipal investment support 70 million, municipal crisis support 30 million, building renovation 5 million. If anyone asks why it says 'demolition of buildings' rather than'repair', then the point is that we simply give work to certain sectors in the construction and road construction sectors during the crisis. If we shut down all sectors of the economy, business sectors, like small shops in supermarkets are closed and beauty salons are closed, then at some point the state would collapse if there were no economic activity. The same practice was actually used by the Republic of Finland during the previous so-called "slide" period, in the early 1990s, when there was an economic crisis. Then they put a lot of money in the construction and road construction sectors. I can tell you that last year the last section of the road to one of the bridges that was built at that time was ready, but the roads were not there. At that time, a very large business sector was simply given work and taxes came so that it was not necessary to pay subsidies or to compensate for any other resources, costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U112	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, My question concerns Amendment 11 of the Socialist Amendment, which contains the content of helping those who have lost their jobs, such as beauty attendants, taxi drivers, all those who worked under the debt treaty and are not qualified for labour market measures today. Or the self-employed, who are legal persons, but most of the Estonian self-employed still work in this form because they have gone today because we have imposed restrictions. They don't have a job, but we don't support these people from the state. These people are in real trouble. My question to you is this: what were these arguments in the Commission, why do you think these people should not be supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U114	Thank you. First of all, we will start by saying that it is not quite the case that the state does not support it. FIEs do not have a social tax obligation in the first quarter of this year. They should have paid on 10 April; this tax has been taken away from them. It's one of the benefits that the self-employed have enjoyed today. For micro-enterprises, measures are still under development, but the EAS has a total of 25 million planned at the moment, 15 million of which are in the direction of the tourism sector and 10 million in the direction of micro-enterprises. I know that the EVEA and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications have worked very hard. Whether 10 million is little or much, it can certainly be argued, and it is likely that 10 million will be few. In some ways, it is also possible to support some sectors through KredEx. But I think the main problem that has actually arisen today is that the forms of employment are so different. I remember the previous composition when we argued in this Chamber how it would be possible for the members of the board to pay 2% of the unemployment contribution. This argument lasted a long time. Today, I think, this crisis shows that it should be possible to find a way for all of us to be self-employed, and today it is also possible to open an entrepreneurial account and offer their services through it on so-called employee forms, so-called employee forms, to pay unemployment insurance. Today's crisis shows very clearly that we are accustomed to one form, a contract of employment, which has been done for years. But there are also many new forms in this century, and they have not been taken into account. With regard to this, we have different budget lines, and at this point we are also considering that there must be certain measures to support small and micro-enterprises through KredEx.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U115	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U116	Thank you. You said that there was nothing political or political in this budget. However, a month ago, we had a very common sense here, which this additional budget should contain, and a very common sense with Eesti Pank also had quick, precise methods to preserve people's incomes and businesses. Now, Eesti Pank has extra--- we also listened to them in the State Budget Control Committee, which criticised the suspension of the second pillar. Extra! They have said that this has absolutely nothing to do with it and that our country will also receive a loan inexpensive terms. In particular, it is a compensation mechanism, which basically means the interest rate on fast loans to the State. I couldn't figure out where that short-term interest rate idea came from. And on the other hand, of course excise duties. Again, Eesti Pank says that this is not an absolutely accurate measure, a huge amount of money goes. If you were to become an expert, how would you justify that these two measures are apolitical and highly competent?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U117	Thank you. Time's long gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U118	Thank you, Jürgen, for the very right and good questions. If you promise, I'll start at the end. Speaking of excise duty and excise duty cuts, I'm gonna be able to stay calm here tonight. All the years I've been sitting in the Riigikogu Hall, I've always yelled when some excise duty is raised and argued against it. I speak purely personally, it has nothing to do with the party, I have been very hard on the subject with my party. I'm just making sure that Siim here is hiding his eyes. We didn't argue about it until a few days ago, but in a good way, we argued. There are different opinions and it is natural for a group to have different opinions. Today, when we look at the excise policy of us and the countries around us, on certain lines we went too high and we are at the forefront. Whether these measures will support the exit from the crisis, we can say that even before this is finished. We can be very clear. We can see how Estonian entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs located in Estonia, came out of the crisis better than some of the neighbouring neighbours. So that's what we can say. Today, I believe in a two-year compromise and we hope that in two years' time, economic growth will be at least over 2% of GDP. Then we'll come back to excise duty again. Speaking of the suspension of the second pension pillar payments, on the one hand, I should say, Jürgen, that you made the same decision in your time. I don't know if it was a good decision or a bad decision, I know that part says good, part says bad. If you look at this decision today, the majority of the Riigikogu has decided that payments from the second pension pillar should be voluntary. The President has challenged this and today it is in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court's decision will certainly come during this year, he is either one or the other, and I cannot say it. But if you ask how the compensation side came into being, then it makes a lot of sense that if the state's payments for which it has been agreed that they would come, and for which it could, like, make money from the fund, will stop the difference later, that difference will be compensated. I don't see anything wrong with that. Of course, if I make sure the loan money is cheaper, I agree with you, Jürgen, that the loan money is cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U119	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U120	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Aivar, please open up some of the substantive reasons why the coalition was not prepared to support an increase of EUR 25 million in the EAS direct aid measure and an increase of EUR 10 million in the direct aid measure for small businesses, that was our amendment. And while we were talking about the second pillar, you may also comment on why payments will not be compensated in 2022, i.e. one year before the elections, but in 2023, which is the year of the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U121	Good question! With regard to this last observation, I acknowledge that no debate on the budget was ever discussed about the elections of the Riigikogu, either from this date or from this time. But a very good point, I'll put it behind me. In any case, I dare say that where I was, this was never mentioned at the meetings I was at. What happened somewhere else, I can't argue with it and I can't comment on it. At this point, yes, such decisions have been made that there are 25 million on the EAS side. Today, it has been calculated that there are certain possibilities to support it through KredEx. It cannot be said that, certainly, but we will most likely come back to these issues, I think, in July, when the Riigikogu comes together again, because those optimists who have written a new forecast from both the Bank of Estonia and the Ministry of Finance are, in my opinion, relatively optimistic. God forbid they're right! I honestly say that I sincerely hope that they are right, but I doubt it. I'm looking at the fact that when April ends and payments come in May, we'll see what the real situation is. And that's where we're going to have to take down the taxes from the unemployment fund, that's the other half. So let's not share much with the helicopter in the first swing. We will look over the months to two, where the need is greatest and where it is likely to be most needed to support the economy in order for it to rise again. I believe that if we do well, the emergency situation will be over by mid-May or by June at the latest. At least you gotta give up somewhere. I have to admit, I don't really understand why shopping malls should be locked up like this today, because when I met two people last week before they were shut down in South Central. I went shopping for food for my cat and dog, fearing that shops would be closed and then I couldn't eat for pets. These shops were not carried out on a massive basis and can always be restricted. Today there are long queues in the shops. On the weekend, I wanted to take the crap away, but it wasn't possible because the line was so long. One by one, they let them put the leaves away. I drove the bags back.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U122	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U123	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, Today, the Association of Eesti Pank gave a presentation to the Economic Commission. The members of the Banking Association see the cash flow of companies best, the fastest and the most accurate, and they say that the turnover of travel, catering, accommodation and transport companies has sank substantially to zero. At the same time, the Association of Estonian Hotels and Restaurants announced that their members had paid 160 million taxes last year. Such a huge fall in the tax-paying sector, and we are planning to grant them only 25 million survival grants with an additional budget! This is such a small amount compared to the taxes paid by these sectors in previous years. Why so small?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U124	Thank you, Annely! There is no need for an expert to know that the lights are not on and no money comes from the hotel and that the catering establishments are closed. That's what we know today. But what's really bad is that you only read one line. All these areas are covered by the unemployment fund measure, all these areas are covered by the KredEx measure and many of them, I dare say, have certainly also used the sickness fund measure. At the moment when they were given the opportunity to write out their own sick list, 10,000 pages had been written immediately in the first two days. I must admit that, unfortunately or fortunately, I do not know whether the people themselves will decide and how to manage their families were very many of those who work on the frontlines today, such as pharmacists and merchants, because they are keeping their families. So they started looking for people elsewhere. If anyone today thinks that maybe the state would buy all the hotels, I don't want to believe that the Riigikogu will make this decision. This may be the decision, but it is the decision of 101 members of the Riigikogu. Today, we have measures for two months, the end of May, plus the economic measures that have been added here. If you're asking me if 15 million is a lot or not, then yes, it could be ten times as much and it still wouldn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U125	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U126	Thank you, good manager. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! I'm asking about the financing transactions that have been written on the budget line of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. They're about KredEx. There is a loan guarantee of EUR 300 million for existing bank loans, which means that about a billion and a half can be covered. It also has a working loan with a total budget of 500 million. I do not know if you discussed this in the Commission, but in general it raises the question of whether it would be wiser for the financial community and the business community to use this 500 million in KredEx in an analogous way to leverage the amount of guarantees. This could give a greater effect in the economy than the fact that KredEx itself is a borrower. Maybe you can comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U127	I must start by saying that the entire billion and a half that these measures, through KredEx's various options, are certainly too small to look at today's need. This is the first half that I think should perhaps be brought back to the table in the coming months. KredEx found and saw that he had this need, and their board was behind this proposal to split the guarantee in half and equity in half. There are also some of KredEx's own claims. I have to tell you, I don't know exactly, you should know that much better, you were the minister of this field in the meantime. There are some demands inside about why this side was raised. All must comply with the terms and conditions of the loan. But it is certainly important that, at this point in time, I say once again, there is nothing more agreed than that KredEx today had 100 million of its own resources to make all decisions. All that comes with the additional budget, how these funds are finally distributed and distributed and what is done with them, is still open today. On the one hand, they should come before the approval by the government of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and on the other hand, these decisions will eventually be taken in the government. It is not quite the case that the decision is made somewhere in the Ministry or in the MES or in KredEx, their councils are not final decision-makers. The final decision-maker is the owner today, and the role of owner is currently to be exercised by the ministry through the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U128	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U129	Thank you! I will specify this question of EUR 500. Firstly, it comes from the Social Democratic Party crisis action plan, and I still consider it a very good proposal. Secondly, you said that there are different support measures for families. This is certainly true, but these benefits are not for all families. In middle-income households and households with lower incomes, spending has also been very high and often overachievements. And we also consider that the current support measures do not reach all families. For example, many small businesses do not benefit from these benefits, or those families where one or both parents were already unemployed before the crisis began. You also referred to the support of municipalities. No municipal solvency will definitely decrease in the coming months and in the course of the year. My question is this: was this point also voted on, and how were the votes divided between the opposition and the coalition? Please talk about the result of the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U130	Thank you. If Riina were in the hall, it would be easier to answer that question. I apologize in advance if I'm wrong, but I'm telling you, I don't have a record on this table. Andres was on the committee, he could fix it. In my opinion, this amendment received two votes of support, and it was enough to bring it to the vote in the Chamber. We had a fundamental agreement that we would at least give all the amendments the opportunity to get to the Chamber and vote on them, no matter whose proposal it was, so that it would not be up to the Commission alone. If I'm wrong, I'll call you or write you, I'll check the protocol. But Andres and I are both nodding right now, so it was still two support votes. Maris must have given me another vote, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U131	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Some time ago, you mentioned here that the additional budget allocated to local governments was EUR 30 million in support of the income tax gap. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum to the additional budget states that the government and the Ministry of Finance are forecasting an income tax gap of 192 million and that the 30 million that you mentioned and which the state is going to help the municipalities with are planned to cover the costs associated with the crisis that the municipality has incurred and which have been promised to the municipalities. My question is this: did you or anyone in the Commission never ask how it is possible to cover the 192 million hole with 30 million and, among other things, to include the costs of the crisis, which, I think, could amount to 30 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U133	Thank you for a good question. In the same way, I might say in return, how do I cover these costs for my companies, if they have already been booked for the fourth week? Municipalities have to make decisions, very clear decisions. At this point, I should ask the ten heads of government on the same subject that you have written to me, sorry that I didn't answer you, I dealt with this subject, whether today is still in all buildings where nothing is happening, the last month of heating is turned to 15 degrees and everything else is closed, so the lights won't burn at night and day. Somewhere along the line, the savings have to start. And today, the hope is that all investments in road investments, real estate investments, KredEx investments in renovating apartment buildings are intended specifically for the municipalities' territories. There should be a revenue base to reduce this forecast figure. Yeah, that number's big. When I look at it, I'm gonna say it's awfully big. But today, efforts have been made to create different measures to ensure that this forecast number is not the case if all of these economic measures go in.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U134	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U135	Thank you! My question is about lowering the electric excise, you talked about it in response to Jürgen Ligi. Am I right to remember that, if this goes down, the price of electricity will be reduced by 3% and the average household will win ten euros a year? As an alternative, I propose Amendment 4, tabled by the Social Democrats. With about the same money, it would be possible to exempt all the elderly and their loved ones, families from the cost of a nursing home, and to provide a nursing home for their pension. This is a very important issue at all and a change that the country has not been able to make at some point in time. Now, in a crisis where the prices of nursing homes have also risen from 1 April, this is a terrible good and necessary thing that could have been done. But somehow you didn't support that with your coalition mates. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U136	I think that this proposal also received two votes of support. But you know very well that Estonia's electricity excise is actually the highest in the whole region. On the one hand, we are discussing the number and percentage of the electricity bill of one family all the time, but we forget how many companies have not come here, whether we want them or not, that is another question, is not because their energy input is high and their electricity consumption is high. They have been looking for other options, such as a much lower excise duty in Finland. If you are asking if you should find a solution to the subject of a nursing home, then a solution must be found. But it's not the solution that you pay for someone for a few months. This is a momentary improvement. I think that the whole system of today, where, for some reason, children or a husband have to pay for what is missing from the pension, is not fair, but no one has offered a very good solution to it today. After all, the solution you referred to is a one-time solution, you offer help for this one period. It says here that it was not for a long period, but only for a certain period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U137	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U138	Thank you, good manager. Good chairman of the committee! With this additional budget, the support package for all micro and small enterprises in Estonia has a total of 10 million euros, which should be distributed as support through EAS. When we exchanged views on the same subject with the Minister of Finance last week, he admitted that, as the explanatory memorandum provides for, this support is intended for those small businesses who want to redesign their activities after the crisis in order to start providing completely new services or producing new products. But in order to get there, the crisis has to survive somehow. And despite the hint you gave a week ago, you did not consider it reasonable or necessary to increase or clarify this measure in the Commission. What message will small and micro enterprises receive from this additional budget if they do not qualify for the unemployment fund measure and are not helped by the KredEx loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U139	Thank you. A perfectly legitimate question. We were just talking about the same thing here. After all, the whole problem is that today's employment contracts are simply different. We have all the benefits and opportunities to pay unemployment insurance through KredEx through the employment contract. Many micro-enterprises are self-employed, and I understand that we have about 20000 self-employed persons, some are seasonally employed persons, they do not work for a whole period, because the need for their service may not last 12 months, and third are those who have now joined the business account option. At this point in time, our request to the government has, in any case, been to review the unemployment fund measure. We have just forgotten that so much has changed in this century, this 20 years. In the last century, everyone was used to having employment contracts. Keit, I think you remember how we were arguing about the members of the board during the previous term in this very Chamber to give them the opportunity to pay this 2%. I think this is a topic that should come up here on the table in the coming months and find a solution: to give you the opportunity to pay the prescribed percentage of the unemployment fund in any form of business or employment, and to receive insurance for situations such as those that have arisen today in Estonia and in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U140	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U141	Thank you. If you look at these amendments, you can see that the proposal No 17 tabled by the Reform Party Group, as well as one earlier amendment concerning the monthly review of Riigikogu committees, would like to make the distribution of all this money considerably more transparent. Yet you have chosen not to support them. True, in one case, you say that this has been taken into account in substance, but yet you have abandoned it in order to support full transparency in all support measures. There are already political speeches from ministers, who are quite hip to evaluate which companies can be supported and to which they are not. Please tell me, how do you ensure that there is no abuse of these very large amounts?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U142	Thank you. If you look at Amendment 14, which has been unanimously supported by the Commission, there are several points precisely to minimize the risk that these measures might be abused in any way. In the case of grants granted on the basis of this Act, the grantor shall make public the beneficiaries of the grant from legal persons on his website. 'Salary conditions are the same as on the side of KredEx. We also have an agreement that the package of measures will first be presented to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and only then will it go to the government for approval. No package is a matter for a single minister. Just as I was asked, and I said, so you can ask the Minister, and he will answer, saying his opinion. But these opinions are not final truths or decisions, but must be confirmed by the government. These are not the decisions of one or two people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U143	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U144	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I come back to the Socialist proposal. At all, I think it is a sign that we are always talking in this Chamber about supporting businesses and businesses, which is absolutely right, but we are not talking about people at all. You were talking about self-employed people, but the other half of my question actually concerned those people who work under debt-law contracts, i.e. law and employment contracts, who have lost their jobs today and for whom there really are no labour market measures that could extend to them. Half of them are, of course, those who have not paid unemployment insurance contributions, and they have no hope of getting anything, says the unemployment fund. And on the other hand, the unemployment fund tells them to make their employment contracts, for example, an employment contract. In such a crisis, no company is willing to do so. These people are in trouble. I assume you used the expertise to analyse this proposal. I am interested in what or whose expertise you included in the Commission for its analysis and what were the reasons why it was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U145	I repeat once again that it is actually clear today that the measures of the unemployment fund, as you have read, do not apply to a number of forms of employment. Our request has now been this, and we hope that next week we will also receive this input, so that it will still be possible, through the unemployment fund, if a person has worked for a whole year and paid taxes, to count on this same social tax for a certain amount of support, as is currently the case here in the draft. To be honest, I've got two laws all messed up, which is which line. For example, creative subsidies are available; today it is possible to receive creative support within six months to the minimum wage. They are currently investigating, trying to find solutions. If no solutions are found, the next step is to review what opportunities are and what instruments can be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U146	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! One of the biggest drawbacks of this additional budget is that there are no austerity measures here. Stopping the second pillar is, but there are no cuts. I myself tabled an amendment. This is a good start, and it concerns known things, the places where money is left over because planes are not flying, the missions are canceled. The same fall in excise duties in this case also affects the price of buying-in by the public sector. This is the real thing that the ministries will have to do today. My proposal was a preliminary one, and I admit that the 1% I offered could have been higher, for example, 5% or even 10%. The Ministry of Finance constantly changes the methodology for calculating management costs in the budget and the budget is very opaque at all; it is difficult to propose amendments. But I'm asking when the government's cut-down budget will reach this Riigikogu. Will it be here before the summer? If he stays in the fall, the few or three months that remain until the end of the year, that cut won't work. I ask you this: will the government's reduction budget reach the Riigikogu before the summer or will it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U148	Thank you, Aivar, for a good question. All I can tell you is that maybe two weeks ago, at the meeting of the government that I attended, at my request, the government's obligation to discuss the measures of depreciation during the second quarter was to start implementing them. At the moment, there is an agreement that in April and May we will not come up with cuts in one sector, another sector or third sector, but in this period we will try to keep the economy alive with support measures in order to get out of the crisis more easily.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U149	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U150	Thank you, good manager. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! The second question comes from an area that I think you have not yet addressed. Let's just say that there is quite a few Estonian languages in the world, the Estonian-language media, independent, impartial and one that ensures that people are honest and sometimes critically informed. That is less than we would like, also in Estonia. And from time to time, I can see it, you can probably see how the editor-in-chief of some publications calls for even self-censorship, hoping, as a result, to get more help from the government. Perhaps you can now confirm from this remote control or describe exactly what the country's plans are and what you have discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in relation to how the media will be helped.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U151	Thank you. It's really hard for me to answer again. I own one edition myself. This crisis did not create such a crisis for me. I made decisions the same day, and I know the paper survived relatively well in March. How's he going to survive April? I certainly hope that if the turnover falls, it will be possible to use the unemployment fund's measures if necessary. When we look around in the press, we start by saying that, for example, Postimees has been the smart one who reduced employees' salaries by 30%. He thinks that his turnover will decrease by 30% and then he can ask for support from the unemployment fund. It reduced the number of pages from 32 to 24 which will result in a reduction in printing costs and certainly a reduction in the cost of returning home, as there is a difference in weight, although in cities the company will deliver the newspapers itself. I know Äripäev will appear one day instead of five days. When I look at the Estonian Päevaleht, it is also quite thin as a county leaf. All companies make decisions and all companies have a level playing field today. But when I look at the two packages that are under discussion here today, I see that they also contain one important measure for the publishers. This concerns the digital pages and the entire electronic side, whose VAT will be reduced from 20% to 9% from 1 May. So this support is directed directly at them. And it was good to support this measure, because I am not offering such a service with my own page at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U152	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will continue on my previous question. You said that 30 million will be given support and local authorities will have to watch how they manage. I guess we'll have to cut it. I, too, do not expect the country to pay for everything during the crisis. However, this has been said by both the Minister of Public Administration and the Minister of Finance, who has declared that local authorities do not have to cut their spending, and the state comes to their aid. That's why my questions and the misunderstanding about the numbers. At the same time, there are 70 million new investments in the additional budget. Would you please answer how you consider this conceivable? If the municipality has to cut labour costs, management costs, investments in its 2020 budget, how will it still have the opportunity to make and plan new investments, for which this measure is intended? I don't think that's possible. And that is why I have proposed that this money be allocated to cover the gap in the revenue base, but it has not been supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Would you please explain these questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U154	Yeah, that's very easy to explain. This is an economic measure, not a support measure, although you asked for it now called it a support measure. We have an economic measure to ensure that entrepreneurship does not disappear. As you're saying right now, the municipality's shutting down all its objects, no investment wants to be made to save money. If we don't contribute to some kind of construction or something, there's not gonna be a lot of stuff left in the area except the municipality. We should understand one thing: money comes from business, it does not come from the public sector! The public sector is run by business, and taxes are collected from it. And these economic measures are very unambiguously designed to generate additional investment. I understand your concern that maybe there should be some other means to support the municipalities specifically. But I say very clearly that this 70 million measure, as well as the 30 million measure intended for municipalities to build roads, is still for investments to be made, not for investments to be put to a halt. I received a letter yesterday from a region saying that we would not save on anyone's wages or expenses, but that we would not invest in a school house. If we get the money, we'll invest in the schoolhouse. That is the decision of the municipality, it is the decision of the municipal council how it operates during the crisis. I have three people at home today from five companies. I have to pay them off, or I have to lay off at some point. I have to make a decision. I have to pay the rent. In today's crisis situation, it is that everyone has to make their own decisions. Today, there is an economic measure, there are support measures. I do not know, but at least I have been told when we asked the Commission about the unemployment fund so that local governments could also ask for support there. I do not know whether any local government has asked about the municipal measure or not. At least at that point in the Commission, we were informed that this possibility existed for this measure. I don't know, I haven't read the measure myself. Once again, I understand your concern, and I absolutely do not disagree. But I am saying that when this economic measure was put up, its aim was only one: to support the survival of business.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U155	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U156	Thank you. You seem to know everything. You tell me everything you know. They don't really match the Commission's discussions, but all right. We are talking about things that Eesti Pank does not support and the opposition does not support. You claim that there are no political or party affairs in this budget, and I mentioned two things. First of all, it is impertinent to compare the two second pillars of suspension. You know that at the time you assign me this suspension, the circumstances were completely different. And the second question concerns excise duties. Well, that's great what you think about the past, about your positions, but in this case, they cost more than 100 million. What does this analysis say about how many percent of costs and cost prices it reduces the cost of a single transport company and the costs of a family budget? I know these numbers about. You try it too, you're behind it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U157	Thank you, Jurgen! The simplest answer would be to call the same entrepreneur. On the one hand, the reduction in diesel excise duty affects whether or not our transport sector survives. For example, only a week ago, Oleg Gross said that soon it would be no longer worth ordering any transport company from Estonia, because Lithuanian companies offer the service more favorably. Today, we have a question of whether or not we will let our businesses live by lowering the excise duty. [[The floor shall be specified.]] If you're taking fuel consumption, I can tell you that every liter is reduced to a maximum of 14 cents, that's, let's say, the gun price two weeks ago. But I'll tell you another example. We currently have a Tallink between Germany and Estonia. Why don't you ask the transport companies why some of the cars get on the ship? The reason for this is simple, they are filling their tank on the Lithuanian-Polish border and they think that this will win more. The state is compensating for this race. Pay it 600 euros and travel 22 hours on the ship and rest and sleep at that time. Today, every cent is counted, and in a crisis situation, the winner is the one who can offer his service on the market at the most affordable price. They're the easiest to survive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U158	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U159	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I have such a broader question about political culture. In today's difficult times, society and people expect political parties to work together. And this cooperation also means taking account of the opposition, supporting the opposition's proposals. For example, in our northern neighbours in Finland, the opposition is also involved in the development of crisis measures, unfortunately not in Estonia. How do you feel that a situation in which the government coalition has not supported any of the opposition's proposals will contribute to the cooperation of political parties, to the fulfilment of society's expectations?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U160	Thank you. I must inform you, sadly, that the opposition did not very much support the proposals of the sots, and most of your proposals received two votes of support. But that's no excuse, of course. Yes, it is certainly a bad thing that none of the proposals had been discussed with you and perhaps you had not discussed with us, which should have been improved here and which proposals should have been introduced. All I can say here is that the Commission made such decisions. Each Member of the Commission had the opportunity to vote by roll call and these decisions were taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U161	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U162	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I think there were certainly things in the opposition's proposals that could, in essence, have been supported and that you actually referred to yourself, saying that, at the beginning of the summer at the latest, the government will come back to them. But I ask once again to open up the financial reasons that were mentioned in the Commission. Why is stopping second pillar payments with compensation a good plan? Why is it better to borrow more expensive, because the interest in stopping payments is equal to return? What were the financial arguments on the basis of which it was decided that this was a good idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U163	Thank you. On the one hand, it is not necessary to borrow in this connection at the moment. On the other hand, you are right that if you look at the state of the market today, it is possible to borrow and it is cheaper than making repayments in two or three years' time. When we look at the discussions that have been held in this Chamber and the decisions that were made in this Chamber in the spring, the coalition also thinks, on the one hand, that making the second pillar optional becomes a law when the Supreme Court discusses it. And when these measures were discussed, it was actually the only measure that was an austerity measure, the rest being investment or support measures. I do not see any harm in the fact that there is also one such measure, which brings money into the budget during the crisis. Whether we like it or not, it is, Andres, we really have a personal, personal opinion and in some way maybe political opinion. I can always say in this Chamber that I hope I can still make payments to the second pillar until I retire. And that is why this bill, which was here a few months ago under discussion, provided for it to be voluntary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U164	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U165	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. A total of 17 amendments have been tabled to this additional budget. I come to one of them, it's number 15. This is one very necessary and simple amendment and relates to the fact that the Government of the Republic is given a very large mandate to go around with money and make decisions in addition to earlier ones. This amendment would like the government to give an overview of how this money has been used, how the emergency response is progressing, etc., and to give an overview to both the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Special Committee on State Budget Control. What can you possibly object to? You're the chairman of the Monetary Commission, aren't you? Unfortunately, the amendment proposed by the Reform Party has not been taken into account. Could you explain a little why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U166	Thank you, Urve! Somewhere it is said that the government has to report every month to the Committee on Monetary Affairs on how these measures have been used.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U167	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U168	Thank you. To tell you the truth, that last answer just got mixed up for me. I'll keep going. If we compare the amendments tabled by the opposition and the amendment that came from the Commission and the approval of which says, as if the opposition's proposal to make reporting more transparent was also taken into account, let us be honest that these are still very different things. I don't understand what's stopping you from doing all this transparently. In times of crisis, swift decision-making is indispensable, but it is all the more important that these decisions are made transparently and honestly. It is also quite clear that there is no specific fall in electricity excise duty, which reduces the electricity bill by a few percentage points, or the suspension of pension contributions, to the resolution of the crisis. My question is that you do not want to abuse this crisis in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U169	Thank you. Promise us that we will disagree on whether the reduction of excise duties is a crisis measure or not. As an entrepreneur, I believe that in times of crisis, input prices must be brought as low as possible. There are two main input prices in business: one is wage costs and the other is heating, electricity and gas costs. Third, material costs are always added. For this measure, it has been agreed today that it will be two years, it will not be long, it will not be infinite. And there is also a clause that, if the economy is to grow faster, the subject of this measure will perhaps be reached even sooner than in two years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U170	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you! Let's go to the negotiations. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U171	Ladies and gentlemen, We're dealing with an extra budget for coronavir. And there are actually two sides to this crisis. One is the health crisis and the other is the economic crisis caused by the collapse of society. With this additional budget, we should authorise the government to spend, which is inevitably linked either to the successful resolution of the health crisis or to the mitigation of the economic crisis caused by the closure of society. On this basis, the Reform Party proposed its amendments. From the outset, we promised that the Reform Party would not prevent the constructive and constructive processing of the additional budget in order to help Estonian people and companies to cope with the crisis as soon as possible. We have also expected an inclusive and constructive debate from the coalition, which we have been promised by the emergency leader Jüri Ratas. Unfortunately, the reality so far has been different. However, good coalition ambassadors, who have not been present in the discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you will be able to support in this Chamber the amendments relating to the resolution of this crisis. We proposed that instead of reducing excise duties, additional money should be directed towards health care in order to shorten treatment queues. People also have diseases other than the coronavirus, and they also need treatment. If the money for healthcare is spent during this crisis, people will die just like they would die from this virus, but simply from other diseases. Healthcare needs these millions, and it is not about money, it is about people's lives. We wanted KredEx to be accompanied by a separate aid measure for small businesses and self-employed people. The Estonian economy relies on medium-sized and small enterprises, which are very difficult to cope with this crisis, because there are no reserves behind their souls that would simply help people pay their wages if, at the same time, it is not possible to sell their goods to anyone in order to obtain the money necessary for wages. We will help small businesses, come and support this amendment. It is also widely understood that in the current crisis, the tourism sector, which, by the way, has a large number of employees, is hit the most and the longest. We wanted more money to go to the tourism sector so that these companies could survive the crisis and offer people jobs and bread. We also considered it necessary to channel money into the special fund for COVID-19 to help the regions affected by the crisis, such as Saaremaa, and to alleviate the shock that this region has experienced, and to strengthen the capacity of the sickness and unemployment fund to support people during the crisis. The private sector is hit hard by this crisis. The private sector has had to lay off, has had to reduce wages, has had to shut down its activities. As a result, the tax revenue of the State, or revenue from which the public sector is actually maintained, will also be significantly reduced. The public sector has not had to limit costs and we do not think this is right. If they don't cut their costs, it's like the public sector is living in a world where the party continues. Please, let us show solidarity with the private sector. Support our amendment on this subject. I know that at least the Fatherland considers this amendment to be fundamentally correct. You can also show it by voting in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, Each of you can support measures that will help the health sector, workers and businesses to survive this crisis more tolerablely. Please make the right decisions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U172	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U173	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about those people who have lost their jobs in this crisis or those who might lose their jobs. We talk very much here in the Riigikogu and, in my opinion, the government also talks very much about companies, companies and companies. Yes, businesses must also help in this situation, but first and foremost, we should see how people are doing. We have a great many who worked under a contract of employment or a contract of command: 26000 people. Today, there is virtually no labour market measure that could help these people. Of these, nearly 12000 people 13000 have paid unemployment insurance contributions. On this point, Martin Helme said last week that yes, you can go to the unemployment fund and find out what they say about it. They say make your employment contract a contract of employment. Well, I ask which employer, who previously considered it reasonable to have a contract of employment, would like to make it a contract of employment in the current crisis. Maybe he'll have to lay off this person soon or some other weight. It's just taunting people. Some of these people have no choice but to apply for unemployment benefit. Unemployment benefit is EUR 189. Please, go try: live out of it, pay for your car leases, pay for your home lease, and some other things. That's not possible! Question two: self-employed. Estonia has 22000 self-employed persons. They also have no measures to help them. Yes, indeed, the possibility of non-payment of social tax is a very good thing, but in a situation where you have zero euros in income, it does not help in any way other than that you do not owe the state taxes. It doesn't bring bread on the table. If we look around, European countries, such as Denmark and Sweden, have very high unemployment benefits. They raised these benefits so that the person.. would be able to do it again. If we look at Canada or look at Britain, we look at the very right-wing United States of America once again, we see subsidies for people who have lost their jobs in this crisis. I think that when we deal with this additional budget, we should have the principle that we have a duty to support people who have lost their jobs because the state and society have to overcome the health crisis. They're home today without work to save lives. And that is why I call on you to support Socialist Amendment 11: allocate EUR 20 million to the unemployment fund in order to be able to develop a support measure for those who are today without work, for those who are today without money, for those who are in difficulty today: coaches, taxi drivers, servicemen and many others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U174	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U175	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the additional budget, I have three points to make in eight minutes. So, please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U176	Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U177	I can't be uncritical, of course, but I'm moderately critical. The supplementary budget has the necessary things, the necessary measures and they are urgent. But the resource that is currently needed to overcome the crisis is still very large. Perhaps in the future such a burden will prove to be beyond the power of the country. So this resource must be used in a sensible, targeted and well-targeted way. First of all, the first, most serious complaint to the additional budget is that it does not have any cuts in expenditure. Well, it can't be that the public sector is spreading, while the private sector immediately started to cut costs and reduce activities. It can't be that the public sector is spreading! The public sector must have solidarity with the private sector. And we need to start cutting expenditure in the budget now. I was a little surprised by the answer from the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs to my question that the government would not come to a cut-in supplementary budget until the summer. What does that mean? So when's it coming? If he comes in the second half of the year and the end of the financial year is two, three or four months, so what are we going to cut? What, a couple of months? By then, the budget for this year will have been so-called "village," which is obviously currently too much for both the taxpayer and, in fact, the state as a whole. Then it's too late, we need to start cutting costs now. And I admit that the amendment that I have tabled to reduce the economic costs of ministries by 1% is a little small. It could have been even more, 5% or 10% due to the fact that the Ministry of Finance issued more precise calculations. As we know, we have a well-transparent state budget and the methodology for calculating management costs will also change every year. This cut could have been 5% instead of 1% or even 10%. This is the same draft excise duty cut that we know of today. Here Aivar Kokk said: 14 cents on the petrol liter depreciation, electricity also goes a little bit, 3% cheaper, gas also. And the public sector, ministries and other agencies, will either buy directly this energy and these articles or through services that are cheaper due to the fall in excise duty. And this is how the sums that are already available today are left over by ministries. And also: planes don't fly, missions are canceled, events are canceled, the cost of using the buildings of the ministries' departments is lower. That's known today, but why don't we cut the cost, I don't understand that. I understand that the loan money is coming very easily right now, but the Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee also said in an interview somewhere that the loan money should be paid back. In fact, if the fiscal policy of this government continues, this repayment will simply take place in such a way that the old loan will be repaid with a new loan, i.e. the so-called "loan roll-over" will start. But how do we know if these loan terms come into being, will the loan be granted so favorably, with both favourable interest and today? This means that we are now taking on the country's wild commitments and we do not know how the country will deal with them in the future. And the loan money's already coming at a huge rate. Today, there is a second reading, but there are already EUR 950 million in loan contracts during the emergency period. 700 million have been taken out of it. But why is it taken out? It hasn't been taken to just standing in a bank account, still to spend it. The loan money's gonna come in easy right now, but it's gonna take a lot of time. My next complaint is that there are things in the supplementary budget where it is very difficult to see the link with real crisis relief measures. They do not meet the criteria for crisis aid; they are difficult to treat as crisis aid. For example, I asked the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs about the measure on land capital. I remembered that when we discussed the basic budget for 2020, the Minister for Rural Affairs was left out of the budget for a whole series of things because there was no money. But now suddenly there is a great deal of credit, there are no more budget rules, and in the shadow of the crisis, things that were left out of the basic budget due to lack of money are being introduced. This is also the case with equity. I also asked whether there was an analogous measure in the applications of the Ministry of Rural Affairs for the 2020 budget, yes, was an analogous measure, was the answer. Thirdly, there is little time; I cannot deal with all this extra budget in one speech, but these are the same KredEx measures. There's these guarantees and loans, but there's a little bit too high interest rate on 4 to 6% of the loans. While we have dealt with these measures here, aid packages from other countries have come and there is still an analogous measure at a much cheaper rate of 1 to 2%. It was allowed to take a micro-enterprises measure with an interest rate of around 3%, but whether or not it comes, how it comes, well, who knows. So there are a disturbing number of things in the supplementary budget that cannot be directly linked to crisis aid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U178	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This could have been the kind of extra budget for cooperation where the opposition and coalition vote in the same way and deal with the real thing, not their own political interests. Of course, it wasn't a good promise how the Minister of Finance started. After all, he declared that we had a crisis before there were major international restrictions and when they were still not in place in Estonia and no number spoke of the crisis. He was looking for a way to show up and take advantage of the situation. One thing, let's remember what he called out was the crisis committee, but of course he didn't want to deal very much with the crisis. This crisis committee came together twice, and then the minister cheated on him because this committee advised him to take rapid, precise, well-targeted steps to keep jobs, to keep businesses and, of course, to support medicine. This is such an international standard, when you look at what other countries have done, what organisations have recommended, we see that exactly the same. Well, and at the next stage, with some delay, of course, different investments and more selective activities are being considered. In general terms, the expert opinion has not missed this budget. We very much agree with the things that are being done with the Health Insurance Fund, KredEx, which is being done in medicine. We also agree with those things where capital is considered to be invested in companies. But we do not agree with the things that are only to take advantage of the situation, to spend money. Because apparently there's more money than ever. All credit limits are off-line, the loan itself is currently very cheap, there are no budget rules, state aid rules are not always spent. Of course, in this situation, too, the choices must be precise, because the invoices must still be paid. And the distortions that are now being created, after all, will be paid for. What is ugly about this budget? Of course, they're using that second-pillar extermination thing again. There's a man sitting behind me who's been living for this for the last few years. It's a disgrace. What came out of this thing is not that he's sitting there, he's actually sitting pretty well, let's say like this, in this job, as a politician, he still produces a lot of crap. And that's his biggest shit. As regards what has now become of this amendment, it is particularly strange to try deliberately to confuse the suspension of 2009 and this suspension. They're incomparable. There was no money at the time, it was necessary to save the Estonian kroon and it was necessary to meet the criteria, the budget needed to be balanced. Right now they're just fooling around, pulling a parallel with that time of the day, but summing up, I'm guessing, a loan at a quick loan rate. It will start to compensate for what is now being paid instead of leaving the pillar alone. 25% will definitely come from this interest rate, I think more will come. I think 45% might come, but since it's the average of the period, we can't say exactly how many markets are rising from the bottom. But the quarter is still rising. You wouldn't take a loan like that. Probably wouldn't even go to the store for money sponsored by Bigbank. But that's the cost to the state. Of course, taking advantage of the situation is... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U180	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U181	...that's how you grab from the Rural Promotion Foundation. We all understand the problems of agriculture, but they are not about not being granted loans at the moment. Their main concern right now is to get the job done to have a workforce, but here one tenth of the whole package of measures is being pushed through just so that EKRE ministers can share something, so that Mart Järvik can share something, too, and Mart Järvik's great dreams can be met. Very ugly! A farmer may also be in the general order of receipt of payments in the current circumstances. In this sense, these measures could have been harmonised. But in any case, the problem of agriculture is not 1/10 of the problem of the whole economy. The problem of agriculture is currently a smaller part of the problems of the whole economy than agriculture itself is, because it is one of the most secure sectors. Even if prices fall, this production can still be kept alive and harvested in the autumn when the loan is currently granted. By the way, they will. One false argument was that the Minister here had the first spring loan to be taken away. Rapid checks were not carried out; banks are interested in granting loans to farmers, but of course not to everyone. And the kind of thing like a non-refundable loan is only in Aivar Cook's head. Now, what's gotten out of this thing? There's a thing that doesn't want to be voted against, because the essentials have been put forward and it's still written in here, but keeping it alive, it's getting too little money to keep it alive. That is why we have proposed the same amount of money, including the proposal not to throw away excise revenue. Again, they do not want to answer that question. Aivar Kokk is talking about his own life story because he has nothing to say about the Commission. Only the opposition will hold a debate in the Commission. We don't even know the arguments why. What are the calculations that excise duty is now needed to lower and send this money to the mud pit, as the Minister of Finance said here last time. How many percent of the cost, one transport company wins? I can tell you, it's 3-4%. But in reality, we need to help people whose revenues fall 100%, 30%, 80%. And throwing more than 100 million away just on the basis of some political kink and electoral programme in circumstances where everyone should stick together and show solidarity is impertinent, even though I understand the popular decision. I don't think there's a single sound coming from what I'm saying. I'm sure the picker wants cheaper fuel, but it's just impertinent from the point of view of crisis management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U182	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U183	Ladies and gentlemen, Various government ministers have confirmed that local authorities retain an existing income base. At first reading, Minister of Finance Martin Helme encouraged the governments of the Riigikogu not to cut planned investments and plan new investments for economic recovery. Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, has stressed in the press release that there is no need for budget cuts on the part of local governments. However, the supplementary budget at second reading reveals the harsh truth. The government has forecast EUR 192 million for the municipality's income tax gap. However, in order to mitigate the reduction of the revenue base, the government is planning only EUR 30 million, which includes, among other things, compensation for the costs associated with the crisis. By dividing 30 million between 79 municipalities, we receive roughly EUR 380000 per municipality. In the example of Rae rural municipality, during the crisis, it will cost approximately EUR 150000 for the parents to be released from the place fee for one and a half months alone. I dare say that this 30 million may not even cover all the costs incurred by the municipalities involved in the crisis, not to mention the loss of a revenue base of EUR 192 million, even partially. In turn, an additional budget of EUR 100 million will be allocated for rapid economic recovery: EUR 30 million for road remediation and EUR 70 million for new investments to boost the economy. 30 million exceptional support for road investment is, of course, welcome. Local roads are in a poor state in many places and underfunded for years. Hopefully, already planned road investments that could be put at risk due to a fall in income tax will be made through this support. On the basis of the above figures, however, it is clear on a daily basis that local authorities have to make large cuts and not all planned activities and investments can be made. At the same time, the State encourages the planning of new investments of EUR 70 million. According to the explanatory memorandum to the additional budget, it cannot and must not be spent on investments already planned, but new ones must be planned. As a former local government leader, I do not understand how municipalities can lose 130 million euros in the best-case scenario, watch pink glasses ahead, start their own budget and start making new investments. It is clear that if local governments are unable to implement investments in 2020 due to the fall in income tax and are forced to cut both management and personnel costs, they will also not be able to plan new activities that are not planned in the budget. That is why I have tabled two amendments to the supplementary budget. Firstly, to target EUR 70 million, which at the moment would be limited to new investments only, to cover the overall shortfall in the local government's revenue base. In such a case, the State would have to help the municipalities to cover the EUR 130 million tax gap of EUR 192 million. In this case, too, the municipalities will have to tighten their belts significantly or borrow to invest, but at least the State's aid would be significantly higher and also provide real support. My second amendment relates specifically to the granting by the State of a favourable loan to local governments. We have heard several times from the Minister of Finance how the state has received a loan at zero or negative interest rates. At the same time, on the basis of the real examples of recent weeks, it has been known that obtaining loans for local governments has increased by 2 to 3 times, which will, of course, have to be paid for the next few years. Municipalities are the closest to our people, organizing life from kindergartens and schools to social work and nursing homes. Their investments on the ground are also most directly affecting people's lives on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen, Please let us trust local authorities, come to their aid during the crisis, at least partly help to cover the budget gap arising from the underrunning of income tax, and let those who are best acquainted with local conditions make the right decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U184	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U185	Thank you. Good Riigikogu! This crisis has hit the people of Estonia, Estonian companies hard and fast, and it is our duty that the support measures of the state can be adopted quickly. There are a number of sensible things and packages of measures in this budget as a whole when we are talking about an unemployment fund or when we are talking about KredEx measures or when we are talking about, for example, a temporary suspension of tax interest. These are all the necessary things to help. Cooperation has been very much discussed in this crisis. It has been said in this Chamber, it has been spoken about by the Prime Minister, it has been spoken about by other people, and I think it is very important. In this key, I regret that we had quite a number of amendments, which were included in this spirit of cooperation, but were not considered possible to be supported by the coalition. For example, an increase in expenditure on health care. We know how hard Saaremaa was hit, how much medical workers in other areas of Estonia are on the front line to carry and fight. When I asked the Committee on Monetary Affairs for an explanation of the impact of the reduction of the health fund's income on the health care system, the answer was very simple: this effect is an increase in the number of treatments. I don't think that's right. We need to find ways to overcome this crisis and also to secure funding for the health insurance fund. And we had a proposal for that. We are talking about EAS direct payments in the tourism sector and subsidies for small businesses and micro-enterprises. It is clear that there is not enough money for this, too, and we have proposed to double these subsidies in both areas to a total of 50 million and a total of 20 million. I'm sure that would have helped. It is a pity that this proposal was not supported, but you can, of course, support it in the vote in this Chamber. Nothing's locked yet. As far as micro-enterprises, self-employed people, debt-law workers, who have been discussed a lot here, have somehow fallen into floorboards in terms of support. I would also like to emphasise support for strategic enterprises in temporary difficulties. Yeah, it's very important. But in order for it to be successful, in order for taxpayers to finally get their money back, this process must be carried out professionally and well prepared. Before we start discussing in public or non-public space who could receive support by name, it is reasonable and very necessary to agree on these criteria. I am quite convinced that it will not be possible to carry out this process professionally without the involvement of financial and legal advisers. None of the ministries has the competence to consider investment conditions and prices for firms in difficulty. And it is also important that this support is short-term, that the country wants to exit as soon as possible. And all this corporate governance should be brought together under a single organisation. I've suggested SmartCap as one idea, but it could be another. This is not a priority, it is important that the process is rapid and transparent and that management is understandable. Third, second pillar payments. It has been mentioned several times in this Chamber and it is sad to me that the government wants to use the most expensive method of covering the deficit. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U186	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U187	As has been said in this Chamber, this rate of return, which is compensated for by those who join the second pillar and is fair, also means the percentage of credit that taxpayers pay back. And it will be paid back not by those who have joined the second pillar, but by those who have not joined the second pillar, i.e. actually today's pensioners, the older generation. It's, I think, unfair. And finally. This crisis requires very rapid solutions, and we certainly do not get one hundred percent exactly on all things and on all measures. There will certainly be a breach here and there will certainly be some things that need to be corrected in the course of the work, but the more important is the transparency of the whole process. It is a good thing that we are in agreement that all beneficiaries of the grant, when we talk about companies, we talk about NGOs, foundations must be known, their names will be public. However, I regret that the reporting point, despite what we said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, did not actually come to the amendments. Please support the proposals that we have put forward, and we will be better able to deal with this crisis together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U188	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U189	I would like to thank the good chairman of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, You all know that Eesti Pank is predicting a downfall of up to 14% for us, but Mart Laar, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, wrote a few days ago in Postimees that he does not rule out that this decline will be even deeper. The OECD has predicted that the current restrictions are likely to cost us about a quarter of our GDP, but this is based on the current known limitations. If the emergency situation is to be prolonged and prolonged, the number will probably increase over time. This weekend, an interview was published with one of the leaders of a large company in Estonia, who predicts that there will be 100,000 unemployed in Estonia in a few months' time. So, in any case, we have entered a crisis of difficult foreseeable duration and magnitude. And I certainly support with two hands that we are helping our entrepreneurs in this situation. To some extent, it is a pity that this help has taken time. It is a pity that many companies, especially smaller and medium-sized ones, are left without aid. Perhaps it is because we do not have much faith in today's government, as this weekend proved: if you ask three ministers, you will get at least four opinions. And it seems to me that this weakness of government and executive power means that the Riigikogu must make even more effort. And that means we have to think ahead and look behind the curve. We're trying to push this curve a little smoother, but we're still looking at what's behind this curve. And I very much appreciate, by the way, my fellow Members from the Reform Party. Their capacity, their ability to think ahead in the area of public finances is very welcome and their contribution is also welcome. Thank you so much for that. For its part, the Social Democratic Party Group has also proposed a plan for various social crisis measures. On this basis, we have proposed this draft procedure. They are mainly focused on families with children and older people, because we see how deep this crisis is going to be, how great these challenges are for the people of Estonia. Once again, I would like to mention one of the issues that we have already discussed in the round of questions and answers. This concerns support for families with school-age children with EUR 500. As a former North-Tallinn parent and elected MP from Tallinn, I can assure you that families in Tallinn with higher than average incomes have in fact found it difficult to adapt to this situation. It has come to buy new equipment, has had to make a variety of expenses. Family arrangements have changed rapidly. I imagine that there are many regions in Estonia where the average income is very low and where coping is very difficult. I am very sorry that our proposal to support families during this difficult time was not supported in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It seems to me that in the previous crisis, we did not support people enough. As a result, dissatisfaction increased in society, but the desire for very radical changes also increased. And it has proved to be a favorable ground for all kinds of political forces who allow hard hand and radical change. Believe me, these same political forces are also using the current crisis, and far more brutally and brutally than the previous one. It's already started to some extent. In this crisis, we must be smarter. We must have more care, we must have more notice, we must notice people who need help, and we must help them. This is particularly the case for families with children, and it is particularly the case for older people. And the first step to prove that we really care that we notice that we are prepared to provide urgent assistance would be the same support for home learning provided by the social democrats. I think that's a very good idea. If this should come to the vote today, I very much ask you: support it! And even if it falls out of the proceedings today for some reason, let's move on with this idea! Perhaps there is some compromise, perhaps it is possible to implement this proposal in some other way, so that we can really bring this help to the families. Thank you very much, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U190	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U191	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't really intend to speak today. But some of the arguments of the economic liberals need an answer. I will not go into the details of the budget, it is always possible to do more, it is always possible to do better, but I would like to mention the chosen economic policy strategy. This budget is a historic step in the organisation of the Estonian economy. Finally, we are not responding to the crisis with austerity. Finally, the state plays its role as a driver of economic recovery, as a guardian of the economic environment. We have a country that invests and borrows when entrepreneurs do not want or cannot. We remember very well when the economy of the euro area as a whole scrambled. The previous crisis was answered with cuts and all euro area countries came out of the crisis very slowly. Some didn't come at all. Italy cut 37 billion from its health care, and we all see what is happening now as a result of this cut. We don't do that. Today, the state of Estonia is paid to take out a loan. If we did not do this, we would leave investments on the shelf, we would not create jobs, then we would simply commit a crime against the Estonian people, as has been done in this country before. We don't do that. So, dear Liberals, the era of cutting is over, the era of austerity is over. The state recognises its role as an economic engine and this budget is the first step on this path! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U192	Thank you. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U193	Ladies and gentlemen, The emergency situation has been going on for a month now, and with few exceptions, society as a whole has behaved in solidarity, in harmony, in a caring way. People have taken a very sympathetic view of the increasing restrictions that the emergency situation has brought with it. People are willing to sacrifice their personal comfort, their freedom, often their economic well-being or their livelihood for a common purpose: to defeat this invisible and perhaps even more formidable adversary that attacks us as a corona virus. Not to mention those who have been on the frontline: doctors, carers, kindergarten teachers, police officers, sellers and many other conscientious people who have come from the knowledge that, in the event of an emergency, we must stick together, that we must be in this situation, not my society. This has been a common concern and care, although most are not a risk group in terms of health. Everyone has been willing to make an effort to protect a high-risk minority. It's unspeakably sympathetic. I'm not ashamed to say it's made me proud of our people. And I know I'm not the only one. But when I read the extra budget we have before us, it seems to me that I have come into some parallel world, another country, perhaps even another planet. How else is it possible to describe a situation where no opposition amendment is taken into account when discussing the crisis budget? Do families with children really not need support if they are to remain at home? How should families who no longer have enough income to pay for their loved one's home if the state is not ready to help? Can pensioners living alone cover all the additional costs of bringing food, medicines and other necessities home? What should hairdressers, taxi drivers and many other small businesses who have paid their taxes as a self-employed person or as a member of the board of directors think about their country and therefore do not receive any help at a difficult time? Has work done under a contract of command or employment been less necessary for society? How can the head of the government coalition call for us, not my society, to be in a crisis situation and, at the same time, for the coalition it manages to go over the needs of all the members of society who have been overlooked in the process of rounding up the additional budget of the government? I don't understand it. However, I have not given up hope that at least some of the opposition's amendments will be voted in favour in this Chamber. How else would it be possible to explain to the helpless that our government is also acting as our government, rather than assuming it from all other members of society? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U194	Maris Lauri, please! Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U195	Ladies and gentlemen, We do not really know how long this crisis is going to last, the health crisis and the economic crisis. The economic crisis is certainly going to last longer than the health crisis. And the depth and duration of this crisis will depend on parameters that we ourselves cannot influence very much. We do not know how this health thing will develop here in Estonia. We may be doing well ourselves, but if things are worse for our neighbours in Latvia, Finland, Sweden and Germany, then neither can we begin to improve quickly. In such uncertainty, it would make sense to be cautious in a sense. We can take out a loan. And I would like to remind you that no one has argued against this in the current crisis that the Estonian state would take out a loan. This is possible and, in this case, it can be considered quite favorable. But favorable times may at some point, for reasons beyond our control, go into the forest and get by. It may happen that the country's lending capacity will also deteriorate for our own sake if we borrow very quickly and spend this money not very rationally. In fact, we ourselves may feel that we are doing things very well and rightly, but it may not seem that way to bystanders at some point. This is why you have to be careful about borrowing, even if it is relatively easy to borrow. This means that if we spend money, we must carefully consider what we are doing. We have an additional budget that is behind the planned EUR 3.5 billion minus. It may seem that now we're gonna straighten this money out and we're gonna get a lot done. With this additional budget, there is no material, the points that you can see clearly. With great effort, as members of the Monetary Commission, we learned from the Ministry of Finance that 1 billion to 1 billion will be planned, i.e. 1.5 billion will be received. What about the rest? Maybe there'll be more later, maybe not, we don't know that. But it's probably understood that things aren't really rosy, and that's why the plan is to go after the second pillar of the pension and the stabilisation reserve. However, there is no match between these two things that, at the same time, the accents are being exulted. Maybe this fall makes sense at some point, but in this context, it doesn't. You know, you can blow that excise duty at zero, but if people don't want to consume fuel right now, they don't. Well, don't! If you don't drive, you don't get fuel. And there's no way you can increase consumption in this situation. In a situation where we don't know what's going to happen, it's very wrong to spend our money on things that just seem nice. Here before, there have been talks about political promises, election promises, noble ideas that have never been included in the budget before, but now, at a difficult time when there is no money, they suddenly fit. I don't understand it. At the same time, good ideas have not, at least, reached out to us to solve things where everyone recognises that there is a problem. For example, micro-enterprises, tourism. In the tourism sector, measures for two or three months do not help. You see, we don't get the Finns back in June, maybe they come in August, some. But does it cover the hole that's already formed this summer? After all, companies involved in tourism lose all summer. This means that they do not have basically livelihoods in winter either. Have we thought about that? I don't think so. The same is true of many other small businesses. I am sure that large companies are also important and how they are handled. But you can't think like that, well, you worked on a contract of command, so you didn't pay taxes. Believe me, however, the majority of people in Estonia also pay taxes for self-employed persons, including those who work under an executive contract, including those who work alone in their private limited company. Most of them pay taxes. These are few who use forms of entrepreneurship maliciously, selfishly. Why, then, do we make solutions based on their maliciousness? That, of course, is what I say in a broader sense. But once again, the great commitments that the country is taking must be very closely monitored so that this money is not wasted. I was talking earlier about pointless spending, that maybe in the fall it's like we can't get a cheap loan anymore, but we need money. Before a colleague said that we would no longer be cut. I don't dare say we're not cutting anymore. Even with the best of will, there may be a situation where there is simply nothing else left, just no one giving a loan or giving it at a predatory interest. I think we have enough reason and will to resolve things well, not to draw lines between the coalition and the opposition. In this sense, too, I am saddened that the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs were very unilateral. We didn't really discuss these issues. It is very difficult to discuss when the other party is simply silent. But if you did not want to discuss or could not discuss, perhaps you have a conscience, perhaps you have the ability to think in favour of at least some of the proposals that came from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U196	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please! Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U197	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, In one way, it's nice that we have an e-state. For me, this was a bright example today when I took part in my Riigikogu office virtually at the municipal council meeting and voted with my right hand with the ID card, while listening to the speeches in this Chamber. I wouldn't have come to this remote control, but that's what Oudekki Loone gave me when he shouted over the hall that the austerity was over. He referred to Italy. If I understand correctly, he said that because of their austerity, their health budget is very low, and it also seems to me to be sick in Italy and fighting it. I dare remind you that before this budget was cut, the slogan in their hall was probably the same as today's Oudekki Loone slogan that the time for austerity was over. Local authorities are currently discussing the state of affairs and are quite upset. How can we actually cope, even with this much-hungry additional budget, it is predicted that 192 million personal income tax will fall. What makes me very sad now is, in fact, that at the beginning of the crisis the opposition also told the crisis leader in this Chamber that we are ready to support constructive proposals, but do not put in place proposals that are not directly or urgently linked to this crisis. Unfortunately, this additional budget, as well as some other budgets, shows very nicely that it has not been taken into account at all. The coalition ambassadors on the various committees have admitted that yes, maybe it is not linked to the crisis, but in the future we may get even harder, so let's see. I think this is a very dangerous precedent. I'll bring the MES, for example. Today we had a meeting where we listened to both KredEx and the MES, and it was bold to admit that many of the measures on the agenda are not linked to the current crisis. What do I mean by that? It's actually very simple. Since ATMs do not provide enough and infinite amounts of money, it would be extremely sensible to divide crisis management into stages and analyse what is possible for crisis management in the first and second and third stages, based on which sectors are most hit and what we urgently need to do. Unfortunately, the opposition has the impression that since there is now an opportunity, the loan money is going to be very much on top, no one else cares. The European Commission has also endorsed some of the packages with this idea in order to alleviate certain public procurement conditions, and now we are putting in as much money as we can to withdraw. However, since this is not enough, we should also go to the stabilisation reserve, in the first phase. And this is a problem despite the fact that the Minister of Finance has said here that perhaps we will only need it at the beginning of next year. As far as the second pension pillar is concerned, I think the coalition is talking absolutely against itself here, or rather it is implementing this policy, which declares that the austerity period is over, take as much credit as possible. In itself, it would not be wise to stop the second pension pillar, especially if it would cost the state, the taxpayer, more later, to compensate for the people for whom this suspension will take place. So what's the point? It doesn't make any sense. If we really do have a few more months, as some experts have said, to easily recover the loan money, you are asking for 200 million, but $206 million, it would make sense to use this credit buffer. We do not just mean that we give blind blanks, that you take 200 million in loans, and we absolutely do not care how this money is distributed, what are the principles on which it is distributed. Indeed, as a group, we have also said that the KredEx measures are certainly good. What concerns me is that there are 100 million in it, which concerns the renovation of apartment buildings, but we do not know which principles are intended to share it. As a member of the Riigikogu, I am very interested in the distribution of hundreds and hundreds of millions at one point. And as Aivar Kokk said today, well, we are discussing a second supplementary budget here, but the MES has already adopted the principles. I am referring precisely to the same question. We would like to know more about the way these sums are distributed, and we want to have a say in this. And not just to criticise, but to find better solutions that can be implemented through this whole package. I already referred to renovation loans. We have been told in this Chamber for several years in a row that we must not throw a lot of money into the market at once, that the twenty million that have been distributed here over the years is enough. Now we have 100 million, but the last half of this 100 million will lead to 2023 or 2024, given that there are no criteria today and that there are plans to implement renovation projects based on so-called factory solutions. The factory is trying to produce possible compact solutions for Annelinna, Mustamäe, Lasnamäe to get a finished product quickly. When I asked today which factories this opportunity would be shared and how the country would decide who would do it, it was said that we did not know it now. We know the general principle, and at the moment this money is being distributed, you can bet that a lot of players are willing to participate. But these principles of how to do this have not even been discussed so far. Why give people money when principles are not agreed? This is actually the reason for our scepticism about this additional budget. We wanted things not to be put in a pot, a crisis measure and a future measure not to be confused. We could have been honestly told that these are crisis measures, but these are measures that we want to resolve in a prospective way. We are in power today, and we are solving the crisis by taking on credit money and borrowing it further so that others can borrow more. Such a difference is in a certain attitude. But, Oudekki, I think you'll be disappointed. It's not over. People are already low-living. They've already surrounded their households. And if the Riigikogu or the coalition have not yet understood it, then it is high time to understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U198	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiations. The negotiations are over. 17 amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will examine them together. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is the position of the commission: take full account. The second amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, is the position of the commission: to be disregarded. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U199	Thank you. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U200	We're going to vote on this. Dear Riigikogu, I shall vote on the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment, tabled by the Mart Võrguship, is the position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please, Mart Võrguship!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U201	I would like to ask for an amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U202	Let's get to that vote. Do we need a signal, or can we go to the vote now? We can go to the vote now. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the third amendment tabled by the Mart Võrguship. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 52 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, is the position of the lead committee: to be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U203	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U204	We shall proceed to the vote on this amendment. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the position of the commission of the fourth amendment, which has been forwarded by the Group of the Social Democratic Party: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 6 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 54 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the lead committee: to be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U205	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment, which contains support for home learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U206	We shall proceed to the vote on this amendment. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the fifth amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 7 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, with 56 abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The sixth amendment, tabled by Mr Sõerd, is the position of the commission: to be disregarded. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U207	I would like to ask for this extremely necessary amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U208	We will vote on Amendment 6. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the sixth amendment tabled by Mr Sõerd. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 53 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U209	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U210	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Reform Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 57 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: to be disregarded. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U211	Thank you. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U212	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment tabled by the Mart Võrguship. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U213	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U214	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the ninth amendment tabled by the Mart Võrguship, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 52 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 10th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the lead committee: to be disregarded. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U215	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U216	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the 10th amendment tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 10 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 51 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, position of the commission: disregard. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U217	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U218	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 52 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, position of the commission: disregard. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U219	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U220	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 12th amendment tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 52 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 13 tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. 14th amendment, which has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. Amendment 15, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, position of the commission: disregard. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U221	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U222	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 15th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 51 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. 16th Amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, position of the commission: disregard. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U223	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U224	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 16 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 50 against, no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Last amendment, No 17, position of the leading committee tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party: consider the substance. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 171. Second reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 9 a.m. on 14 April this year. We have discussed today's second item.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U225	Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the State's additional budget for 2020 relating to the law (measures relating to the spread of Corona virus causing COVID-19 disease). I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U226	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Act amending the laws relating to the State's Supplementary Budget Act 2020 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 2 April, together with the State's Draft Supplementary Budget for 2020 for the implementation of the emergency situation and measures developed to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic spread of the Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. The draft contains amendments to the specific laws which have an impact on the additional budget, i.e. which contain the basis or rates of the financial accounts and which must be amended for adoption or adoption of measures in the supplementary budget. The State Budget Act is complemented by the provisions on the budget strategy and the drafting of the draft state budget in the event of an emergency situation. The draft passed its first reading on 6 April. A total of 11 amendments were received by the deadline for submitting amendments: five from the Estonian Reform Party, two from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, one from Riina Sikkut, two from the Cultural Commission and one from the Group of the Estonian Central Party, one from the Group of the Conservative People's Party and one from the Group of the Isamaa. The Finance Committee made 12 changes to the draft in cooperation with the initiator, mainly the Ministry of Finance. The Commission asked the sectoral committees concerned for an opinion on the draft. The Committee on Culture expressed its support for the proposed harmonisation of the VAT rate for e-books and e-publications with the VAT rate for paper publications. Two amendments were also supported, namely 10 and 11. The National Defence Committee expressed its support for the proposed amendments to the Defence Union Act. Retroactive support to the Defence Leagues performing their duties during emergency and emergency situations is considered essential. The Committee on the Environment agreed to the proposed amendments to the Environmental Charges Act. The Committee on Economic Affairs supported the changes proposed by the draft in its area and the rapid handling of the crisis package. As regards the introduction of special features for the provision of social services in the Social Welfare Act, the Social Committee drew attention to the need to treat users of special care and general care equally. The Social Affairs Committee also invited the commission to ask the Government of the Republic to submit to the Riigikogu the draft implementing regulations for the support measures to be introduced due to the emergency situation. I would like to thank the committees who have been able to discuss the draft and to express their opinion on the draft. It should also be noted that the additional budget and this draft have received a large number of requests within a short period of time from businesses and stakeholders, which once again shows the gravity of the situation. All these addresses can be viewed on the Riigikogu website. The Committee on Finance began the hearing of the relevant ministers at the meeting of the Commission on the same day that the draft was accepted. Before the first reading of the draft on 6 April, the Commission discussed the draft at three meetings: on 2, 3 and 6 April. During the very short procedure, the Commission has heard and questioned seven ministers. Changes in their area of activity regarding the additional budget, as well as this draft, were presented by the Minister for Finance, Education and Science, Rural Affairs, Economic and Communication, Social Affairs, Culture and Public Administration. After the first reading, the Commission discussed the draft on three occasions: on 7 and 9 April, but also this morning, on 13 April, to answer as many questions as possible. The meetings have been attended by the Minister of Finance, officials of several ministries and representatives of KredEx. There is no doubt that the desire to further discuss, analyse and consider all the measures proposed in the draft is justified, but the situation does not, unfortunately, give us more time to do so. Due to the quite broad framework of legislation and the important budgetary impact of the package of measures, as well as the urgent procedure of the draft, the Committee on Monetary Affairs also paid attention to the role of the Riigikogu in controlling executive power in designing these very important measures. For example, the Commission included in the draft a requirement that the general conditions for support measures be laid down by a regulation of the Government of the Republic, emphasising its commitment by ministers to the establishment and implementation of support programmes and emergency measures in their fields. Amendment 19 is to this effect. As regards the introduction of specific measures and the additional budget, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided by consensus: The regulation on the general terms and conditions for support measures to be introduced as a result of an exceptional situation must be notified by the Government to the Committee on Monetary Affairs before signing. The regulations on emergency measures in the social field must be introduced before they are signed in the Committee on Social Affairs. The Government shall provide the Committee on Monetary Affairs with an overview of the implementation and costs of emergency measures at least once a month. The Chancellor of Justice also turned to the Finance Committee in relation to the draft plan to supplement § 69 of the State Budget Act with paragraph 21 of the Act, with which the initiator wished to permit the amendment of the maximum permissible debt balance provided for in the State Budget Act instead of the Act by a decision of the Riigikogu. The Committee on Finance decided to exclude this provision from the draft and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the proposed solution is Amendment 18. Amendment 15 of the Reform Party Group, which found full consideration, Amendment 16 of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and Amendment 17 of the Reform Party Group, also concerns the State Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U227	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Still is. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U228	Thank you. If we now sum up both drafts and both processes, it is clear that the role of the Rural Promotion Foundation is quite large. 200 million have been entrusted to the Rural Promotion Foundation. As far as I can remember from the Rural Promotion Foundation, and it has been 20 years or, in fact, 27 years, when considering its predecessors, it is clear that there have been some people from political backgrounds who have changed with the change of powers, and the other part has been very clearly representatives of professional organisations. In recent times they have been a central union of farmers, a Chamber of Agriculture and Food Industry, and as a financial expert, the Council has been a person from the Ministry of Finance. A year ago, the Council of the Rural Promotion Foundation was freed from this kind of experts with a major political turn. We have proposed that representatives of producer organisations be returned there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U229	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U230	What has been your objection to having representatives of producer organisations returned to the Council, especially in the current situation where the MES has a very high level of responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U231	I think that no one directly objects, but unfortunately in the Commission this proposal did not receive sufficient support. But it can be discussed in this Chamber. So much of the motion received votes that it came to the Chamber for the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U232	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U233	Thank you. Honourable waitress! On the previous point, you answered the question of an additional budget and said that the suspension of payments under the second pillar is the only reduction in the supplementary budget. Is it such a general ideological trend in the government coalition that, if there is a need to cut down, the priority is to cut down on the social security system?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U234	That's a good question! As well as you asked, the answer is much more complicated. Fatherland's party has certainly been a party in the coalition today, who has said with a loud and clear voice that in times of crisis, cuts in public budget expenditure must also be dealt with. However, this is one way to cut down and give the budget the other way round a positive side.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U235	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U236	Thank you very much. My question also comes about savings in pension funds. This draft provides for twice the amount to be paid in 2023. In 2007 and further multiplied by the increase in the net value of the average shares between 2020 and 31 December 2022, i.e. during the period where those payments have been suspended. Hopefully, the economy will grow in the meantime. Do you not think that instead of austerity, this amendment could lead to an additional high cost for the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U237	Thank you, Annely, for the question. You have to look like the other side. Today, the state needs to find additional resources to pay out pensions, even if social taxes are reduced. On the other hand, it must be seen that there is no way to punish those people who are suspended from the second pillar by 4% for a period of time. It is very fair that during this period, when it is suspended, and at the same time the person himself has not stopped paying his 2%, then later, when the suspension of this payment is compensated, the average yield of pension funds in that period will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U238	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U239	Thank you. I'm going to be more specific, though, because I didn't quite understand the answer. Was it the case that Isamaa made two proposals: to cut the social security system and to cut public spending, but as a joint part of the coalition, it was found that the cut in this social security system will immediately be a priority and we will look at other things afterwards? Or was it different?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U240	Thank you. On the proposal of the Fatherland, it has been recorded at the meeting of the Government that the discussion and decision-making of the measures must take place no later than the second quarter. Speaking of the suspension of payments of the second pension pillar, the Riigikogu hall has only made a decision a little over a month ago that the payments of the second pension pillar are voluntary. It's disputed, it's in the Supreme Court. This decision will come in the fall and we do not know which one it will be. But this bill has also taken into account the dates and times set out in the Second Pillar Voluntary Payments Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U241	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U242	I have such a question of principle. When you explained both in the advertising campaign and in this Chamber of the Riigikogu why it is necessary to make the second pillar voluntary, you insisted that a person must have a free choice as to whether he is in the second pillar or not, that he should not be forced. Why are you now telling a person in advance that he must not pay the second pillar, along with his tax money, the payment that would guarantee him a more decent pension for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U243	Thank you. I'm afraid you haven't read the bill. There's no one out there forbids a human being to make that 2% payment. This 2% payment can be made by a person and the State will compensate for this 4% payment by multiplying the person's payment by two and adding an average return... That's what it says.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U244	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U245	I would like to make it clear once again that today the representative of the European Commission presented to the Economic Commission the very large volume of loan packages and assistance packages that the European Union is planning for countries. Given the volume of these loans and their aid, it can be assumed that the State will receive the loan at a relatively low percentage. And when a lot of money is put into the economy, the return on the funds is likely to rise. Do you really think it would be more reasonable for the country to suspend these payments and to pay a high rate of return later instead of borrowing cheaply? Is that really reasonable? Is this even a crisis measure or an austerity measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U246	Thank you. We have three possible options. One is what has usually happened, that the fund's productivity has been very poor for a long time, let's look at the years 2010, 2011, 2012. I don't know what kind of fund your pension was in, how good productivity was there. Where my money was, there was no productivity. There's a clause in the law that if it's negative, that minus isn't counted. In this sense, people win on their own. But eventually, every loan has to be repaid. It's not gonna get anywhere in the air. And today it has been decided that one way to implement the state budget is to suspend the state contribution of the second pension pillar for a certain period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U247	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U248	Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! It's nice that you're coming to conclusions about my knowledge. I understand this very well, I am not going to take this opportunity not to pay the second pillar while you offer it to me kindly. I have a different view of the cross than you do. But my question remains the same. You advocate that man is the smartest person to decide for himself how to invest in his future. However, in the meantime, you take away this 4%, you take this country into your hands, and then you tell him that now we invested it ourselves and we give you the part that you didn't invest according to our understanding of how much this investment was worth. This is not in line with the principle of freedom of choice that you advocate when you say that the second pillar should become voluntary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U249	Thank you. I'm so sorry if I put it all wrong! I just wanted to ask if you've read this amendment or this bill, nothing else. It is possible for a person to give up his 2% contribution at a time when the state does not make that payment. It's an opportunity. And all his taxes will automatically go to the first pillar of pension. I think that it was no longer fairer for this bill to be written together by a person after that to receive these 4%, plus the productivity of that time. If anyone can offer something better, so that the productivity of each fund is taken into account, please, but you must also consider that it is possible to make a change of fund three times a year. It wouldn't have been real.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U250	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U251	Thank you. In the meantime, I'd have liked to yell "Whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa." That was when you answered my benchmate during the question before last. Then you said the sentence that all loans had to be repaid. But I read again yesterday or the day before, that it was you who created a new concept: 'an unrefundable loan'. Now I was wondering when you said something wrong to us: either when you were speaking in the press the day before yesterday or yesterday, or now here. Or maybe both are possible, maybe it's possible to borrow unrefundable. Tell me how this trick works.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U252	That is, of course, a good question. If a journalist puts a title, the one who was asked to comment is to blame. It was asked very clearly whether any of the support measures were not to be returned. But the title came as it came. There's nothing to do. But you always have good questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U253	Thank you. No further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. Valdo Randpere, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U254	Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! First, Aivar, you just commended me, but now you've gone on the ground to chat to distract me. As consistent as you are when you talk about the issues of non-refundable loan! But I thought I'd start with good news. During the debate on the previous draft, Jürgen Ligi spoke and thought that Mart Järvik was still the Minister for Rural Affairs. Jürgen, Mart Järvik hasn't been Minister of Rural Affairs for a long time. That's good news. Let's go! First of all, I will explain to everyone, just in case no one has noticed, I have also spoken on this subject and have written that I am not in favour of very strict measures in the current situation. I very much like the way Sweden is resolving the situation. I am keeping my fingers crossed, and I can see that they have a very great opportunity to successfully emerge from this crisis. Their exit strategy has already been built into resolving the crisis, and this is what I miss a little bit here in Estonia. But even less, if I like these very strict measures to tackle this crisis, I like the government that pretends to solve this crisis and has confused the terms 'aid package', 'business project' and 'PR project'. What do I mean? We have in some ways such a sunny or sunny government. Well, not everyone's boys, but basically. If anything good happens anywhere, the members of the government will be present. We need a ride to the airport to pick up the masks, then they're here. If it turns out that there weren't masks but dusters, there's no one to see. The exact same thing was the health declaration that was first introduced and eliminated a week later. And there are more. Also, how the service was asked to be transferred to the ERR and then to publish a press release along with a picture that it was the minister who asked for it. But it actually involves a little more serious things. When we look at the previous bill and at it now, some things seem pretty good. But you start looking behind them, then what feels good is like a naked facade. We'll take helping companies through KredEx. Small businesses can now look at the terms and conditions on KredEx's website that allow them to take credit for coronavir, in principle, in the form of revolving loans. The conditions are that 1% must be paid for the conclusion of the contract and then it is a choice whether 4% if the loan is fully guaranteed or 6% if it is only a guarantee from the owner. I got into a TV debate last week with Indrek Neivelt. Why do I call him? It's precisely because you don't believe very many politicians here and outside the house, especially when they come from the Reform Party, but you do believe Indrek Neivelt. But we had a moving consensus with Indreku that these measures and these percentages and these conditions are completely unreasonable when it comes to helping small businesses over the period that is now. We have also given examples: Austria accounts for 1.5% of the same loan, Germany for 1%. In addition, according to Indrek Neivelt, the KredEx team is also completely underbuilt in the department where four people are currently employed, he believes that 140 should work to cope with the current situation. However, it seems that the government is not interested in it at all. Putting the bill on the table and bragging about how we're gonna help. But what happens after what happens? Who's gonna get help from this? You're going to the website of KredEx right now, and you'll see that they've written an apology. They have also realized that something has gone wrong, that suddenly you watched this television show, from which I know, and then they write that, in the current situation, we thought that we were not going to make a big difference here, we are going to take the old restrictions that the European Union has imposed on granting state aid, let them continue to apply and we will continue to act. Now, however, there is an emergency situation. Dear people! Do you not understand that there is an emergency situation and that the European Union no longer demands compliance with state aid requirements? A loan may be granted, especially if the State itself lends at a negative interest rate. But then the state does not have to take it as a business project to earn from the survival of small businesses. It's just, to put it mildly, bullshit, but to be honest, it's just pretending to help. I will now return to Sweden with a circle and compare Estonia with Sweden. What is the difference in Sweden between how this crisis is contained, managed and interacted with people? It's mostly a matter of specialists out there. The country's chief epidemiologist Anders Tegnell appears every day to people, telling us what the situation is, what the projections are, what the numbers are. Politicians keep themselves in the background. And when politicians do, one thing has happened in Sweden: the Social Democrats, who are a party of the Prime Minister, are not taking any major decisions now, without the whole Parliament being behind it, both the opposition and the coalition. They can do it. And the result is that the Swedish people believe in the strategy that has been chosen. They say they feel safe. And they have no problem, they have no doubt whether one thing is right or the other, whether the restrictions actually given in the indicative, advisory form should be respected. They do so because they believe in the skills, knowledge, and competence of their leaders. Those are more or less the right words. And another thing. Of course, Sweden has much to blame for what Urmas Reinsalu loves to blame me for. He was on that debate show, too. This reproach is that I am in favour of the principle of natural selection. When I say that measures should be weaker, it is like standing in front of natural selection, that in that case people die. But what makes the political choice that we are now doing better? This is also the choice we made with the previous draft, with which we have basically locked up the conventional health system. In Estonia, 43 to 44 people die every day under normal conditions. Whether someone has calculated or is going to calculate how much more of these people will be now that they are dying from their 'normal' diseases because we are not giving health care money to deal with them. Corona virus is not the only trouble in the world, and it is certainly not the only thing the healthcare system should be dealing with right now. And we shouldn't underfinance this conventional health system any more, he already has. Thank you. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U255	Ivar Padar, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U256	Ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to save you time and air and just a few words about both of the drafts that we are currently dealing with. This is also because one of my fellow Members spoke about and condemned the austerity measures taken ten years ago when reading the previous draft. Personally, I know the guy who came up here three times to read out the negative budget, and I say that the cutbacks were the best that could have been done in this situation. Otherwise, we would hardly remember the Estonian kroon here with such generosity. And in this sense, I would argue that if today's extraordinary draft highlights parallels between the decisions of the second pillar at the time and the current decisions of the second pillar, it is not a criminal offence. At that time there was a very clear reason for this: cost savings to keep the Estonian kroon. Speaking of the previous draft, the biggest problem is that there is no limit to public spending. This should be done quickly and clearly enough. In today's case, to make an additional budget in such a way that there is no limit to expenditure, this is the wrong approach. When it comes to this draft concerning amendments to the laws relating to the additional budget, we have made one proposal concerning... In fact, we have made a number of good amendments, but one of which I am talking about is support for rural and agriculture and the Rural Promotion Foundation. EUR 200 million is a lot of money. It is precisely 200 million operations that are planned through the Rural Promotion Foundation and that means a great deal of responsibility for this organisation. The history of this organization is very long. It became a common organisation 20 years ago, and I was the Minister of Agriculture when it became a great common organisation. During different governments and at different times it has been that yes, governments are changing, one part of the Council is political and changing, but the other part is clearly non-political. The representatives of the agricultural organisations have always been in the Council. Before the big changes a year ago, the farmers' Confederation, the Chamber of Commerce and the Food Industry Association were represented there. And there was also an expert at the Ministry of Finance. Thus, the side of specialists and organizations was very strongly represented. I do not want to say that there are no experts or other intelligent people in the current Council, from which organisations have been expelled. They do, but there are also people who might doubt that they will be able to overcome this issue. It is quite clear that good practice should be restored so that all important agricultural-related organisations are represented within the Council in an organisation that takes decisions of such importance as the Rural Promotion Foundation. This is very important now, and it is strange that it should, like, be included in the law, so far, it just acted as good practice. That was the deal, and that was the deal. I very much ask to support our proposal to regulate who will be members of the Council of the Foundation for Rural Development in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U257	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U258	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a bill that has a lot of substantive issues. And I feel most displeased and saddened because the procedure in the Commission was poor, to say so. And it was bad for the following reasons. First of all, the coalition ambassadors weren't interested at all. At all! They seemed to have it all figured out. The most confusing things were also clear, the things that are now the second point of the Ministry, which submitted proposals, partly could not explain. That's what I don't understand. I understand that there are situations where there really is a need to deal with cluster proposals and to deal with them quickly. It's probably one of those situations. But in that case, everyone has to do a substantial job to really get a better law together. I am not convinced that this is now the best we can get. I am not even talking about our party's amendments, which were not supported. I'm talking about there's a chance there's trouble in there. That's because there was no discussion, no discussion, because there were no ministerial representatives who could explain why one thing or another is being done, what one thing or another is going to cost. It wasn't there. This is very bad practice. Only this morning was the Commission meeting, where some issues were clarified. Those where, on Thursday after the Commission, it really felt like what it was now. There were officials who said they didn't know, couldn't explain. It was chased to see if anyone could explain why it was so, not different, but never found. Found this morning. Today we started explaining and we found out a place that might need to be changed. But, unfortunately, this is a draft that could no longer be amended in the Commission, because the documents were the second reading in the Chamber, no more amendments can be tabled. This should not be the case. You shouldn't do this, you shouldn't do things like this! You don't have to stick things in the bill that look like ugly fun, that's what we want now. It wouldn't be such a mess if there really was a discussion about questions being asked, if it were to be seen that behind the questions posed by the opposition is not maliciousness, but a sincere desire to find the best solution. Unfortunately, at the moment, it is the feeling that this is the way the coalition looks to the opposition. Against this background, the talk that solving the crisis, finding the best measures for it is our common concern, sounds hollow. Yes, we may have different ideas for specific solutions, but let us discuss, let us listen, let us ask questions. If you really had everything clear, I will now turn to the members of my committee who are in the coalition, then suddenly you would have taken the trouble and explained it to us who we are in opposition. But you didn't. I can't tell if you weren't aware or wanting to tell us, or if you were aware and wanted to keep us in the dark. Maybe you didn't know the questions about the bill, but you didn't care about them. That's no way to work. Dear coalition ambassadors, please also work in the Commission. And I will say this very seriously in the context of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U259	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U260	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! This draft, which we are currently discussing with you, should contribute to mitigating the specific situation and its consequences as a result of the pandemic spread of the corona virus. Unfortunately, it has to be said that this draft itself, like the virus, has unnoticed obsessions with someone who has nothing to do with solving the current health and economic crisis. The Social Democrats considered it possible that some those in charge of government would not be able to avoid the temptation to use the crisis that arose to implement their electoral promises. And still without discussion and constructive criticism. That is why we called on the Prime Minister early on to refrain from disparate choices in society and to present only urgent changes relating to the resolution of the crisis to our debate. However, here we see the suspension of the contributions to the re-retirement pension. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the point? The credibility of the country continues to be high and we have the opportunity to borrow money from the money markets, so why do we have to put the hand in the purse of future pensioners? Praxis analyst Magnus Piirits analysed the suspension of the contributions from the second pillar in 2009 and its impact on the size of the assets collected by the future pensioner. What we had thought turned out to be clear: at most, just over 17% of the pensioner's assets would have increased if the contributions had not been suspended during the crisis or subsequently increased. The person who suspended the contributions during the crisis and for whom the State did not make the contributions did not collect some EUR 2 000 over these years. Of this amount, approximately EUR 1400 made up of contributions by people and the state, while about EUR 600 remained unearned on the money market. Today, for example, a completely arbitrary choice has been made, but an appropriate example of a Tallink share is slightly more than a third cheaper than a year ago. If we have a plan to save this important Estonian company for us, and in general saving Estonian companies at a critical time is certainly a wise idea, wouldn't it make sense to have pension funds invest in the shares of this company in order to become part of the recovery of the market after the crisis? Stopping contributions to stock exchanges at a low level is not the best decision to invest. This is a decision that undermines the profitability of our pension funds, and it is therefore particularly ironic that this plan is brought before us by those who, in their words, worry about the low profitability of Estonian pension funds compared to similar funds in other countries. It seems just as reasonable and necessary to provide a patient with respiratory insufficiency with an extra oxygen instead of an adrift. By the way, the Social Democrats have made one more proposal to prevent possible concerns in the future, and Ivari Padar has already talked about this. We know that the distribution of money is often a source of trouble, and the distribution of large money can cause particularly serious trouble. Today, there are people on the Council of the Foundation for Rural Development whose activities so far have raised questions, to say the least. At the same time, it is the institution that is going through a great deal of money, and the decisions of the additional budget will move through this even greater money. That is why we believe that there should certainly be representatives of dignified agricultural organisations alongside the representative of the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for Finance in this Council. Let's prevent these problems that are preventable! I call on you to vote in favour of the Socialist Amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U261	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U262	Thank you. My name sounded, and I was insulted. Valdo Randpere thought I didn't know who the Minister of Agriculture was. In fact, I know who the Minister of Agriculture is, I just wanted to highlight Mart Järvik's lifework and his spirit. He's got a lot of money under his belly again as a member of the MES Council. And I also support the proposal by the sots, I do not know that it is formalised right now, that such people should not be in the Council, or at least not alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U263	Valdo Randpere. And then we'll finish this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U264	I want to fix Jürgen again. Now he was able to say it was the Minister of Agriculture. Since 2015 the Minister of Rural Affairs is in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U265	Everything! The negotiations have been concluded and we will move on to the revision of the amendments. Amendment 1, tabled by the Reform Party Group, lead committee: to be disregarded. Echo Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U266	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U267	This amendment will be voted on. I shall put to the vote the draft amendment 169. This is the first amendment tabled by the Reform Party Group. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this amendment, 51 against. The amendment was not supported. The second amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Nobody calls for a vote. The third amendment, which has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Nobody calls for a vote. The four amendments are from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and have been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Nobody calls for a vote. The fifth amendment is also from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the opinion of the commission: take full account. Nobody calls for a vote. Sixth amendment from the Group of the Reform Party, lead committee: to be disregarded. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U268	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U269	I shall put this amendment to the vote. Do they agree that I won't let a call to the hall? So I shall therefore vote on the sixth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Please take a stand and vote. There were 36 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this amendment, against 52. The amendment was not supported. The seventh amendment, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the lead committee, has rejected it. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U270	I would certainly ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U271	I shall put the seventh amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this amendment, against 52. The amendment was not supported. The eighth amendment, tabled by Mrs Sikkut, has been rejected by the commission. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U272	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U273	I shall put the eighth amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. This amendment was supported by 33 members of the Riigikogu, 52 against. The amendment was not supported. The ninth amendment, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The 10th amendment is made by the Committee on Culture and the lead committee has asked for it to be fully taken into account. Amendment 11, again from the Committee on Culture, the lead committee has proposed that this be fully taken into account. Amendment 12, from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, opinion of the commission: disregard. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U274	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U275	I shall put the 12th amendment to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this amendment, 51 against. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 13, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. Amendment 14 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 15, from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, lead committee: take full account. No vote shall be required. Amendment 16, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 17 from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, Steering Committee: take full account. Amendment 18 from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee, has considered it necessary to take full account of this. Amendment 19, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, proposal from the commission: take full account. Amendment 20, from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, commission: disregard. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U276	I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U277	I shall put the 20th amendment to the vote, please take a position and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, against 52. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 21, authors The Estonian Centre Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group and the Isamaa Group. This is a proposal that has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 22, proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs: take full account. And Amendment 23, this is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of this. The amendments have been examined and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 169. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U278	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the fourth item. To this end, the Government of the Republic has initiated the first reading of the Act amending the Law on atmospheric air protection and the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. The rapporteur is Rene Kokk, Minister of the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U279	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection and excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Ministry of the Environment. Its main objective is to give more flexibility to companies active in the fuel market to achieve environmental objectives this year. In the past, fuel suppliers were obliged to meet their greenhouse gas emission reduction target on a monthly basis, and it is now possible to meet it on a semi-annual basis. As a result, price pressure will decrease as biofuels prices will depend on seson and if suppliers are able to reduce more greenhouse gases with cheaper biofuels during the summer, savings can be achieved during the winter period when biofuel prices are higher. A very important change can be considered to be that fuels and energy delivered to the transport sector will continue to be subject to an equivalent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the future. From 1 January 2021, suppliers will be able to meet these targets on an annual basis, which in turn will provide additional flexibility and will have a healing effect on business freedom and competition in the fuel market. It is important to ensure that greenhouse gas emission reductions are consistent and allow each company to develop a more long-term appropriate strategy for itself. By means of the draft, we will remedy the deficiency that did not allow suppliers of gaseous fuels and electricity to participate in the fuel market because they did not qualify under the definition of supplier. We have expanded this concept, and we have also created the assumption that a company that makes hydrogen available can join the fuel market. Integrating environmentally friendly fuels into the fuel market will have a positive impact in terms of better ambient air and combating climate change. As a result of the change, five to six companies should be added to the fuel market. In addition, we are supplementing the terminology of the fuel market by providing a definition of gas fuel, electricity, hydrogen and biomass fuel. The latter comes from the new Renewable Energy Directive 2018/2001/EU. The draft also amends the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, and changes there are due, on the one hand, to a slight failure of legislation and, on the other hand, to innovations in the qualification of fuels. It was necessary to specify the definition of oil shale fuel oil in order to exclude the blending of oil from the chip of the tire with oil shale fuel oil. The purpose of the amendment of the earlier definition of oil shale fuel oil was to allow the use of the tyre shake in the production process with oil shale and this would be a solution for the elimination of the old tyres. The change in the definition of oil shale fuel oil was also due to a new laboratory method to determine the content of aromatic compounds in oils. As a result, fuel made from tyre chip and oil shale was classified under the new Combined Nomenclature code and the definition of oil shale fuel oil has also been supplemented in that Combined Nomenclature code. Although the previous amendment has already analysed all the effects in the context of these amendments, I would point out once again that this amendment also allows us to collect and to deserve old tyres in Estonia. The draft also lays down higher fines. If suppliers have not met their environmental targets in time, if the supplier has not been able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to the required extent by the end of the first half of the year, the maximum fine shall be EUR 5 million. This penalty rate will enter into force on 1 July 2020, as the provisions of the Penal Code on the increased penalty rate will be enforced by then. In the case of annual execution, the maximum fine shall be EUR 10 million and shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. The level of fines has been determined on the basis of two very important principles. Firstly, the crime must not be paid off and, under the Fuel Quality Directive, the sanction must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. In addition, there are other amendments to the draft, which are technical in nature and guarantee legal clarity, but do not have both environmental and economic impact, and it is therefore not appropriate to single out them separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U280	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U281	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm getting confused. I'm reading this bill, and here's the content of the bill and the comparison analysis. I will look at § 1 (6) where it is clear that gaseous fuel is no longer a biofuel, biofuel is only a liquid fuel produced from biomass. On the next line, I will see that wood waste biomethane and wood pellets and chips are biomass fuel. Can you make it clear that one of the objectives of this bill is to formulate definitions of biomass fuel and biofuels? Can you tell us what we're really gonna do here besides start burning tires in the oven? I have to admit, I'm reading, and every line is kind of in conflict with the next line. I may be misunderstood, but why don't you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U282	Thank you. We're not going to burn the tires in the oven. I'll get that right away. It just gives us a chance to add a certain percentage of tyres. When oil shale oil is produced in the exhaust process, a certain percentage is added so that it can be used for the production of oil. That's one thing. But I'm about to see... I think I'm gonna write this question down and then we're gonna answer it exactly. I'll have the officials answer the exact question, I'll send an answer to that question later.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U283	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U284	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This draft amends the concept of supplier, aims to make reporting mandatory also for companies that make available electricity, gaseous fuels and hydrogen used in transport. You mentioned in your report that it concerns six companies in Estonia. Would you just specify, in terms of general information, how many of these produce hydrogen?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U285	Thank you. Today, unfortunately, there are none of the hydrogen producing companies, but with this regulation we are creating an opportunity that was not in the law currently in force in case such a company arises. For this reason, the Ministry of the Environment also works so that hydrogen can still be used as one of the new fuel types in Estonia. This legislative amendment gives us the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U286	Thank you, Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Can I have the co-rapporteur in the speaker's chair, please? The co-rapporteur is Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U287	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed this draft at its meeting on 16 March. At that time, the Minister was unable to present the draft to us and the head of the Environment Department's ambient air and radiation department, Heidi Koger, presented the draft. The Minister gave a very good overview of the contents of the draft, and I am not going to repeat it. Some questions also arose in the Commission regarding oil shale, why we are changing this definition, as well as the level of fines. We received exhaustive answers. The fact that the fine rates are rising is not, in itself, quite the case. If, in the past, there was the possibility of applying fines every month, then now it can be done twice a year, and these new fines are sums of earlier months that can be asked at the same time. There's a little bit of a rise there, too. The Committee on the Environment decided by consensus to close the first reading of the draft and to put it on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U288	Thank you. Peter Ernits, a question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U289	Good manager! Good waitress! It was a matter of definitions, but I do not remember such a debate in the committee. Eesti Energia, who will burn these tires, has proposed its definition of oil shale fuel oil. I'm not going to read it here, but up to 30% by mass, it could have a tire bump. But the coordination table shows that the Ministry of the Environment developed a new definition in cooperation. Can you briefly say in Estonian how the definition of oil shale fuel oil in ministries and customs is different from that of Eesti Energia, who actually brews this oil from the tire chip?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U290	Thank you. The definition of oil shale oil was changed a long time ago, it was last year or the year before. The current change adds a code to this definition, a numerical value, to what kind of product it is. That's how it fits into the right places in the reports.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U291	Thank you very much, fellow waitress. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? First reading, the participants in the negotiations are representatives of the political groups, if desired. No call request. We therefore have the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 159. First reading is over. The deadline for tabling amendments shall be 27 April at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-13_U292	And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to perform in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Opening a free microphone. You don't want to use a free microphone. Today's trial is over. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 19.47 p.m.
