ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our three-day briefing. And as usual, first the presence check. 21 members of the Riigikogu are present, 80 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Finance Martin Helme and Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab. And as we customarily do, first the members of the registered Riigikogu can ask the question. They are also entitled to an additional question and another question may be asked from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U2	The first question can be asked by Indrek Saar and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U3	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! As a Social Democrat, I must say that I very much like diversity, both cultural diversity and, for example, natural diversity, which I consider very important. But the diversity of government messages, especially in a crisis situation, is very questionable. The government has been able to stand out with it. It is certainly not the opposition alone who has been concerned about what the government is still trying to say, how we should behave. In resolving the current health crisis, members of the government have constantly taken different positions and have also been vigorously communicating them. It is recalled, for example, how the debate was about when schools are being opened and whether they are being opened and whether the government has actually decided something. The fact that Jaak Aab, the Minister in Question Time, announced that masks should be compulsory, but then it turned out that the government had no intention of making them compulsory and that there was still talk of a social norm. As Prime Minister, do you intend to do something to make the communication of the government clearer for society? Do you have any specific activities planned? Are you talking to your colleagues? Or are there any errors in strategic communication? During this crisis, have you made any observations that you certainly intend to take into account in order to make the government's messages clearer?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for that question. I'll start like you do. I like diversity, too. Let's look at the nature of Estonia, very diverse, different seasons. Such a colorful life must be wonderful. So I think we agree on that. Unfortunately, your introduction does not entirely match the criticisms you have made. You say you want diversity. But diversity also means a plurality of opinions, which I think means freedom of expression. But you reprimand that you see, in the government, not everyone talks just one thing. I do not know where you will produce this parallel, perhaps from your party, as you did in front of Indrek Saar, so all nine members of the group are left. Exactly the same! Honestly, I don't think it makes any sense that we should talk like a record about what the chairman of a party or the head of government is saying. Diversity, the multiplicity of opinions, is the strength that ultimately leads to the goal, leading in the right direction. Now, the positions of the government have been very specific, very coherent and very clear. If we look at government decisions, we have made very specific decisions. We have very specific positions, very specific positions. You're arguing there's no decision about schools. I think the government decided this, if I'm not mistaken, on 9 April, which will happen on 15 May. It was very difficult to predict what would happen in five weeks' time. And once again, the government, led by the Minister for Education and Science, sent a very clear message to the educational landscape, I think. If the outbreak allows for relief, education will begin to recover on 15 May. And starting to recover mainly in the final classes: exams, independent work or personal classes with teachers, helping out. But, of course, school life doesn't regenerate in the traditional key. But this message was very much needed by the graduates at the time, and this very specific message was given. So much of the masks that masks have given rise to very many discussions at the government table, including at the scientific council. The decision is that masks are, as you say, recommended, a social norm, yes, that is what I have said. But everyone decides whether or not to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U5	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I really want to understand these messages more clearly. I cannot agree, one hundred percent, that all the messages that have come from the government have been very clear and understandable. This is also demonstrated by what people have actually done by following these messages. This also concerned 2 + 2 rules, etc. But I've also been approached by people. One recent news has been that top athletes can start training again under certain conditions. Some people have asked what is meant by top sports, is there such a definition? Could you explain to the public what this message means? What is the basis for this regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U7	Thank you for your question. I don't know, first of all, the 2 plus 2 rule you mentioned. I mean, in general, we do research every week on how different restrictions in society have been adopted. It's clear that now we're talking more about relief, we're in the relief phase. At the same time, I have to say that these restrictions have still been adopted clearly positively by a very large majority of Estonian society. People have filled them, they have taken them into account. This has also been demonstrated by the feedback received from the studies. Now, rule 2 + 2. Saturday I went to the construction store in Pärnu and went to last weekend. Those rules were followed very well. I have to compliment the shopkeeper. The release took place specifically, at least in one of the construction stores. On the basis of square meters, the number of people allowed to be in the store was calculated and the external order was based on this 2 + 2 rule. At the beginning of the week, when I came to work here in the Riigikogu, I came by a company right here on Toompea. There was a queue, and they also followed the 2+2 rule. So, in my opinion, it has, however, been generally accepted very specifically and very well and has been based on it. And actually, I think it's been one, if you don't mind me saying, gold keys, that we've reached the cure phase of the virus. We have still managed to ensure that there has been no very big outbreak in Estonia, thank God, so far. And this has been largely due to the responsible approach of our people. Now, you asked about sports. The answer is very simple. Adult teams can start, can already operate under both indoor and outdoor conditions today. And whoever's part of the adult team, who's a candidate for this team, should regulate each sub-unit itself. The government doesn't say exactly who these women and men or girls and young men are. In addition to sport, a very specific decision was made on 2 May, which was last week's Saturday. External gyms could also be opened and could begin to gather for trainings, regardless of age, if there is a group or group of ten and the rule of 2 + 2.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U8	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! However, I said that diversity is a great thing, but clear messages are needed in crisis communication. If the members of the government allow themselves different angles of approach during the debate, it is very nice, but somehow there has been a lot of confusion as a result. As your Prime Minister and Head of Emergency, you said at a government press conference on 23 April that 2 + 2 rules can be freely used in cinemas and concert halls. It meant they're about to open something up. But four days later, the curating Minister of Culture said that theatres and also cinemas probably have to take into account that nothing would happen before autumn. These are mixed messages. That's just one example. But let's come to this week's fresh sayings. Rail Baltic is a very important topic for society, which, in the context of the crisis, is probably a very important source of economic turnover and a potential source of jobs. Mart Helme announced a few days ago that the EKRE put Rail Baltic project on hold. Period. Taavi Aas said that Helme stood as firmly as the Western Front of Antanti in the European Union in the distribution of money for the new period for Rail Baltic. Martin Helme reported that Taavi Aas was performing with a flying phrase, but he's wrong. 'I will make sure that the money of the European Union does not go to Rail Baltic. ' And Jüri Ratas speaks of cats and mice, but he also says: 'My government and all the ministers involved are working for the completion of Rail Baltic, as clearly agreed at the time of the coalition. ' Since Martin Helme is also in this Chamber, perhaps together you could explain to us what this Rail Baltic government thinks will happen. Are you working for it or against it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U10	Thank you for this question. First, I will start with crisis communication. I will stick to the answer I said to Mr Urmas Kruus. Crisis communication has, in this very difficult situation, been very clear and concrete in a very novel situation for the whole world. Let us take the key messages of this crisis communication that has been: stay at home, avoid close contacts, wash your hands! Today we say stay healthy, avoid close contacts, wash your hands. Very specific and, in my opinion, very coherent messages. And the Estonian society has said in return that it understands them, that it proceeds from them and that it considers them important. Of course, over time these restrictions and support for restrictions have started to decrease, this cannot be denied, and support for mitigation has started to increase. But I say once again that I also ask the members of the Riigikogu: please we understand what situation we are in. We're not in any normal situation that comes in the spring. This situation is still very novel for everyone, for the whole world. Now, you said I said on April 23rd, if I'm not mistaken, that 2+2 movies are allowed. Or did I misunderstand you? I really don't remember saying such a thing as going to two plus two movies could be allowed. If we're talking about a principle, if you ever open a movie, there could be some special conditions. That's what I think. And at some point, we're gonna have to open the movies. But I'm gonna check this place out, I don't know what kind of press conference you had in mind. Now Rail Baltic. It is no secret that last spring, when the coalition was made by a government partner, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, expressed his scepticism, expressed his support for Rail Baltic. It's known, it's known in society, it's publicly known. Coalition negotiations are always the point of achieving some kind of compromise and we have reached a compromise. The compromise is that Rail Baltic will be moved forward if the basic principle of funding 81/19 is correct. I have withdrawn the Rail Baltic agreement ratified by the Riigikogu, which basically says the same thing If this changes, we have to come back to this project. And that's still true. Of course, I will come to the Riigikogu immediately if these percentages are to change greatly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U12	Next, Kaja Kallas asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U13	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! The government has proposed dates to alleviate the restrictions, and that is great. At first, you said there weren't any dates. But that's it. Now, however, this deregulation plan raises questions. The university generally teaches, at least for law students, that there is no point in laying down rules that go against either the laws of nature or the general public perception. Those rules will never work. When we talk about restrictions in Saaremaa, the situation is actually good in Saaremaa and there have been virtually no infected on other islands. However, moving there and away from there is still limited. There is a rule that you can move there if, according to the population register, your main residence or the so-called second residence is located on the island. All this must be controlled by the Police and Border Guard Board. Now there is a situation where the country tends to go in such a way that it makes a fool of itself in people's eyes, because people travel to islands who register an "additional address" there. There has been a situation where over 500 people in Saaremaa, 150 people in Muhuse, 300 people in Hiiumaa, some of them in Kõpu lighthouse, have registered in the last week. Would it not be wise to end this restriction? It simply doesn't work, and it just creates additional work for the Police and Border Guard Board. They are certainly more needed elsewhere, it is a misuse of resources. Can we put an end to this restriction?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U14	Thank you for this question. I've also been a law student, and I'm sure I know that saying, where there are two lawyers, there are three different opinions. I think that's the way it's supposed to be to find the best solution to these three. Now for the island siege. Point one: All islands have at one point asked to be closed. This has been requested by letters to me or the government from all the crisis committees in the islands. And these are the letters that we followed. You know that I have been very strongly involved in both opposition and coalition in the faith of local governments. I have very much wanted the municipality and the state to be partners. And that's what I'm gonna say with all my sincerity. The situation in Saaremaa was difficult, but today the situation in Saaremaa is, as you say, a good one. One might even say encouragingly that the trick may be even better than the good one. Really, they've done a very good job. You are also right that very many islands have shown a result where there is no infection at all. On the 4th of May, or Monday of this week, for those who have a register-based log-in on the islands, the possibility of driving freely back and forth as much as the heart would like, as far as they wanted. Yes, as you rightly said, this possibility is when there is an official entry and another one with this extra address. On this basis, the PBGB, the Police and Border Guard Board can make a very simple, very specific selection process between people who have a check-in and who do not. It's been good for the PBA. You're saying there's been a lot of more signings. Yeah, I'm aware of that. As you say, if there's a check-in, you can drive. If there's no sign-in, you can't drive. I think the point of your question is why this relief or why this restriction will not be lifted before 18 May. I have been negotiating with all the islands, I am talking about Vormsi, Hiiumaa, Muhumaa, Saaremaa, Kihnu and Ruhnu. And this has been their common position, one might even say, their request that on 4 May, a register-based migration could be opened up forward and backwards and on 18 May, to open the islands completely. This request must be taken into account. In the case of Saaremaa, it must also be taken into account that the hospital needs cleaning. When I spoke to Dr. Arkadi Popov on Monday this week, he said that the job wasn't done yet. This is also an important aspect.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U15	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U16	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you about the restrictions. A large number of people live in Tallinn and many also have business in Tallinn. It stands out that the government is making a plan, but your party partner, Mayor of Tallinn, Mikhail Kõlvart, says that this is not a good plan. He whistles on this plan and makes a whole other plan. Indrek Saar asked about clear messages earlier, and you gave an example of teaching arrangements. The government has said that teaching in smaller groups in schools could be restored from 15 May. The mayor of Tallinn said that the schools in Tallinn will remain in distance education, the children will not go to school. Period. There are other shifts in the government's plan and Tallinn's plan. The question is this: wouldn't it make more sense for you to coordinate and negotiate your plans in advance with the mayor of Tallinn, Mikhail Kõlvart, your party partner, so that there is no such cacophony where the mayor is essentially whistling at government orders?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U17	Thank you. You are a very good politician and a credit for this to you! First of all, if we negotiate, why only Tallinn? I think that I have negotiated with more than 40 municipalities in this crisis situation and I intend to continue with it today, for example. I consider it very important how the rules have been respected, how much more needy people have come to the doors of the municipalities during the Coronavirus, how the municipalities feel about the additional budget adopted by the Riigikogu, whether it gives them relief or does not give them relief, how the care homes are and how the education is. I have to say that of these 40 municipalities, one can safely say, 39 or, perhaps 38, let's leave a little bit of a kick in just to understand what's going on in the educational landscape since 15 May. So, basically, all the municipalities have figured it out. The Government of the Republic, of course, makes its decisions independently. And I've also spoken to the mayor of Tallinn about the same decision you made that no learning will be opened on 15 May. The mayor of Tallinn said he didn't mean it that way. The seniors who have to take the exams, of course, can do it. Students with whom you need to do individual work.. schools can do so. You can do detention lessons. Perhaps some wish to have a meeting with their parents, and they can do so. We must consider that the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, has said that a thousand students have disappeared from the Estonian teaching system during the Corona virus. They must be found, and they must certainly be actively worked on. And I know that these parts of the work are also in Tallinn's plans. The way every school, every local government sets these things up is the decision of schoolkeepers and school management. I believe it's a joint decision of the director, the headmaster and the teachers, the school family. Hit all schools in Estonia with one table, one pattern, but this is not real. The size of schools is different already. But this is that teaching in normal form 2019/2020. There is no recovery at the end of the academic year; it has been clear to everyone since the beginning. And even if the state says that, for example, outdoor gyms can be opened, our restrictions are no longer imposed, it is understandable that the final decisions are made by local authorities whether they want to do so or not. And as far as Tallinn is concerned, we must also take into account that the Health Board says that infection has not yet been controlled in Tallinn and therefore we must be very careful. That's what Ester Öpik, Head of the Northern Regional Department of the Health Board, said. Yeah, well, the epidemiological situations are different.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U18	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U19	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Prime Minister! On 18 May, the special situation will end in this form, of course conditionally, unless there is a substantial change. Understood! If the emergency situation is no longer in force, this means that the emergency arrangements are no longer in force. However, we all understand that further guidance is needed for the population, for entrepreneurs, for schools, or for everyone. My question is without criticism, I would just like to understand what the limitations that are currently being considered are. What are the plans for implementing local authorities or national guidelines, restrictions, restrictions? Between what are we considering? What situation can we possibly face from May 18th?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U20	Thank you. The emergency decision has been taken at the moment. On May 18th, there will be no more emergency, as you said. You're saying that there must be one condition: the virus outbreak doesn't indicate the path of deterioration, doesn't show the slope again. I agree with you. But there's another difference. The government is always entitled to consider this decision and to prolong the emergency situation. In front of you today in Question Time, I assure you that I will do everything I can to prevent us from prolonging the emergency situation. Now, your question is also very directly linked to what is the legal basis, what is the wishes and what are the options. I think we should seriously consider that 2 + 2 rules remain in force after 18 May. I'm not talking about recommended rules right now, I'm talking about specific rules that are to be complied with. And one of these is definitely the 2 plus 2 rule. Public events will certainly remain limited. We have said that there will be no graduations at the end of this academic year. I think that the reopening of cinemas and theatres, for example, will certainly be delayed. If you ask if this is going to happen before 24:00 on May 17th, I think it would be very difficult to do so. And the border issues will definitely remain. This morning there was a very busy and serious meeting between the three Baltic Prime Ministers, two days ago with the Finnish Prime Minister. But I think that when we talk about our external borders, our borders with, for example, the Russian Federation, certain differences should still apply in relation to coronavir. Now, the question is this: I will go on, if you will allow me, with your question, whether we will have this basis when the emergency situation no longer exists, to impose restrictions. I think that is a very legitimate question. Here I am again asking for constructive help from the Riigikogu plenary. I have information that the Committee on Social Affairs decided at its session last week that, at today's session, on 6 May, a draft law will be under discussion, which will give more strength to the Health Board in the current context, but will also give some greater opportunities to the government. It is clear that the national legal approach, whether or not it can be done, is 50: 50 and legal clarity is needed on this matter. I apologise to the President of the Riigikogu and the entire Riigikogu for going over time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U22	Today's question No 3 is asked by Mr Padar and answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U23	Thank you, Minister. It is very likely and it is expected that this year you will come to the Riigikogu with an additional budget. It can be assumed that one of the elements of the supplementary budget is taxes and tax changes. I have this question for you: could you open up for us a little bit, what possible proposals are planned for tax changes? But the thing that interests me most is the VAT on food. Are there any changes planned to reduce the value added tax (VAT) on foodstuffs? As you know very well, up to 5% of this agreement exists within the framework of the European Union, but countries have used this opportunity very differently. What are your current positions? What can be the focus on in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U24	Thank you. I must first say that I do not know where you take the assumption that we are going to make another supplementary budget. If I look at the current unemployment figures, the tax receipts figures, the various other economic indicators, or the statistics we have now received, say, since the crisis broke out, I must recognise the analysts of the Ministry of Finance: the forecasts on which we have built up or on which our additional budget for 2020, adopted very recently in this Chamber, are in line with what has actually happened in the last two months. If there are no very serious changes in the external environment, I do not see the need for a second additional budget during this year as it stands. That's point 1. I'm making a big reservation here, of course. It may happen that an epidemic is re-emerging inside Estonia, something could happen in the external environment, something could happen in the banking sector, all of these things could happen. No one could predict such an oil price movement, even after the COVID-19 crisis had begun. But the current numbers match the forecast, and that means I don't see the need for a new extra budget today. Of course, there may be a new need for an additional budget. But regardless of whether we make an additional budget or not, if we start drawing up a budget for 2021, we will have the opportunity to review all sources of revenue and, of course, we will always review the costs. Taxes are usually part of this discussion. You know that lowering VAT on food is one of those issues that has been on the table for a very long time as a proposal. This is undoubtedly an idea that I personally very much support, which is very sympathetic to me, but the'realisation' of this is always hindered by the question of how to cover the unrevenue of this move. These are discussions that can always be discussed with the budget. At the moment, I cannot say that we have discussed this in depth in the government. I can only mark my attitude or our party's attitude: it is positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U25	Ivari Padar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U26	Thank you. I am also relying on what is in your own rural programme: you are in favour of reducing VAT on food. And a few months ago, when there was a radio show, when you were talking about the gardening industry, you were very warmly supportive that the VAT reduction should take place. That is why I have such a question or a proposal for you concerning the gardening sector and the availability of labour there. Would it not be reasonable, however, to base itself on Latvian practice where the value added tax on gardening products has been reduced? In the case of horticulture, the issue of VAT reductions could be taken quickly. I think that this would be one way of stabilising the market situation in this area. But it is undeniable that there are a lot of pros and cons in this whole thing. In general, I have always been very sceptical about reducing the value added tax (VAT) on food, but at the moment I still consider it relatively reasonable in certain areas. As has been the case in Latvia, it has helped to alleviate the black market situation, it has legalised companies. That is my question: shouldn't earlier decisions be made in some areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U27	I am very pleased that our party's programme is read thoroughly. This is the result of a thorough work and a very meaningful programme, which unfortunately has not become one of the government's action programmes. It was behind the election results. But that's right, we've supported it. Now, when we talk about the Latvian parallel, the general argument against it is usually that the tax reduction does not reach the consumer price. But it doesn't always have to come. Let's say, if we want to lower VAT, then the objection is always that its benefits will be put in the merchant's pockets by a merchant or manufacturer. But if that happens, if that money hasn't stayed in the air, then it's gone to support the sector. This may not at all be the wrong goal or the wrong result. Of course, it has to be said that Estonia has much better tax treatment than Latvia, tax payments are better, the shadow economy is smaller. Therefore, perhaps the same arguments that have existed in Latvia are not so compelling in Estonia. We may have other reasons or other arguments or other objectives that we want to achieve and we could achieve with the same move, but the fight against the shadow economy is not such an important argument for us. To this whole discussion, I would also like to say that neither I nor the current government have such inflexible dogma that tax distinctions are bad things. I do not think that we should have such a hunch that we are not considering tax differences either by sector or by sector at all. If this is a way to improve the competitiveness of Estonian companies or improve the purchasing capacity of Estonian people, and if it is compatible with the general budget, I will in any case be very open and supportive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U28	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U29	Thank you. I am at times pleased with your answers. What you said about Latvia and Estonia's tax discipline was quite adequate. And secondly, the fact that you have a reservation or what that word was about an extra budget. Well, that's a reasonable idea. But I suggest you be careful about these projections right now. Not that I would like to replace them myself, but there is a striking pattern in tax collection that consumption taxes fall away very quickly when the crisis comes, but labour taxes are inert. In this sense, we have an asset to cheer up, we do not know how the labour market is going to behave and these other taxes will come. Now, the VAT on food. This is actually a very debated subject. It is known how these humiliations have arisen. But are you considering anything else that could help people and businesses? Are you considering any of these, say, the need to support some sectors or the sociological effects of the fall in support? Do you have any argument as a consumer who wins what kind of risk group, and what are the proportions of the upper and lower decile, for example, when it comes to the volume of food consumption? And have you also examined how card payments, for example, have changed? As a hint, consumption is still in the food sector. This is a sector where this natural support for the economy still exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U30	Thank you. Thanks for the compliment. We've been looking at the card payments. I would like to draw the attention of both the public and the members of the Riigikogu to the fact that the Ministry of Finance is monitoring key metrics and there are just under 20 metrics, which we will then monitor. These are, of course, with a different time drop: there are things that we can update every day, and there are things that we can follow even in a 30 to 40-day step. This is, for example, the measurement of consumer confidence. These meters are published on the Ministry of Finance page. I can't tell you the exact web address right now, but if you do a little bit of research there, you'll find it. The dynamics of card payments are there. Card payments have fallen significantly in Estonia during the crisis, and the only sector in which they have grown compared to the previous period is basically buying food. Now that consumption taxes first fall away and then labour taxes come with a reference. As I said, at least as far as we are concerned, and that is, of course, what we have taken into account in our forecasts, but at least as far as we are concerned, the forecasts are relatively well in line with the reality that we have been able to monitor. True, once again, we have only a very short period of time that we have been able to compare. There have been different ideas on tax reductions and support measures in the food or food sector. We are also dealing with the so-called economic stimulus package No 3 or, no matter what we call it, put it together. There are currently ideas collections, interaction between different sectors and institutions. We're hoping to get some sort of menu together before Midsummer Day and then start discussing it in the government. This would be for a slightly longer period, not just for a period of crisis, we say, three to five years, and in view of what we have to do, so that the Estonian economy can recover quickly from the crisis and be better after recovery than before the crisis. There's these different ideas. I don't have time to go through them all right now. I am simply marking that labour market measures are very important there, both training, training and various other support measures for the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U31	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U32	Next, Toomas asks Kivimägi and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! The EKRE policy may or may not be liked, and the fact is that most people do not like it, but one EKRE cannot be blamed for: it is the clarity of the expression. Nor can they be blamed for the fact that, if given any space, they stand up for their agenda, regardless of what is written in the coalition agreement. And that is how the EKRE has acted in your coalition, and that is exactly what applies to the EKRE statements concerning Rail Baltic. There is no point in reading what has been done so far in the framework of Rail Baltic, knowing that the fate of Rail Baltic has not been decided. We can only be sure of this once the next financial period of the European Union has been approved and the rate of Rail Baltic co-financing is as we hope. So far, there's no decision. And you have no hope of putting the blame on the European Commission if the project fails, because the Director-General of DG Transport, Mr Hololei, has repeatedly confirmed that Rail Baltic is the European Commission's most important priorities. So we can only drive this project into a ditch ourselves, and more precisely the current government can do so. And you don't have to do anything to do it, if Martin Helme says so. I quote: 'In general, with such super-big projects, if they are not fully supported at all times, they tend to collapse under their own weight. It's like standing on the western front might be what it takes. ' Martin Helme continues: 'I have always been in contact with my Estonian and European colleagues for the money not to go to Rail Baltic. ' A third - grade child also understands what EKRE and Martin Helme want, and even more so, for which they work every day. Have you understood that, too? And how long will you be playing blind, Prime Minister, risking the failure of a major project of the century, allowing its members to make such statements and counter-work?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U34	Thank you for this question. I am certainly not an EKRE mouthpiece, but as far as the sentence that most people do not like EKRE policy is concerned, on the one hand, of course, the Reform Party is entitled to say that. You're the biggest party in the Riigikogu and you can tell your, well, I don't know, under patronage who anyone likes and who nobody likes. But I don't think that's the right attitude. I don't know what most are or aren't most. If the majority is 51%, there is no such party in Estonia. So don't judge others here. That's my recommendation to you just. That someone is standing up for his agenda, I don't think he can blame anyone. I guess every party stands up for their constituents. The Centre Party in the same way: we have stood for the elderly through the ages, we have stood for the students through the ages to have free higher education, we have stood for local governments through the ages, for a strong social system, for the education system. Let's keep standing. Now, you're saying you shouldn't count what's been done so far. All right, let's not count it. And you're also saying that it's clear to the children of the child what the EKRE is doing and how he's going to cancel this Rail Baltic. I'm a great supporter of Rail Baltic. I think Estonia needs this project. This project is needed for Estonia economically, both during the construction period and after the construction period. This project is needed for Estonia to strengthen security, and this project is needed for Estonia so that our people can move between the three Baltic states and Europe, but can also move within the Estonian state. Where are the worries? One of the concerns you said, it's MFF. I agree with you. As long as there's no MFF, we don't know Rail Baltic funding. Can the Estonian state build Rail Baltic on its own, this part of Estonia 213 kilometres? I don't think I can. That means we need to get this project into MFF. This is what I have stood for every day, most recently in the international arena this morning in communication between Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. But we don't have MFF, you're right about that. We have some input from MFF that this funding will continue to be in the ratio of 85 to 15 in its core, and that's what we have to stand for. When Estonia has reached a better economic pace, we can say that this percentage can also change. It has not been changed so far, at least in this draft project. What else do I want to say? Where's the problem? There's a lack of money. In order to complete Rail Baltic, for example, by the end of 2026, we are currently missing 1.5 billion. We must stand up for it and fight for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U35	Toomas Kivimägi, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U36	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Let's not get too distracted by this when I said that most people don't like this policy. After all, you understood very clearly in your story that the majority is 51%, and there really are no political parties in Estonia today with more than 51% support. Secondly, I am deeply disturbed that you have actually overlooked the main emphasis on my question. It is not a question of your position. I don't want to praise the Centre Party too much, but the Centre Party has really stood up for Rail Baltic. I have no doubt about your position and your statements. However, this is a member of your government, a finance minister, who will also have a very important influence in standing up for the money of Rail Baltic in Europe. And when Martin Helme says that he is not the one who stands for the funding of Rail Baltic, it is a very high risk from the point of view of the success of the whole project. My question is, if in your Facebook post you turn to the great leader of China, Deng Xiaoping, using his words that it doesn't matter what color the cat is, when he catches mice, I'm going to ask you a simple question: what to do with a cat who doesn't catch mice? Martin Helme has made it clear that he does not stand up for Rail Baltic.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U37	Thank you. If you don't care about my position, if you say it's not my position, why are you asking me that? Ask him whose point of view you're interested in. Now, from Rail Baltic, I spoke to the Chairman of the EKRE yesterday. I asked if they wanted to change the coalition agreement, which states that we are standing for the completion of Rail Baltic, if the financing is on the same footing. There is a ratio of 81: 19%, just as it is now. He said they didn't want to change the coalition agreement. Consequently, the Estonian Government is working to move on with Rail Baltic. I understand you want to hit a big wedge between us, a powerful wedge. Of course you want to show that the government is broken, etc. It's not broken! Mr. Kivimägi, the government is going on with this Rail Baltic. It's going very well. But if you want to point the finger at these troubles and tell me where these pains are, then that's what I'm entirely willing to debate with you. One concern, MFF, as you said. I cannot say that MFF has been adopted, and I cannot say that Rail Baltic is covered with money in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. No, it's not. That's what we're working on right now. There's work all the time! Last night or the day before yesterday, I spoke to Commissioner for Finance, or Budget, Johannes Hahn. I mentioned Rail Baltic and that it is important for Estonia. The second problem point, as you know, is the governance structure that exists between Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. In this regard, I think we took another step forward this morning to find a solution for building a better governance structure for Rail Baltic. I believe that we will find a good solution here with the three Baltic States. But I'll come back to that for a second, when we talk about this percentage, I think that this percentage is very honestly included in the coalition agreement. This is in the same way in the agreement between Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia on the development of the Rail Baltic railway connection, adopted by the Riigikogu on 19 June 2017. It clearly states that we recognise that the Rail Baltic project has so far been co-financed by European Union funds at a rate of around 85%, and we expect a similar rate of refund to be applied to the future implementation of the project. So the Riigikogu itself has said that if it is changed and I have always said it before you, then it is my duty to come here and ask what we are going to do, whether or not we are going forward. It's good at the moment, the relationship is basically 85:15.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U38	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Having listened to your speech, I am quite concerned. And that's because what you're describing reminds me of a school car. I mean, if you're driving the government of the Republic, you want to drive and get there, there's a driving instructor next to you who owns the pedals. You're pushing the gas, but Martin Helme is pressing the brake. I am trying to understand how it is possible to achieve a successful end point in this process. It's actually a concern. And it is also worrying that if we look at the current crisis, we will see the plane less often in the sky when the sun appears in the winter. I would like to ask you how you cannot feel in the government as a whole how important this project is. This is even more important now than yesterday. It is not possible to work normally if one Minister, who is very clearly responsible for finance, can say so rigidly that he is working against it. If it were to refer to a coalition agreement that said, as you indicated, if the European Union funding percentage goes below 81%, it is not possible that we will do so. Then I'd understand. Consequently, I have a question for you: if it happens that this percentage of funding falls to 80, I say that even if this percentage of funding was 80, this project would need to be carried out, what do you think, as a head of government, will this project be carried out during your government or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U40	Thank you. If you ask such a specific question, I must refer to this document agreed in the Riigikogu, which speaks of 85%. If it goes to 80%, it is 5% less, then I think it is right to discuss it with the Riigikogu. I will also support the implementation of this project. But in any case, I think it is right to ask the Riigikogu for an attitude. Now, your claim is that there have been unclear messages during the crisis, and you have also integrated the Rail Baltic project into it. I object to you that there are no confusing messages. Very clear messages are. And I'll explain it. On 18 February, at an extraordinary government meeting before the European Union's Financial Framework Council, the government confirmed Estonia's positions in the negotiations on the European Union's long-term budget from 2021 to 2027. There is the following point about Rail Baltic: Estonia's priorities are maximising support for cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, ensuring funding for the Rail Baltic project in accordance with the coalition agreement and making the co-financing rate more favourable. If it doesn't work on February 18th, we'll take the epicenter of the crisis, April 9. That's the circuit a month ago. The government then confirmed Estonia's views on the EU's COVID-19 plan for exiting the crisis caused by the pandemic and on the plan for relaunching the economy at the video conference of the Heads of State or Government of the European Union. In these positions, Rail Baltic is said as follows: 'In order to reduce the emissions of the transport sector and to ensure connections with the rest of Europe and to boost the economy, Estonia considers it important to emphasise the need for the rapid construction of the Rail Baltic railway connection and to find additional funding from the European Union budget. We must stress that funding must also take into account the needs of military mobility. " Military mobility, for example, was also discussed with Commissioner Hahn two days ago. So I want to tell you, Mr. Kruus, that as much as you don't want to find that needle in this haystack, you won't find it. You will see that, even during the crisis, we have been very specifically focused on supporting Rail Baltic in government decisions, as agreed by this coalition since its birth. And I actually think you guys are glad that Rail Baltic and I are moving on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U42	Next, Helmen Kütt will ask the question and will be answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U43	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of State Administration! The emergency is coming to an end, but the crown virus, or wreath virus, hasn't gone anywhere. The safe distance should still be monitored, the principles that we do not go to work when we are sick and that we wash them properly - they should always be taken for granted in our lives. But now the masks. As a minister who has played with the idea of making masks compulsory and scaring the public with it, you sat on "Smooth Clean" without a mask. It would certainly have been principled and exemplary if you had been there, masked in front. Marek Strandberg was ten points away from his tenth, he had the whole show during the mask in front. His actions and words came together. But here's my question. Here it must be acknowledged that with local authorities, as your title requires, you work very well together and keep in touch with them. Now you've been in a lot of contact during this virus emergency. Can you point out three or four problems that have been mentioned by the municipalities and what should be resolved when there is perhaps an additional budget debate? Should something have been more clearly worded in an emergency, or have they been waiting for further information?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U44	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Very relevant questions. As far as masks are concerned, I'm going to explain a little bit why this proposal of mine came to the public. The members of the Cabinet were asked what the proposals for an exit strategy were. And the science council, scientists, experts, agencies were involved in the preparation of the exit strategy. Why did I propose it, and why did I make it publicly? Three reasons. The scientific council had said that when relief comes, consideration could be given to wearing a mask, either a voluntary or an obligation, or an obligation under certain conditions. My suggestion was not that everyone should be wearing a mask everywhere. Whoever read a little further from the title might have figured it out. The proposal included the idea that we should consider where and in which places masking could be more massive and perhaps mandatory in some places. This choice has been made by relatively many European countries in setting up their exit strategy. For example, in public transport and shops, masks have been made an obligation, not only for sellers and other service providers, but for everyone. The reason for this is the desire to prevent a possible new outbreak when people are moving more. We know that we have some problems with keeping distance in public transport, meeting this 2+2 rule, because more and more people are using public transport again. And now that the next mitigation measures are being implemented, we have a schedule in place, then more and more people are going on the move. For all these measures, the Government Commission and the Government have considered these matters, as well as their recommendations. My goal was to create a discussion. And that's the discussion we got. I have not said anywhere that my opinion is the only right one, but I wanted this matter to be discussed. Why wasn't I wearing a mask in the studio? Well, it was at least three meters apart, but symbolically, it could have been. Thank you, Helmen, for that observation. In all the enclosed public rooms, I wear a mask, even when I go to the grocery store. Unfortunately, very few people have been doing this lately because people feel that the outbreak is over now, and now it's all right. With regard to additional budget money, it is known how much it was given to local authorities: 130 million have been allocated to cover road and exceptional costs, plus investment support. What local governments are asking for and what no one can predict exactly right now, not even the Ministry of Finance, is how big a personal income tax gap can be compared to the budget initially made. There is also a clear signal here that we will probably come back to this at the beginning of the second semester if we have more precise numbers. However, the first mitigating measures have been granted to municipalities with an additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U45	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U46	Thank you very much for your answer. Of course, the speaker's grace left 40 seconds to answer the local authorities. The rest of the time went to the subject of masks. But let it be. You brought public transport on the table yourself. I don't want to give you a quiz, but I'm still asking you if you know how many buses from Viljandi to Tallinn and from Tallinn to Viljandi. If, before the crisis, there were 16 buses from Viljandi to Tallinn and 13 buses from Tallinn to Viljandi, it is now 0: no buses are moving between Viljandi and Tallinn. Well, thank God there's a railroad. But now, because of the railroad repair, the bus from Viljandi to Lelle travels, and there they sit around the train and drive to Tallinn. And back from Tallinn Viljandi will be driven to Lelle and from there to Viljandi. How is it possible when the emergency situation ends and we should monitor such safe distances to reduce the spread of the virus, for example, to drive between Viljandi and Tallinn? Viljandi is not a very small city in Estonian terms; it is not a non-existent city in Estonian terms, but the transport arrangements are such. I understand that this is not directly your area, this is the field of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, but I hope that you have spoken to the local authorities on this issue, too, and they have brought this problem to the table. Not everyone drives a car, some people take a bus or a train. Perhaps you want to explain this a little bit, and also to add what issues local governments have highlighted, referring to the concerns of the start of the emergency period. You have the chance now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U47	Thank you for your question. I will then start by answering the previous question, where I had little time to answer. One of the things that taught us was the South-Estonian storm and the regional crisis communication at the time. The Rescue Board took over. This is not the law, but when analysing the South-Estonia storm, we concluded that, precisely following the law, the Health Board should have taken the lead in resolving the regional crisis. But we do know that the Health Board doesn't have that much resources. The Rescue Department has this resource, and that's what we've been arguing about, negotiating. Such a change of law is likely to come to this Riigikogu at some time, but we did so without amending the law. The Rescue Board took over, took half a day, and it came about through the regional crisis committees. Yeah, you can always do better. At first, the ministries rushed to give some instructions and explain things to the municipalities, perhaps overburdening them, but after a while everything started to move properly. The information moved from top to bottom and all the information needed to be retrieved from the municipalities came from there. For that, I must commend and praise the Rescue Board and our municipalities. Everything worked out, I don't dare say it works perfectly, but it works very well in any case and so far. As far as public transport is concerned, many mitigating measures will be in place from next week. The whole situation should be monitored. I have spoken to the Mayor of Tartu and the Mayor of Tallinn; their approach has been slightly different. As far as public transport is concerned, it is unpleasant not to want this compulsory masks, but to impose obligations on somebody, but perhaps with some voluntary action, people can still be affected in very closed spaces where distance cannot be maintained, still using all these resources, deso tools, masks, etc. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, of course, comes with certain proposals that can be made in public transport. I know Elron's re-compressing the train schedules. In the meantime, some trains were taken away because there were no people. Of course, the biggest problem is in larger cities with more people on the move. And as scientists say, the potential danger is where there are more people. So we are still talking about Tallinn and some other major cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U48	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Action in an emergency certainly needs clear messages, and a social standard could also be clear messages from members of the government and a fair view. The Prime Minister reprimanded us that we had misunderstood and pointed out, for example, that the Ministry of Education had made very good communication. I think the last surprise that struck us in the Riigikogu was a positive surprise, but it was that Minister Mailis Reps said that in fact graduation ceremonies in a certain form could still take place. So far, everyone had the idea that they shouldn't happen. This is an example of the confusion of these messages. The second thing that concerns me is the messages that we received at the reading of the additional budget, which concern new investments by local authorities and 70 million allocated for this. The Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Chairman of the IRL made it clear that, according to their knowledge, and their word is law, the investments already planned can be made. I see the finance minister, Martin Helme, smiles at the table. After all, he won another victory, and the messages to the local authorities were that this is not really the case. Honourable Minister, you were also in the Committee on Rural Affairs and you gave us an overview, you gave us a clear hope that the investments already planned could also be made, because the concern of the local authorities was that there was not enough money to carry out all the investments. What went wrong, though, that local authorities were actually pranked?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U50	Thank you for your question. We'll have to look in the mirror. The Riigikogu wrote new items in the Supplementary Budget Act, and I can no longer interpret anything in the regulation that I issue and sign. If there are new objects, there are new objects. I will describe the terms of this regulation to you. I've been arguing about this a lot, and I know the feedback from the local governments too. After all, we have actually had a general approach that, even during this crisis and when it comes to getting out of it, it is important for companies to have larger companies, but then also for local and regional companies to operate. What does this money mean to the municipality? After all, these are relatively small volumes of procurement that can be carried out quickly, including these new objects. In fact, roads were given practically the same amount as they usually have in the budget. It will also be a revival of the economy, so that it is possible, first, to fix the roads and, secondly, that these companies will get jobs and people's wages. I guess every municipality has to review new investments. It says that for objects in the budget and in the procurement plan, you can't ask for money. In the meantime, even if the existing investments were not made, there would be no investment at all. Well, that is certainly a disproportionate requirement. At present, I have not yet signed a regulation in this form. It is in coordination with the Union of cities and municipalities. Let's complement the nuances and then this regulation will come. But this principle, that be it new objects, was written in the Riigikogu, it did not come from the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U51	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U52	Next, Valdo Randpere asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Jüri, we actually talked a little bit of slippery already two weeks ago about the situation with pendulum migration between Finland and Estonia, Finland and other countries. Finland has now promised to open commuters to work between Estonia since 14 May. These rules, which have so far been stated in Finland, are completely identical to those which have been in force between Finland and Sweden since 7 April. Get out of the way, Jurgen, please! Don't shake your head, I have papers in front of me, I can give you papers in Swedish, in Finnish, in English. These rules exist: since 7 April, the pendulum migration between Sweden and Finland is allowed under the same conditions that will apply to Estonia. The question is that there are two aspects to this for me. Firstly, why does Estonia get the same opportunity that Sweden was given so much later? The Minister of Foreign Affairs, who has been in charge of this matter in Estonia, is always talking about the health protection principles and that Finland is based solely on the health protection interests of its country. This seems to me to be completely incomprehensible, given that the spread of the virus in Sweden is much more widespread. So we can cancel this pretext. I want to ask you why Finland has treated Estonia so much differently. And the second question. In all those countries that are now discussing the opening of the border, it is the Ministers of the Interior. In Sweden, it was Mikael Damberg and in Finland, Maria Ohisalo, who agreed, as the representative of Estonia, for some reason the Minister of Foreign Affairs is doing this. Why can't the Estonian Minister of the Interior solve border issues with Finland?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U54	Thank you, good Valdo! First of all, indeed, the Finnish Government decided on Monday that on 14 May Finland will open its borders for labour migration once again, and it must be stressed to all those who listen to Question Time that labour migration and other inevitable movements in the Schengen countries. This means, among other things, that there will soon be a return to the ferry to sell tickets. As far as we know, the Finnish Ministry of the Interior will prepare further guidance on border rules in the coming days. It is now known that border crossings have been allowed for labour migration and family reasons since 14 May. The final decision on admission is still made by the Finnish Border Guard. In Finland, strict quarantine is not mandatory, but it is assumed that those who come to work in Finland will only move between work and residence and avoid other movements and unnecessary contacts. Travel abroad for leisure purposes is still not recommended. I am hopeful that, as the virus on both sides of the Gulf of Finland shows signs of collapse, we will soon be able to lift the remaining travel restrictions. But it's only in the future. Since the start of the emergency situation, Estonia and Finland have been in constant contact with both ministers and authorities. I communicated with my colleague, Sanna Marin, on Tuesday, and since the end of March the Estonian and Finnish working group, under the leadership of foreign ministries, has been working regularly to discuss the relaxation of restrictions. Now, this claim that all of this is allowed between Finland and Sweden, in my opinion, this is not the case. The name of this migration is inevitable labour migration, and it applies to those who work in the so-called natural working area. This takes place under certain strict conditions in border regions. I think I gave an example in the last briefing that it's something like Valga and Valka. The same is true between Finland and Sweden. So I'm staying in my position. You stay in your position, everything's exactly as it's gonna be from May 14th. I don't think so. Now, why the Foreign Ministers are communicating. All ministries communicate. Certainly the Minister of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior have a very important role to play here, but we have agreed with the Prime Minister of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania that this will be coordinated by the Foreign Ministers Group. What we have with Finland, I just described.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U55	Valdo Randpere, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U56	Thank you. Well, I didn't quite get the answer I was hoping for. Or, actually, I thought you wouldn't say that, either, as much as I know you. I mean, I don't mean to say that I know you from a bad point of view, on the contrary, I feel very good about you as a human being. We've been really good with each other outside this hall, and in this hall, too. But I don't want to make you confess or say that you have doubts as to whether our Republic's Minister of the Interior would be able to talk to the Finnish Minister of the Interior very much, and that's why I'm asking you differently. Jüri, a very simple question and a simple answer: do you think that if the minister of one country insults the Prime Minister and government of another country, improves relations between these countries, worsens them or does nothing change them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U57	Thank you, Valdo! As far as I know, the Finnish and Estonian Ministers of the Interior are getting along very well. I didn't hear they couldn't. Point one. Point two: Good Valdo, you actually got to the punch line. That's what you wanted to ask. That is what you would like to say: in connection with the statement of the Estonian Minister of the Interior, the border on the Prime Minister of Finland will not be opened. And you want to prove that since the beginning of April, the border between Finland and Sweden is open. I'm saying it's not open. It's not open! About the case you asked me about, I've given you full answers. Does this contribute to human communication between the two countries? Of course it doesn't help. But it's been said on both sides that we're going to end this. The Prime Minister of Finland has also said that we will now proceed from here. If you want to transfer it to the reference that you see, it's only on May 14th that the border will be opened, and why it is not, I don't know, May 5th or April 25th, etc., then I don't think there's any connection here! All that matters is the epidemiological situation in Finland and Estonia. It's a little different, but the trend is in one direction. So I don't think it's right to look for anything else. Finland has long finished this subject, at least when it met the Prime Minister, it said so. I understand you want to pick it up again, pick it up again and pick it up again. I don't mind if I do. We're getting along, of course. We meet sometimes outside the Riigikogu, we have met on the tennis court you play well, you play very well! That's not what I'm saying. You don't say anything bad. But yes, Valdo, it's not worth looking for, there's no connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U58	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U59	Thank you. Mr. Ratas, I would like to ask you a similar question. You have emphasised here this week that this government is under your command. During the week, you have praised your partners as a very good choice, the best you have. But there is an interesting process going on in Europe: everyone is competing for seasonal workers, and not just for seasonal workers, but especially for seasonal workers. Ukraine is one of the countries of dispatch where planes are sent for them. And Ukraine has now also said its terms, in which case it is prepared to offer its predominantly agricultural workers. One is, frankly, a respectful attitude by the country of destination. There are security conditions, too, but the state has to say that it wants this workforce. Your government, as you say nicely, has, for some reason, despised the Ukrainians in a very specific way. On a number of occasions, public messages have sounded like Putin was talking about as if it were some sort of pariah people who had to be chased away somehow. In reality, it has happened in Estonia that the Ukrainian temporary labour force is gradually losing its work permits and your government has not agreed to fill this gap, which is very dramatic in certain areas, particularly in agriculture. Tell me, how is such a thing possible in your government? Farmers are distressed, they don't know how the field is cultivated and the crop is harvested. And other areas will have to suffer outrage for your government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U60	Thank you. Yes, this government is run by Jüri Ratas, in that sense you're right. Thank you. Secondly, I respect my partners in the coalition sincerely do. You complain to me that I have said in recent weeks that this is a good coalition with the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Fatherland and the Centre Party. I will stick to my words today: today, 6 May, in this Question Time, I say the same thing. I think this is the best coalition for Estonia. It is a broad-based coalition, a coalition with different views, involving as many different groups of society as possible. Yeah, I think so. This coalition has demonstrated its ability to make compromises, it can make very difficult but important decisions and it can manage Estonia at government level in this crisis as well. Now for your criticism of seasonal workers. I'll start with Ukraine. Ukraine is an important, very important partner for Estonia. Through Eastern Partnership Estonia, Ukraine has been supported, supported and will certainly continue to support today. In the case of seasonal workers, we must take into account the fact that there has been some relief or change concerning the agricultural sector. It shall be valid for a period of two months until 31 July. Let's go. We must also consider our unemployed. I don't have the latest data, but I think there are 50,000, half a hundred thousand unemployed in Estonia. And, of course, it is also our responsibility that the people of Estonia get as much work as possible in this crisis situation. And that means that, of course, many people are looking for new challenges, and why not in the agricultural sector. Now, for me, it's really amazing that you and the other Reform Partyers always get out of Putin and Kremlin. I'd say, don't worry, the government is working hard to build a strong line between Near and Putin. I mean the construction of the eastern border, the test section, the construction of a 23 km section in the first phase. Bringing this one agent out all the time, I don't get it. It's a worn-out plate, throw that Kremlin or Putin plate into the trash! Enough of this record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U61	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U62	Next, Katri Raik asks and answers again Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U63	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! The coalition agreement that was concluded a year ago states that Estonia will establish a separate border guard within the Police and Border Guard Board. According to Minister Mart Helme, this change will ensure preparedness for crises and comprehensive management of the area. You have praised the decision that the Minister of the Interior came up with last week by all means. I'm a little out of line. After all, completeness still exists in the field. There is a separate integrated border guard office. The Police and Border Guard Board was prepared for the crisis, as confirmed by Minister Helme and you are also. Cooperation is working well now. This was confirmed by the National Audit Office in 2016 when six years had passed since the establishment of the Police and Border Guard Board in this form. It's possible that former border guards just have a longing for old times. But that's it. I read an article by a good colleague, Uno Kaskpeit, in South-Estonian Postimees, where he said that for the next three years his task is to convince coalition partners that Estonia needs an independent military border guard. What's your position? Should the creation of an independent military border guard be the next step?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U64	Thank you. My position is what has been agreed in the Coalition Agreement, the fundamental principles of the Government Union. We agreed to strengthen and prioritise the surveillance and protection of the state border, create a structural border guard unit with a separate budget in the PBGB, ensure appropriate armaments and other equipment, and improve the direction of study of the border guard at the Internal Defence Academy. Of course, I can't complement you in any way when it comes to the National Defence Academy. You know the subject better than I do. But I really think that the focus on studying at the National Defence Academy is right for the border guard. In order to put additional resources there, I very much support it. What's the purpose? The aim is to strengthen border surveillance and to ensure greater preparedness for crises through integrated management of the sector. In the current emergency situation, we have seen that border guards are, and must be, at the forefront and able to carry out all their tasks in times of crisis. The Home Secretary's decision, what does that mean? This means that the structural unit of border guards will be led by the Deputy Director General in the Border Guard area. The PPP structure will be created, I think, in a dozen additional jobs with wage and economic costs. This also means additional resources, with additional training given to staff of other structural units of the PBGB. More precise numbers of posts and timetables are being specified. So, yes, I think the crisis has shown that if we restore border controls, we will be able to restore it, perhaps in the short term, for a few days. But now it's been working for weeks. And let's be honest, the P.P.A. has been of great help to the National Defence League. Thank you very much to the Defence League. If I'm not mistaken, there's about 150 of them who can do this job. That is indeed the principle that we have agreed on, and I think that is a good principle. Now that you're asking about this independent border guard, I don't know about the agency, there's no such agreement that there will be an independent border guard. If coalition partners want to convince each other, there's always a way to convince each other. But the agreement we are working for is that the Director-General of the PBGB, as I have already said, will come under a separate deputy in the border guard area.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U65	Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U66	Good Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm gonna keep asking about this. In order for the border guard to be able to do his job well, proper border facilities are needed. We went to the triangulation point together a year and a half ago on the southeast border. Several successive Ministers of the Interior have been struggling with the question of how to build the infrastructure of the eastern border. It is possible that the decision of a border guard of his own time to build his own border and guard it is not the most sensible one, but now it is. How do you see further progress in improving our border facilities? And I mean not only the southeast border and this short test section, but the whole of our eastern border, including that part of the Narva River, which is 'dark' because there are no radars. What is the path we are taking to improving our border facilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U67	Thank you for this question. When we build the eastern border, we'll be in the next position by today. I hope the PBA will sign a contract with the builder in the near future. If it all works out, if there are no arguments etc., then the aim is to start building the first stage in the second half of this summer. The second phase should be a 23.5-kilometer section. I think this is a very strong message, given that right now we only have a test section when we are talking about the land border, within 3 to 3 miles. Now we're going to do almost eight-to-nine-fold jump forward, maybe eight-fold jump forward. I think that's a good result. I really hope this procurement goes well, the PBA will get the contract signed and the construction will begin. I can also confirm that building the eastern border is a priority for the coalition, that is important. And that is what we have reflected in the coalition's budget strategy last spring and also in the state budget. If you ask more about the construction of the border, I think it is also really important that you can contribute to it with different, say, information technology and mechanisms, such as drones. In any case, I think it is worth considering this seriously in the future. I think with the border we've got our rod. If my memory does not deceive me, it was a few days before the 2015 Riigikogu elections, in the last days of February, when the then Government of the Republic decided to build and finance the border. It was clear that the decision was made in haste. The decision is, of course, a decision, and the decision is better than indecision. But that decision was made in a hurry. The landscape, these surface forms, were not known at that moment, did not know what the picture really looked like in nature. You have noted our joint move there, and in the previous government it has also been dealt with very seriously in order to make these test sections to find out what the surface forms are, how to design it, how this border will survive in nature. And now it can go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U68	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U69	Thank you. Good George! A little bit would develop this idea of a stand-alone border guard further, so how do you see this situation? I understand there's a leader in the facility, and this one's responsible. At the Police and Border Guard Board, this is the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board. The law adopted by the Riigikogu also lays down the tasks of the Police and Border Guard Board, including border surveillance tasks. It is quite meaningful to see how your government colleague, Martin Helme, listens to the question of both Rail Baltic and Border Guard in a ambiguous way. It'll give you its signal. But how do you imagine this separate border guard as part of the Police and Border Guard Board? Is it the same as a separate EKRE is part of the Government of the Republic? I understand that there must still be one boss in the house, and in the government you should still be responsible, just as in the Police and Border Guard Board, the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, Elmar Vaher, should be responsible. Who's in charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U70	Thank you. I thank you for also describing how the Minister of Finance feels emotionally. We have the rule that we have to sit farther away from each other. When you told me what Martin Helme was doing, I was afraid you might say that he was crying that something had happened. But when a person laughs, it's good, it's positive. I've been working with him for a year now, and I'm also saying that I think Martin is a very nice and positive person. So it's a good thing he has a smile on his face. But I understand what you're asking. You're not asking about the border guard. This is, I think, for you, I don't know, a multi-step question. It's still about the EKRE, the way it is with the EKRE. You're hurting your heart over EKRE. I believe that the voters of the Reform Party will be grateful to you for the fact that you have gone so seriously to do the EKRE thing and to improve it. But what can I say? The PBGB shall be managed by the Director-General of the PBGB. It's been that way, it's gonna be that way in the future. But the CEO of the PBA has deputies. Of course, priorities can be better focused. This will certainly be done by setting up this deputy seat. But no one's taking the powers of the director-general of the PBGB away from that you don't have to be afraid of. If you are also concerned about the Government of the Republic who is in charge and responsible, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will lead and be responsible. That's not all I can tell you, Honourable Hanno Pevkur. As far as Rail Baltic and Border Guard are concerned, we all have emotions. And it's good that people have emotions. It's much worse than playing a record here from morning to night. The Riigikogu has heard that too, hasn't it? There still has to be emotions. That, I think, is a good thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U71	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U72	Let's go to question 8 by Urve Tiidus. Reply by Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. At the end of March, Jaak Aab, you were appointed to be the responsible person in the field of obtaining personal protective equipment throughout the country. Many may remember the recommendations of the beginning of a pandemic to prevent infection. The world's media received strange greetings with elbows and shoes, but very quickly it was replaced by the understanding that it was much more serious. Demand for masks and other personal protective equipment grew exponentially throughout the world, also in Estonia. Unlike the big cities of Asia, where masks are a daily phenomenon, in March and April, Estonia's supply remained critically below demand levels, even overly critically. Without delay, I ask you to share information on the following specific issues: A number of public procurements have been announced for the purchase of masks and other personal protective equipment. Many of them can be seen on the Ministry of Finance's page, many of which have already arrived with deadlines, some are ahead. There is a rumor that some kind of shipment is moving by train towards Estonia. What's the status on these procurements? Are deadlines respected? Is there enough supply? For how long? How far is the joint procurement of the European Union? And if there's time, I don't think it's gonna stay, what's the hardest lesson about this spring?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U74	Thank you for your question. Yeah, that's what the emergency manager has designated. Well, actually, it has its own history. First of all, I was in the process of getting the funds for the public authorities, the municipalities got them, and there was no shortage. Even family doctors and institutions received them. Later, there was enough to get them on the market; our own producers increased their capacity. I also initially dealt with personal protective equipment with regard to local authorities and public authorities. On the other hand, the Health Board dealt with hospitals and other health care providers. But it was clear that there was a crisis, there wasn't enough supplies. The whole world was not ready for this, including Estonia with its own resources. In some places the stories were a little better, in some places they were worse, and then they had to be obtained quickly. It was at the end of March, I remember whether I was assigned to central purchasing on 23 or 24 March. On 26 March, we signed a major contract with a Chinese supplier, from whom these things still come from. And I'll explain how long and how much longer. Then we also carried out faster negotiated procurements in order to obtain supplies quickly. The first larger quantity came on April 2, it was ordered in cooperation with the North Estonian Regional Hospital from China as well, but smaller quantities have also come from Europe. On 7 April, the first plane arrived within the framework of this great Chinese agreement, and now six of these planes have come together. I mean this Chinese agreement. When assessing the situation, we need to keep an eye on how the infection curve is, how much supplies are needed. Let's just say in two weeks we were practically able to stock up for the month. It took two weeks to get public authorities, local authorities, hospitals and other health care providers, as well as care for about a month's supply. The situation was different with regard to the various instruments. It is now clear that there is a reserve until the end of May and beyond. Why did we decide to bring some freight by train? Because it is clearly cheaper and because critical stocks are available. We don't want to fly them with planes that are very expensive. Rail transport is 15 to 20 times cheaper and that is why we have decided to deliver the last part of what has been prepared by Chinese suppliers by train. More than 90% of the order has been manufactured and a logistics company in DSV in Shanghai. This logistics company will help us deliver the goods. So there's no critical point in the supply chain right now. Maybe I'll be more specific when I answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U75	Urve Tiidus, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U76	Thank you. Perhaps you will specify the time limits for the procurement: has everything gone well now? How far is the joint procurement of the European Union? That's what I asked you in this first series of questions. And perhaps you can also respond to some people at risk: whose job it is to ensure that they too get protection if they are not able to go to the pharmacy every day looking for masks? On Earth, not everything is as self-evident as a cityman doesn't always get to move, close people are far away, and a couple of times a month driving a train would like to feel safe. Is personal protective equipment equally available in remote regions, or is it only on the hands of local authorities? So: joint procurement by the European Union, compliance with procurement deadlines and then this slightly more specific question about people in the risk group who do not have a wide range of opportunities to drive, move, search, obtain.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U77	I'm gonna start with that last one, that's what we've been talking about lately. As I said, my suggestion was that if masks should be made mandatory not only for sellers-servants but for all people, then it must certainly be ensured that risk groups or, say, less insured and older people receive personal protective equipment. We have that opportunity. With the help of the local authorities, we can secure it. We have not given any general guidance to the municipalities, but we have given them sufficient personal protection, they certainly have at least a month's supply. If they decide to provide masks to vulnerable people, I don't mind. They can ask us for more, we can give them more. There's no problem with that. I think it would make sense for local authorities to solve these problems, because they are the ones who see best how available masks are in groups at risk who are less insured. I guess we're helping with this kind of concrete help through local authorities. We can supply the municipalities in any case. No problem. Now, have the time limits been respected in the procurement process? Well, it's all gone a little bit. The main reason is logistics. We have a certain advantage thanks to the Ambassador of Beijing, who has helped us very much. There is also a need for a certain national note: if we bring goods ordered by way of public procurement by plane there, the windows will be found more easily. If there is a state confirmation that this is a public procurement, the windows will be better received. I very much congratulate the Chinese Embassy, they have been very helpful, and of course our logistics company, DSV. But it's complicated for everyone. In China, deliveries have piled up enormously, even in the region where we bring them, in Shanghai. It is difficult to find transport. As far as I know, today the first container will be on the train, and by the end of May, the rest of the batch should be there. This will secure our supplies until the end of June. But it all depends on how much we need. And right now, it's going to take less than we thought at first, we've counted on much larger quantities. As far as European joint procurement is concerned, I am indebted to the answer, which must be asked by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board, who are preparing it. But I'm afraid there won't be anything here for a few months.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U78	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! The Prime Minister urged us to play old records and we could forget about Putin. But when you read the stories of the middle partyman, Vladimir Velman, there seems to be no way to forget. I dare say that good hits can always be twirling: you put them on and it actually gets better. I hope you don't mind. Speaking of personal protection, I have a question for you. On the one hand, it's like saying that the virus caught us off guard. But we have actually heard here that the Health Department has sent out certain materials with warnings that we might be in such a crisis. In fact, I have no idea how we still had not supplied defence equipment to frontline workers. I am thinking most of the health professionals who had to deal with sick people. Please tell me, Minister, did your colleague Tanel Kiik fail to do anything? I dare say that this has been one of the most mysterious facts for me that hospital workers did not have enough protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U80	Thank you for your question. I can assure you that there was no such situation at any point in the hospitals dealing with patients with corona that there were no personal protective equipment. The reserve was critical, I admit, we read in days, whether or not we have enough. And I guess we all have to look at ourselves, both the current government and the previous governments. We have made these crisis plans, and yes, but the other way around, and no one in the world could foresee a pandemic like this. Nobody knew how many of those supplies were supposed to be. I'm sure there must have been more and more. I, too, have been given a new assignment on May 14. In fact, hospitals and care are more of a topic for the Ministry of Social Affairs, but since I have dealt with central purchasing and, let's say, in this subject, I have been asked to make proposals that we do with this central reserve, how big it should be and when we get supplies. Of course, account must also be taken of the forecasts of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board, whether we must be prepared for another wave and set up reserves for that purpose. It is also a question of how much every hospital and nursing home must have of its own resources. In fact, they should wear them out every season, we should have a habit of using them. We are likely to use too little personal protective equipment during the flu season. We might also be able to prevent a number of deaths and illnesses if we acted the way we do now, if we were to keep our distance, use our disinfectants, use our personal protective equipment. As everyone admits, the flu, like it doesn't exist at all, is just a corona. So it helps against other viruses. But I'm sure that's the question. We have planned the preparation of open public procurement, framework procurement, with which all these institutions will receive a certain margin. We're gonna find out what kind of supply we're gonna get, what the central reserve needs to be and who's gonna hold it. For example, in welfare, in a normal situation, even if there is a flu season, simple means are sufficient: masks, gloves, maybe coats and aprons. There is currently a reserve in each of the four regions and, if there is a difficult situation in a nursing home, in a few hours, all the additional equipment needed is glasses, protective suits, coats, whatever. So I think that this plan must be agreed, it must be described somewhere, provided for in the relevant acts. There's gotta be a spare.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U81	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U82	Next, Aivar Sõerd asks and answers Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Finance! EKRE spokespersons, including you, have recently made a resounding statement allowing Rail to shut down the Baltic project, to oppose it, to hold back the activities associated with this project. I have been thinking about what levers and opportunities the Minister of Finance has to hold back this project. This is serious. Members of the Latvian and Lithuanian Governments have also responded to this, who have made statements or at least made comments on it. As far as the suppression of this project at government level is concerned, I do not need to ask you, we will ask the Prime Minister about that. But my question is what opportunities you have within your jurisdiction to slow down this project. What's an arsenal? Do the speeches in the Ecofin Council of the Union finance ministers of Euopa or any other activities or documents that are in the form of documents or documents that have not been finalised? We had an EKRE Minister for Agriculture who refused to sign a mandate for the PRIA, after which there was a legal problem. I ask you which levers are at your disposal to slow down this project. And what activities, what levers have you used? And what documents have you left on the table or not signed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U84	Thank you. Maybe I'll start by saying here before that I'm smiling a lot. Punctuality, of course, means much meaning. Maybe I was smiling about a few questions, maybe I just thought of something. But actually, if you want to know what the meaning of this smiling is, I suggest you think carefully about the long-term usefulness of my mystery tactics. Creating such an atmosphere... It's okay with me if you mysticize me in politics, it's definitely working for me, but I don't know if it's for you. Actually, I'm not a mysterious creature. Actually, I'm a member of the government, one in 15, in my field, trying to do as good a job as I can and can. And in the end, it is not the opposition that evaluates this, but the electorate. I think that the Prime Minister has already quite thoroughly answered the question of whether the EKRE wishes to open a coalition agreement. No, I don't. Everyone knows that Rail Baltic is a project for us that we have not supported since the beginning. And this assessment, I think, at this point in time, we do not have to and cannot hold this debate, an assessment of whether this project is useful or necessary will separate different politicians, different parties. But as we have agreed, it is. And now the real question is whether Europe will come from co-financing or whether it will not come from co-financing. And here was also the question that if this co-financing is not 81%, but 80%, what happens then. I don't think it's 83%, 84% or 1%. If we know today that the deficit is 1.5 billion, we are very far from 80% or 85% of co-financing, and then our own co-financing obligation is so great that I do not think it is real that we can bear it. So, basically, the question goes back to the MFF negotiations. And as Aivar Sõerd very well knows, to my great sadness, and I still do not understand how this is possible, the European Union budget is not being negotiated by finance ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U85	Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U86	Yes, of course there is a clarification. I have here a financial plan for the Rail Baltic project and its funding, its budget. And I am asking specifically not about the part concerning the next financial period, but specifically about this financial period. Unfortunately, I cannot comment on this here, this numerical section is for internal use, but so much I can say about it and ask you that there are different stages for 2020 and 2021. There are overpasses that you have said that they can be used without railroad tracks and depots and tramlines, which you agree with. But here too, mostly by 2021, there are concrete works, specific objects that are already specifically related to rail construction. And that is why I am asking whether the construction work provided for in this budget, which is specifically linked to the planning and construction of the railway line, will be carried out. Are they going to continue as planned in the budget, or are you going to slow them down as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U87	Thank you. I think we're talking about the same document. I have to admit, I don't like this "Intra-Institutional Use" stamp at all. I have tried as much as possible in the Ministry of Finance to introduce the principle that if there are no separate orders to place this temple on the paper, the 'Intra-Institutional use' will not be stamped. I think it is paranoid; it is wrong for the public and for transparent governance. This temple has been stamped not by the Ministry of Finance, but by MKM. And I can't take it down, they have to take it down. Yeah, it's right that we've so far been Rail Baltic for money, I have a table that says that its co-financing has been such that our share has been 18.3% of built things that are very excellent: tramlines and the Ülemiste logistics centre, and we have planned some port logistics centres. This is all great, and I think that these are useful things for Estonia in any case, which no one is arguing about. Pärnu travel terminal or the multimodal terminal of Muuga Harbour or the Old Port tram line, the development of the Tallinn ring road, all great things. As far as the budget for 2021 is concerned, we do not yet have this budget. In the RES, these amounts are planned as much as the RES could have done before the crisis. In particular, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is responsible for specific items. It's like I don't see a chance or a reason for individual objects to carry out any kind of feisty or guerrilla war. I am still talking about the fundamental question of whether co-financing comes at the level that is allowed, expected and desired, or not. And if it doesn't, this project is beyond our reach. It has also been said once about how I interact with my colleagues in Europe. Estonia's positions were also introduced by Jüri Ratas and it has always been stressed that the share of co-financing must be as high as it has been agreed. And in Estonia's positions, we also have other priorities. Of course, in my dealings with my colleagues, I will examine what are their national priorities, where we have common interests and where we can support each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U88	Thank you. Time's up. Our briefing today is over, too. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, all of you. I would also like to thank the ministers for their response. Let's get the bells ringing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U89	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 13th working week session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to hand over drafts or enquiries? There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U90	Let's go to today's agenda. Today's first item is the third reading of the Land Reform Act initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee, the Land Acquisition Act issued in the course of the land reform and the Draft Act amending the State Assets Act 87. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 87 on the draft. We are going to the final vote on this. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the Land Reform Act initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee, the Land Acquisition Act issued in the course of the land reform and the draft law amending the State Property Act. Please take a stand and vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U91	Today's second item is the first reading of draft 167 of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask Indrek Saare, a member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U92	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, You have a draft decision in front of you 167. The Social Democrats are therefore proposing to the Riigikogu to decide that the Government of the Republic should develop a package of economic measures to mitigate the effects of the corona virus in the media sector. There is certainly no need to talk in depth and at length in this Chamber about what is important in a democratic society and its functioning in an independent and professional private media, but one could speak with a few words about what is happening in today's media market. After all, Estonia has done well in general, Estonia's media picture and the press market have been diverse, Estonia has also been high on the press freedom ranking for years, true enough, there has been a slight decline in the last year. But today we are in a situation where, in a crisis, we all rely very much on the information that the media provides us about how to behave in a crisis situation, which are major concerns, which are possible solutions, which are discussions about these solutions. Interest in the press is growing, but at the same time the media and the media's own income are drastically decreasing. That's for the simple reason that private media gets a lot of their income by selling advertising. In times of crisis, however, it is quite common for advertising to fall drastically, which is also characteristic of this crisis. The Estonian Media Association estimates the volume of the advertising market to be 100 million euros per year, which this year they estimate may be reduced by 30 to 40 million. These are big numbers. Media companies themselves have already reduced their employees' wages, they have done so significantly and they are certainly looking for other cost savings. However, it is clear that if revenue is reduced to this extent, measures must also be taken that do not work well in the press. Some press publications may also be threatened with closure or substantial contraction of volume. Yes, it may mean that the content that is being offered is less than substantive and physical, but it may also mean that some publications, especially smaller ones, have to cease their activities altogether. There is certainly one of the very large question marks above the head of the local press, or county newspapers, because their compositions have been reduced to the minimum anyway, and the concentration of a couple of people means essentially that the newspaper will no longer be able to be done. That is why the Social Democrats consider it very important that the state should help these press publications, the Estonian media market in this crisis situation, as is being done and planned in many other sectors. Yes, indeed, the Social Democrats have already submitted a draft decision on 25 March. During this period, the country actually has two things, one could also say that one and a half things (or how someone wants to name) have been done, of those that we mention in our explanatory memorandum, among other things. One of them is that VAT on electronic publications has been reduced from 20% to 9%, i.e. it has been reduced. The Ministry of Finance estimates its impact at EUR 0.8 million. The media sector itself, as always in such cases, is twice as low, but it is between EUR 400000 and EUR 800000. In addition, the government has made a direct grant decision in the budget concerning the grant of home delivery. One-off allowance for home delivery is an additional EUR 450000, which is approximately two thirds of the cost of one-month home delivery. The cost of home delivery is around EUR 660000 per month and private media should receive support for approximately 400000 home visits. Now, if we put these two numbers together, we'll either get a little less than a million or a little over a million, depends on who gets the prognosis into the truth. If we consider that the media market is losing 30 to 40 million euros in advertising revenue, it is obvious that 30 to 40 times this amount may not be enough for press publications to actually survive this crisis and our media landscape to continue to be diverse, independent and professional. Therefore, further proposals have been made. One of these options, for example, is that it is certainly not absolute, and the only one is that the state helps private media with current resources so that it makes social campaigns for works. It is estimated that the public sector spends an annual amount of EUR 1 million on social campaigns. Today, the state could consider making purchases, not just buying one year's volume, but buying three, maybe five years' volume, according to how the agreement is made and considered appropriate. This would already be significantly more serious in the form of operating aid. It is not a non-refundable loan or simply a subsidy, but it would actually be a commodity, the state will make a bargain with its purchase and can use these surfaces in the future. It's one of the ways to start this discussion. However, since we have before us a draft decision that proposes to the Government of the Republic that these measures be finally agreed and drawn up, it is therefore not the ambition of the Riigikogu to say exactly what is being done in advance here either. In any case, it is clear that what has been done now is certainly gratifying, but it can be a drop in the sea, imaginatively speaking, which in reality does not significantly alleviate the situation of private media. That is why, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I am asking for your support for this draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U93	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. I remind the members of the Riigikogu that every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask each of the two rapporteurs a question when processing this item. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U94	Good manager! Good waitress! I think the train's gone a lot. But I'm interested. It is known that Marju Lauristin is the great teacher of most journalists and the brain of your party. Did you consult with Marju Lauristin before you came up with such a proposal? In particular, what should the state do with this social advertising in five years' time? You said that the advertising market would collapse by 30 to 40 million and that social advertising in the country would only cost 1 million a year. Actually, it's a very small sum. Does it really save an independent press?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U95	Thanks for asking. We regularly associate with Marju Lauristin, and it was last night that we spoke to Marju Lauristin about this. I dare say that Mr Lauristin is very supportive of this initiative. It is certainly important for me and the Group of the Social Democratic Party that a scientist who has studied the market for many journalists and the media for years indeed agrees with this approach. As far as the volume is concerned, yes, indeed, I cannot say exactly what is being advertised for this 1 million, but perhaps this is not the most important thing at the moment. The state has done much more advertising. As far as I know, the advertising budget for the Republic of Estonia 100 was about the same as the total annual advertising volume of private media, this distribution, of course, over several years. But if we're talking about a regular year with no special focus or campaigns, it's estimated at 1 million. In a crisis situation and in a post-crisis situation, the country may need even more volumes and then it will perhaps be spent 1 million more quickly than in one year. But in order to get a reasonable view of this, it is the government's job, for that is the ministries who can assess how much they think it is necessary to plan public advertising campaigns in the coming years. As a result, the government can also make its own proposals for decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U96	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your speech, you said the following sentence that some publications could stop or shut themselves down. In order not to be naked, please specify a few publications so that I can personally verify your claims.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U98	Here I would like to ask in return that please name those companies that may close themselves in the next year. I think there are a lot of people who have this opportunity, but it may not be realizing at all for all of them, who may seem to be 'normal suspects' right now. I certainly am not qualified to make such predictions. However, as the Association of Media Enterprises itself has emphasised, they see the greatest concern, particularly with regard to county newspapers, as their compositions are already quite minimal anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U99	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U100	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, A short time ago, Postimees stated that he did not want additional State support in the interests of independence. How do you feel when other publications want it and maybe get it, how does it affect their independence? Because he who pays should, like, order music to some extent. Do you expect that if this bill goes well, special praise will come to the socialists, the press, I mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U101	I think that special praise will be given to the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia and, above all, to the Government of the Republic of Estonia, in case this draft decision should actually work out. As far as the independence of the press is concerned, different dose mechanisms are used in a large number of countries to support classical journalism, and the Estonian state does so in one way or another anyway. If this is done correctly, there is nothing to question the independence of the press or to bind the press with any further promises. The measures that have already been taken, too, could be said to have led to dependence. However, for example, the Postimees Group, in its recent statement to which you referred, said that they certainly intend to take advantage of the opportunity available to them through lower taxation of e-publications, and they also intend to take advantage of this possibility of EUR 450000, which is intended to be used for the further subsidy of home delivery. Yes, they said that they did not have any complaints about additional subsidies, that is their decision, it must be accepted, but I do not see in any way that state support measures for one economic sector would make this economic sector dependent on the state in order to put freedom of the press at risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U102	Thank you. It's difficult to accept that last line one hundred percent. There have been reports from the press leaders calling for restraint that we have something to get from the government. This is extremely regrettable. But, of course, it is equally regrettable that the press is experiencing economic difficulties; it is extremely dangerous to democracy. There's one more thing in the background. Have you investigated what's going on here? I understand that support for the press has, on the one hand, been called someone's finest sausage, and against it, the party of the former questioners has become some sort of coarser sausage. Can you describe this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U103	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U104	Yes, I have heard such images from a member of the Estonian government today. Indeed, I, too, understood that the $450,000 meant to support the press or home delivery was the fine sausage that was received by one of the government departments, and the thickest sausages were, I think, excise cuts or I don't know. Yes, I continue to hope that it does not require a more thorough examination of the internal defence bodies, but if such a suspicion arises here, the respective bodies will probably also do their job, [to clarify] whether this sausage trade is still in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Estonia and the general principles of democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U105	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U106	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm looking at the press right now. The press receives three types of support: one is the unemployment fund, which has been used by almost all newspapers, then the value added tax (VAT) on digital newspapers, which comes from the additional budget, and the return to home for three months by half. Can you tell me if any other field in Estonia will receive grants from at least three places? When it comes to the fact that the leaves cannot do it, especially the county papers, I must say, as owner of one page, that these measures are quite enough. We could talk about the state in emergency situations requiring the newspapers to publish free of charge the ads issued by the emergency manager. Maybe they could be paid. But that the state should buy for 8 million, as some media companies have said, is this quite right? How do you see that three places have already received support and then you want more?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U107	Finally, given the multifaceted life experience of the questioner, which we have also enjoyed in the various performances here, we certainly do not need to remind our colleague that three very thin tubes do not have the same effect as one large tube or may not have the same effect. Perhaps the fact that there are several locations does not indicate how relevant this support is in fact to alleviate or solve potential problems. Without any comparison, we know that separate measures, which do not exist in the press, have been developed, for example, in the tourism sector, although everyone can apply for unemployment fund support in the same way for the cultural, sports, rural, etc. If, for example, we are talking about a very topical issue, i.e. that the congregations also receive support, even though we do not have a state church, but, of course, also the congregations are in a very difficult position because of this crisis and their ability to continue to operate is important to society, for example, a large part of this money has been targeted there as much as I have understood to keep socially important activities alive and to compensate for the loss of revenue. I am also saying that the fact that we have an independent professional press is diverse; it exists at different levels, or also at regional level, is certainly socially very important for us. I think that this is why the press certainly deserves further support in this critical situation. As I said before, I will not come back to these numbers, the two measures that have now been taken, in the context of the press, specifically during the crisis, i.e. e-publications and home delivery, actually mean a very small percentage compared to the collapse of the advertising market.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U108	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U109	Thank you. Honourable performer! Professor Marju Lauristin has taught me that a good publication, a good paper, sells itself. Consequently, these publications do not meet the expectations of the reader. For example, I am disturbed when the editor orders a story from the author, puts it under a tax wall, does not pay the author and earns income from the intellectual property of the so-called author. Do you think this behavior is ethical? And if the state starts funding the press again, how can we ensure that the 'free press' is free of impartiality, balance and independence?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U110	Of the concerns that exist in today's world, including how the media works, a completely separate debate could be conducted. I'm sure there's a time and a place for that, too. Nevertheless, when we talk about the role of the press as the watchdog of democracy, Estonia has been very high on the press freedom index. In today's world, there are different concerns about how the media earns their profits, but I recall that the issue is not that people do not want to buy 'press', but rather the number of orders has gone up during this crisis, because people turn to classical journalism to get reliable information. If otherwise not every day it is perhaps such an acute need, this is particularly the case in the crisis situation, and it is therefore understandable that the number of consumers of classical journalism has risen somewhat. Unfortunately, these sales revenues, which are collected from the page number or even online, are only part of the media's income. Under the conditions of the market economy, the press earns a very large part of its money on advertising sales, and if this advertising sales collapse, it is inevitably necessary to cut down on content. After all, we do not want the content to remain significantly thin, or at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U111	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U112	Thank you very much. I was somewhat concerned by a previous speaker, a honourable colleague's statement that whoever pays will order music. My honourable colleague, who has left the hall, is also aware that, for example, national broadcasting is financed from the state budget, but that does not mean that the government has the right to go and say what the content of the news is. For example, there are certain municipalities in Estonia that spend considerable amounts on urban media and where the mayor himself personally deals with what is published on urban media. Things like this happen, but we don't have one in the country. I may simply ask that you may repeat once more that our aim is not to go in any way to help the media in the creation of content, but to help media companies cope and support, among other things, what is stated in the Preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia on the preservation of Estonian language and culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U113	Right. In fact, the questioner said it all very well, but that would be for me, too, who will defend this draft decision here and present it again, then I say that our proposal is to support private media during the crisis. These are temporary measures, I recall, so that they can carry on their daily work, without writing in the slightest advance the content and exactly how to do it, in which we trust the Government of the Republic and the competent people who advise the Government of the Republic. Therefore, before you is the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to develop a package of economic measures to mitigate the effects of the corona virus in the media sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U114	Thank you. Dear colleague Aivar Kokk, there is one question for each waitress. Dear waitress, thank you. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U115	Thanks for the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U116	Now I would like to ask Mikhail Korb, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 21 April, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft. Eight members of the Commission were present as well as a rapporteur, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Culture. The rapporteur introduced the draft, did it more or less in the same way he did it now in the Chamber. Next, the question of the topical nature of the draft was raised as to whether this draft is still valid after the measures taken by the government. The rapporteur noted that he felt that it was topical and that this had to be discussed further. After that, the representative of the Ministry of Culture made a review which, to some extent, confirmed some facts or concerns, which the rapporteur also pointed out, but he also said that they were also monitoring the situation and trying to think about solutions. In addition, the question arose as to how the EUR 450000 allocated by the government would be shared. The Ministry's representative replied that work is ongoing, there is no answer at the moment, but this system is definitely being developed. Finally, the decision was taken that this draft should be discussed in a large Chamber, that the draft should be placed on the plenary agenda, and it was decided by consensus that the final vote on the draft should be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U118	Thank you. You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U119	Thank you. I'm just asking. When I read this explanatory statement, I do not argue that there is a need to support companies in all sectors during the crisis. But there are two lines written here: one is to support home delivery by half, and the other is to introduce lower VAT on digital orders. In April, we received an additional budget in the Riigikogu, not in the government, but in the Riigikogu, where the value added tax on digital orders has been lowered, and during the emergency period, funds have been found in the supplementary budget to halve the amount of home delivery for three months. These wishes, which are in the explanatory memorandum to this Act, are now supported by the Riigikogu and implemented by the Government. Did the Commission also have a debate on whether there are any other issues that should be supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U120	Thank you for your question. Indeed, exactly as you have now introduced this issue in the Commission, it was enlightened. The biggest part of the debate was about booking in advance, booking in social media. This was discussed in depth and at length in the Commission. There was less talk about other measures, but this was indeed discussed for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U121	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U122	Thank you! Good waitress! I read the news last week that one of the Estonian parties to which you belong has supported one of the Estonian Russian-speaking TV channels with 40,000 euros, at the request of the ERJK. Since we are talking about supporting the media in this difficult time of crisis, does your party still intend to support a Russian media channel with similar amounts or similar transfers, or do you continue to do so through the budget of Tallinn City? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Kas sa ise ei mäleta?'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U123	Thank you, good questioner! That's the right question. I think you are very familiar with the subject, because in these programmes that must now support this television channel, you have also performed in person and given interviews and distributed information. It seems to me that at that moment you thought that the presence in this channel was very important to inform the Estonian population, and you did so with pleasure. I think that if there is a chance, you will certainly do it again, because the importance of this channel has not been reduced in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U124	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U125	Good manager! Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum states that all of this is needed during an emergency situation. Today is May 6th and 18th, apparently, the emergency situation has ended this time. If the Riigikogu comes up with such a proposal to the Government of the Republic and hopes that these measures will be developed within ten days, but if the emergency situation runs out first, what then? Was it even discussed, or was it expressed in the Commission's view that it is now like yesterday's snow? As Mr Kokk said here, a number of measures have already been implemented by the current government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U126	Good questioner! Indeed, the topicality of the draft was discussed at the meeting, and it was briefly touched, but it was still branded. As far as the topicality of this draft is concerned, some of the measures set out here have, as has been mentioned, been implemented and implemented. But it was also discussed that, of course, measures do not solve all the problems that have clearly arisen in the press. The situation needs to be further monitored, assessed and proposed or amended to help sustain this area of life in the future. There was a debate about it, it was said. But because of your question or the context of your question: obviously you are right, we are talking about measures that will be implemented after the crisis or next steps. What they are, and what steps are being taken, maybe it's a little early to talk about today. There are no decisions and the ideas are different, but it is clear that many of the things that have been set out in this draft and proposed as measures have lost their topicality today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U127	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U128	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The ability of the press to cope with itself is extremely important in democracy, and the same ability to manage economically and be independent and critical of it for everyone, both the coalition and the opposition. Therefore, I think that the idea that the fourth power also needs to be supported in difficult times in order to guarantee this very independence, also in order to guarantee economic independence, is reasonable in my opinion. Since you are not just a Commission waitress, but also the Secretary-General of the largest coalition party, I ask what are the steps taken by the government after this excellent proposal is voted down under the leadership of the coalition. How is freedom of the press supported, including economically?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U129	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, this is a very serious and very topical question. But I think the media needs to talk about their concerns and problems or their solutions. In general, it seems strange to me that it is in this Chamber to discuss support for one area and the fate of one sector and to give a task to the Riigikogu. I think that they, like other sectors, like big entrepreneurs, like hotels, are concentrated around representatives who communicate with Members of Parliament who communicate with members of the government and who give messages and signals that are important to them. That's how debate and discussion are conducted. I forgot they're also communicating directly with the ministries. This debate brings out those things where help is needed, and these decisions are made, assessing the real situation and looking at different aspects. As far as media independence is concerned, it must be guaranteed a hundred percent. The independence of the media must be priority 1 and must not be at any risk. I think I answered you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U130	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U131	Thank you. Very interesting thoughts. If you thought that the legislator should not discuss the support of some sectors and the task given to the government, it was a fundamental position. But your brilliant response to Raimond Kaljulaid makes me ask what the Commission discussed on the subject of how quickly the media channel in question (it was PBK) could be prepared to make a single Raimond Kaljulaid. What did the Commission think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U132	Thank you for your question. That's my opinion, I said my opinion. You may have a different opinion, you have said it very often on the remote, your own opinion, I mean. I have the right to do this on the remote, just as the media has the right to express their opinion. As far as the other side of your question is concerned, this issue has not been discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U133	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U134	Austet President! Good waitress! One party, where you too happen to be one of the leading figures, recently published an ad on the front page of its newspaper, which praised the fine ministers of the Central Party for bringing tens and hundreds of millions of euros out of additional budgets to help people and businesses. Perhaps the Central Party has dullly used the additional budget for its own promotion. Do you think this behavior is right and ethical?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U135	Good questioner! First of all, thank you for the question. Secondly, I'm glad you're reading the newspaper at Midweek, it's a big tribute to the editor. I have seen that Social Democrats, for example, have also been advertising on Facebook, and I am also watching the Socialist Facebook ad, they were performing with the signs 'I Support' and 'I Care', if I remember correctly what was on the labels. It is also, to a certain extent, a promotion and advertising, and it was done in the same way during the crisis, and it was also a paid ad on Facebook. Different political parties make different political adverts and these adverts attract different attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U136	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U137	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I will ask you a question as a Commission waitress. You don't have to make a personal statement. Since I am not part of this committee, I am interested in the Commission's debate. When discussing this draft decision in the Commission, was the question from the members of the Commission whether, for example, labour market measures such as those that can be used by the media and everything else have any impact on the impartiality of the press? Personally, I don't think so. Media is exactly the same thing as any other business and it has the same rights. Nobody thinks that if the unemployment fund measures are used, the employee wage subsidy, then the content will change. Is this a question that came to the debate in the Commission? It seems to me that a lot of focus here is on who pays, it orders music.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U138	Thank you for your question. You're one hundred percent right. There was no such debate in the Commission from this perspective. It has not been said in the Commission that if resources are allocated to the media, the media loses their independence. There was no such debate in the Commission at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U139	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The question was prompted by your previous answer. Did I get it right that your prime minister must have had a different view than what you just said about this infamous ad that was made like a party during the plague? In the meantime, you said it was really good, it seemed like you were apologizing, and now you said again that it's great that ads like this are being made so that every party could do it. Have I got something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U141	Good questioner, thank you for your question. You've got it all wrong. I didn't say it was a good commercial. I said that different organisations or different political forces do different ads and different ads get different attention. That's all I said, and nothing more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U142	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U143	Good Mr. Korb! Of course, the Social Democratic Party paid for the Facebook ad itself. You are a wise man, how can you compare that one party makes an ad with the words 'We care', and the ministers of the other party say that I personally, I do not know, I, Minister X personally gave 200 million to the Estonian people? Please tell me how you can compare these two things. I understand that this has not been discussed at the committee meeting, but still has.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U144	First of all, thank you for your question. Of course, every discussion is moving in the direction where the questions and answers lead to this discussion. As far as this advertising is concerned, I have not read from this advertisement that these are the instruments that the ministers personally have brought. I think you've got it a little wrong too. [[The excitement in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U145	Dear colleague Kristen Michal, there is one question that can be put to each of the rapporteurs on this item. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I think that we all understand in the same way that at the moment when the restrictions relating to the health crisis end, the previous situation will not recover in all economic areas. Tourism, for example, but tourism promotions make up and made up a very large part of the revenue of media companies. You here, as one of the arguments why the media should not be supported, said in the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs that there is no point anymore, because this measure will arrive as if it were later. Really? Please describe or explain the logic of the Committee on Economic Affairs in order for this support to arrive too late, as if these financial flows would recover after the restrictions have ended. How does the Committee on Economic Affairs feel about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U147	Thank you, good questioner! This is really a very important question, but it seems to me that there is a great deal of incomprehension and misunderstanding on this point today. I have never argued that neither I nor the Commission support this draft, nor did the Commission. On the contrary, I believe that the media play a very important role in society and that the media must be supported. The question is how, how, when and who will do it. I think that the discussion that took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs clearly showed that specialists in the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Economic Affairs are monitoring the situation, looking at what can be done and in what way, and making proposals in this regard. Once again, neither the Committee on Economic Affairs nor I have ever said that the media need no support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U148	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U149	Thank you. You don't confuse the words'media' and'magazine', but these are two different things, especially free journalism. Supporting the media is a question of whether there are channels through which content is transmitted; however, free press is one of the pillars of a democratic society. In your earlier reply, you said that you attach great importance to the independence of the press. There are no only deeds, but at least in words [you consider it important]. In this context, I would ask that your party-led city, Tallinn, I have watched, has now increased the volume of urban media, not of the press, but of the urban media, during the crisis, more intensively. At the same time, most press publications have lost their revenues. In a situation where the press is less capable of carrying out its tasks, but where the urban media is more profitable, the situation of the free press is improving or worsening?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U150	Thank you for your question and your explanation. I try not to confuse these things, but I didn't really know what the difference was. As far as the Tallinn and Tallinn media and the Tallinn media communication are concerned, I must assure you that this topic was not discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs, that Tallinn was never mentioned and was not mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U151	Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good colleague! I know it wasn't discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs, but since you went that way yourself, that's what I'm asking. For the same ad that was on your party's Facebook page and on the front page of Midweek, where the ministers boasted about the things they had done, I understand that, the Prime Minister apologized, said that, oh, that was a bad plan. But you're here to justify it and praise it. So how is it now, was it a good thing or was it a bad thing? The Prime Minister apologized and said, oh-oh, a very bad thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U152	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U153	Honourable questioner, thank you for this question. First of all, I want to get the repairs in again. I did not start the debate on this issue in this Chamber; it was initiated by the question asked by a member of your group. I would not be happy to have a debate on this. At the same time, if colleagues want to have a debate on this, I am happy to do so. I will answer your question very clearly, it seems that this answer is being sought. As has been said in the media, I also think it was not good advertising. If in any way I have made a different point in my reply, as if I were justifying this ad and would say it was good advertising, then I say no, this ad was not good. That's what I said. That's the fourth time I've been asked. It's very hard to admit your mistakes and mistakes, I don't want to do it right away, I tried not to do it, but now that you're asking me the fourth time, I'm going to say it straight: yes, it wasn't a good commercial.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U154	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U155	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I'll continue with Kristen Michal's question. It seemed to me that you stopped halfway in your answer, and that's why I'm asking you over. What are these concrete measures and plans on the government side, which are intended to support the functioning of the free press in the current crisis and the survival of the free press as a result of the current crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U156	Thank you for your question. Yeah, really, I got the impression myself that I was trying to move somewhere, but like I didn't finish my answer. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But you'd respond specifically. Indeed, the government is currently debating, as the rapporteur suggested, that advertising be bought in advance on social media, that this issue is being discussed in the government, and that was also said in the Commission. This is a concrete measure that is discussed and planned. The three measures that we have talked about, which are already really working, I will not go over again. Perhaps another measure was left out that press companies, like other companies, could ask for a working loan from KredEx. It has not yet sounded in this Chamber, but it is a measure that also works specifically and that press publications, press companies, have the opportunity to apply. What other measures are there? I cannot answer that at the moment. There was nothing else to talk about in the Commission, and I do not know exactly what these discussions are. But that might be more specific, and we will know that if this thing moves forward, I mean, the government debate is moving forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U157	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Indrek Saar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U158	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, However, I am still forced to draw attention to a few things, because the questions asked by the Commission's representative indicated that some of the messages on the content of this draft law have arrived a little misguided. In the first question, Mr Ernits said that it was intended to support the press in times of emergency. No, that's not what the bill says. I read: '... propose to the Government of the Republic to develop a package of economic measures to mitigate the effects of the corona virus in the media sector. ' These are the effects that the media sector is experiencing in the context of this health crisis, and these effects last much longer than the duration of the emergency situation. We're not just talking about emergency situations. The Media Association itself has estimated that the turnover of the advertising market is likely to recover only from one to two perspectives. In fact, these effects are very long-term because the issue is not only that some specific companies have been hit, for example tourism companies, where turnover has fallen to virtually zero, advertisements are down, but also in the overall economic context and attitudes, because one of the first places to be cut in a precarious situation is advertising expenditure. Since we think that the economic crisis is in some ways just beginning, these effects will certainly last much longer, not just in emergency situations. Aivar Kokk said that in reality, two thirds of the things that are listed as possibilities in the explanatory memorandum have already been done. Once again, this draft was presented on 25 March. I would be very pleased if we had been able to start discussing the draft directly concerning the crisis in this Chamber much earlier, but it has not been the wish of the Social Democratic Party; it was still stuck in how and at what pace the Commission wanted to deal with this draft. We would have been prepared to discuss this already at the end of March or early April, and we would have agreed to come to it immediately, when it was very acute. But once again, coming back to the earlier comment that has just been made: the topicality of this matter has not gone away, but is getting worse every day. As well as saying about all the money put into EAS, KredEx, support for cultural and sporting events and institutions, as there are still measures opening up there and just applying for support, no one has received any money to hear, see, the emergency situation is already ending, so let's close them, let's not put money in there, because the emergency situation is over. No, it is not until in many cases that these effects are either expected to arrive, or they can be partially mitigated afterwards. That is why I would like to ask once again for your support for this draft, so that we are not in a situation, due to this crisis, where our otherwise generally well-functioning media market, our internationally highly subsidised press freedom will be hit very seriously. In this regard, I would certainly like to emphasise once again what the Association of Media Enterprises itself has emphasised, that the particular threat lies on the heads of the county publications, which is certainly a regional policy issue, among other things. So I would very much like your support for this draft decision, so that the Government receives a clear signal from the Riigikogu that this issue needs to be dealt with further. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U159	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 167 on the draft. We are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the decision of the Riigikogu requires a majority of the composition. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft 167 of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 28 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 8 against and no abstentions. The decision was not taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U160	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act 122 initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. I would like to ask Marko Šorini, member of the Committee on Culture, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U161	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Draft No 122 was at first reading in this Chamber on 10 March. No proposals were received from any member of the Riigikogu, the Commission or the political groups by the deadline for making amendments. In this way, the Committee on Culture discussed the draft at its meeting on 4 May rather briefly, as a major debate had already taken place before the first reading, when several parties were involved in the three meetings of the Commission. At this meeting on 4 May, the chairman of the commission, Aadu Must, said that it was a law that had already been implemented, regardless of the wording in the current law, or what it was intended to amend. The speaker also spoke and noted that after this debate the subject had received a positive response from all parties. Signe Kivi pointed out that the Government of the Republic and the Estonian Public Broadcasting have taken the view that there are no budgetary resources to amend the law and asked where these budgetary resources have been taken today. From the secretariat of the Commission, advisor Urvo Klopets explained that making ERR's original programmes available to the maximum extent possible would extend to the extent of the technical capabilities available to people with hearing impairments when the law was adopted and to the extent of the available resources. The exponential growth in making programmes available to people with hearing disabilities can only be achieved by increasing technical readiness. It was also found that the ERR has expressed its satisfaction that this issue has found strong moral support in society, as well as that quality leaps can only take place by introducing new technologies. While a debate was held during the first reading in the Chamber, on several occasions the answer to the questions had to be explained exactly what the Government of the Republic had to answer. As the government's response, as it was then mentioned in the large Chamber, their position is to support this issue in principle, but specifically this draft is not supported by the government. This is also because, in the autumn, we will have a Media Services Act, based on its content, the Audiovisual Media Services Directive adopted at European level in 2018. I also asked the Ministry of Culture to clarify some of the officials on this directive. I would like to thank Mrs Field and Mrs Ligit, who shared the information with me. This law, which is currently being coordinated by the Ministry of Justice, deals with people with disabilities in the light of the AVMSD in general. There are also requirements for the establishment of an action plan for all service providers. Perhaps if the current draft concerns only Estonian National Broadcasting, the Media Services Act will extend to all service providers. The action plan, which shows which activities the service provider intends to undertake to improve accessibility, must be submitted to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority in the first quarter of the year (as I recall it was the date of March). The directive requires the use of proportionate measures, in other words the service provider's ability to adopt costly solutions is taken into account. According to the 22nd recital in the preamble to the Directive, practical and unavoidable limitations must also be taken into account when assessing compliance with accessibility requirements, which may hinder full accessibility, such as real-time broadcasts or events, and therefore it cannot necessarily be assumed that all audiovisual media services will become equally accessible to persons with disabilities. To give an example here, the television service provider, whose programme largely consists of live sports events, has much more difficulty in ensuring accessibility than the transmission of previously recorded broadcasts. On the other hand, the obligation to take proportionate measures means that when making services accessible, the service provider must take into account the size, impact and specific features of the auditorium. The conditions for making the service progressively accessible are not met if the proportion of making the service accessible is unreasonable. So I wanted to point out here that there is also a draft law going on at the government level, which is wider than the one currently under discussion. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U162	Thank you. You have questions too. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U163	Thank you, Mr President. The good representative of the Commission who is doing the presentation here! Of course, we all agree that this service is very, very needed, but as your report shows, there are a number of ways to improve this bill. The central group therefore proposes that the reading of bill No 122 be interrupted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U164	Thank you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U165	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I am, of course, very pleased to hear that this draft has launched a process, as you yourself said, which has made TV broadcasts more accessible to the deaf, and similarly has also actively launched the process of media services laws which transpose the European Accessibility Directive on audiovisual services. My current question is this: when must this directive be transposed and when must the Media Services Act enter into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U166	Thank you. I'll see if I made that statement for myself. According to the information received yesterday, the Media Services Act is currently being coordinated at the Ministry of Justice. Within that month, they will have a deadline, then the draft will go to the Government of the Republic for coordination, and then he will basically be prepared to come to our proceedings. However, at the same time, I would like to point out that we will have a time between the spring session and the autumn session if we do not have meetings, which is why this draft is coming to us, according to my information, at the beginning of the autumn session and the entry into force is still planned this year. So, in March next year, service providers should present their action plan, which I have mentioned and what this directive requires of service providers. These are the dates I remembered from the information I got from the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U167	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U168	Thank you. Mr Šorin! According to the Rules of Procedure, Kersti Sarapuu had a question mark at the end of his speech. I also ask him to answer if the Centre Party is proposing or not. He couldn't have said anything else. But my own question is: what are these things that he called, with which this law can be significantly improved? Can you, on behalf of the Commission, specify why he thinks it may be necessary to interrupt the reading? What good thoughts have yet to be heard?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U169	Thank you, Mr. Ligi, for that clarification. At the end of each question there is a grammatical question mark. Indeed, that report or question was supposed to be so. However, the Commission did not discuss how to compare the draft currently under discussion and, in the future, the media service law expected to come in the autumn. If you look at the content, the current draft replaces one word in the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act with two words, or 'Course' instead of 'people with hearing disabilities', but the Media Services Act deals with people with disabilities in general. This is one aspect; it does not stick narrowly to people with hearing impairments but also to people with visual impairments. The same action plan that I mentioned in my presentation, which is needed by all service providers who provide these services in Estonia, also concerns private companies. These are the main differences. As well as the obligation that the action plan be submitted to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. As a result, it is precisely these same action plans that will be monitored. These are the main differences that I would like to highlight right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U170	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U171	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! As far as I know, the European Accessibility Directive must be transposed by 2025, so it will be by the time of the next Riigikogu. I can't tell you how we're supposed to be treating hearing people and deaf unequally here in the meantime. But my question is this: what was the Commission's position on this draft, and was the Commission also discussing when the third reading of this draft could take place, the final vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U172	Thank you for your question. I will come to the Commission's debate once. It was the chairman of the committee who pointed out, and probably everyone in this Chamber has noticed, that sign language translation is much more on the ETV screen than it was before the crisis period, than sharing periods like this. In the Commission, the attitude towards this topic was completely positive, one hundred percent consensual, and the decision was to finish the second reading today, and there was no mention of the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U173	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Could you explain to the Chamber how it can be made better to stop reading the bill? When I heard your last reply, I understood that there was a consensus in the Commission that this was a worthy draft. The mid-group has proposed that the reading be discontinued. Do those ambassadors who were in favour of it also intend to follow this political party line in the Chamber? Do you not personally feel that the ERR should be a pioneer and innovator in its role in the Estonian state and society? The reason that we wait while others are still running along or we have some general knowledge, I think, is not very right and fair to those people who need this service in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U175	Thank you. A good question, with several aspects. I agree with the questioner that the ERR, as we talked about in the debate on the previous point, is a service maintained by taxpayers, i.e. we all contribute there, and we naturally want our funded service provider to be a flagship on the market. That's what I agree with 100 percent of the questioner's offer. As regards the fact that we are now interrupting the procedure and returning to this draft in the autumn, I am forced to reiterate that the Media Services Act is dealing with the same subject in a broader sense than the current draft, which only concerns the ERR. The current draft means amending the National Broadcasting Act; the Media Services Act also extends to the private sector. It is, in my opinion, better than the current draft because of its wide-ranging nature. I will give an illustration in a completely different area. When the house is renovated, the landlords have agreed that the house will be renovated in the autumn, but someone will suggest that we change the doorknob, because then it will be better to get in the door, then it will probably be possible to wait for the autumn and the whole house to be renovated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U176	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U177	Good manager! Good waitress! You sort of said there was going to be some kind of media service law that solved all those concerns that the Reform Party bill didn't look so wide. But I remember that in 2013, Urmas Klaas was chairman of the Cultural Commission at the time, there was also the Media Services Act, and then Urmas Klaas said: 'The Media Services Act must be made European. ' Seven years ago. So what's the point, Asian law or what's now, or what's the new law going to be when the last one was supposed to be European, but it's not, as I understand it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U178	Thank you for your question. There are a few different aspects put together here. Now, seven years ago, Europe had not adopted this directive, which is now being used as the basic document of the Media Services Act. That's one point. No matter what we do with the bill now, whether we change that one word there or not, this does not make the service in itself any better. The service can only be improved by the service provider. The service provider has said that, regardless of how the law mentions a group of disabled people or not, they do their best to use their current resources. The law itself will certainly not solve the situation. It also came out of the debate before the first reading that the law, a new leap of quality, could rather come from the introduction of new technologies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U179	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I don't know if you did it unconsciously, but this example of the house was pretty bad. With this law, it means that I may not be able to get in the door for six months before the house is renovated. You referred to a door handle that didn't work. You yourself know, right here in the Riigikogu, that from time to time we have changed laws because of individual words or decimal places, if you would say so. We now know that this service is needed, it should be ensured, which would also make the ERR work harder to ensure that this service is also offered through the ERR. What is still the real obstacle that this bill cannot be processed and adopted further? After all, this possible more comprehensive draft could fit in with the positive step that we could take here in the Riigikogu today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U181	Thank you. And thank you for your assessment. I used to, when I gave this example, also hid an apology between the lines that this example might not be good, but I didn't mean that the door handle wouldn't work and that you couldn't get through the door without that link. But it doesn't concern this bill. However, I repeat what I have said on this board both at first reading and today at second reading: the ERR has said that, regardless of the expression in this law, they provide as much sign language translation as the current technology allows. I believe that the questioner has also noticed that there is much more sign language translation on the ETV screen than in the past, which concerns even the midday press conferences of the Crisis Committee or also news programmes, as well as several transfers from the Riigikogu have been sign language since the first reading took place in this Chamber. So I repeat: regardless of what we do with this word, ETV offers this service at the level they are able to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U182	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U183	Good manager! Good waitress! Deaf or hearing-impaired people have been around the world throughout history. When seven years ago Jüri Jaanson's partymate Urmas Klaas presented this Media Services Act and said it had to be European, it turned out that deaf people were chewing like grass, saying it in rural language. As I understand it, a directive came from somewhere in Brussels and it was discovered that deaf people or people with hearing impairments also have human rights and they must understand what is happening. How has it happened that it doesn't make sense to itself, but then someone in Brussels suddenly discovers and then we adopt a new media service law and see how deaf people or people with hearing disabilities can finally understand what comes on TV?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U184	Thank you for your question. In itself, it is a good example that our society continues to develop and develop for the better. I believe that everyone in this Chamber agrees that progress is a good indicator rather than a negative one. The main obstacle to the transmission of sign language translation is that ETV is currently producing a whole new programme, or that programme already has to include a sign language interpreter's so-called window on the screen. Perhaps the technology that ETV has to use does not allow it to transmit this sign language translation on a separate channel, as this is also where the signal service providers are able to transmit such large-scale information. It's been part of this debate. So time with us, with people, is evolving, our knowledge of how to integrate more people into society is constantly improving. It's a sign of progress. So it is positive that we have reached the point that we have a directive at European level, which has been adopted jointly by all Member States, and now, as a Member State, we can also adapt our laws on this basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U185	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Thank you very much to my colleague Jüri Jaanson, who has brought this initiative to the Chamber. I'm listening to this discussion, and I understand that it's also being translated to hearing people and deaf people so that they can be part of our discussion. I have to admit, I'm a little embarrassed. It does not make sense to me that we are making it clear in Parliament that what is already being done does not make sense to regulate. After all, we have brought this debate into this Chamber in order to sign up for a clear regulation, and now we have reached this discussion so far that it is kind of unnecessary. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U187	Thank you for your question. Certainly not unnecessary. In the first half of the question, if we don't do this now, then from tomorrow's day to tomorrow's day, my own arbitrary interpretation of sign language will disappear from the ETV channels. That's certainly not true. Anyone who has been in contact with this bill, I mean the members of the Commission here, has found that the principle is extremely correct, and it needs the contribution of both us and Estonian society, so that people with disabilities are more involved, also through the ETV screen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U188	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U189	Good Marko! I admit that you are speaking now as a representative of the Committee on Culture, a judge, not so much as a representative of a coalition or a central group. This means that you will reflect to us what happened in the Commission. I ask once again to clarify what the Committee on Culture decided on in relation to this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U190	Thank you, Viktoria. I'll be right with you. I explained at the beginning how the Commission was dealt with and that no amendments were tabled between the first and second readings. As a result, my report would have been extremely short. The questioners in the hall, who have the right to ask questions to me, have made the subject relatively wide open. I guess that's what we've all heard about here. The Commission's decision was to conclude the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U191	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U192	Thank you. Since there has really been relatively little mention of this Commission decision here during the debate, I would like to make it clear: was this decision consensual? Did all the Members of the Commission agree that the second reading should be stopped?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U193	Thank you. Yes, all the members of the Committee on Culture were in favour of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U194	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? Looks like it is. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U195	Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, start by expressing my thanks to the members of the Committee on Culture, who unanimously supported the completion of the second reading of this draft, and saying once again that the Audiovisual Services and Accessibility Directive, which should improve accessibility to audiovisual services and which we must transpose, must be transposed by 2025. There's still a lot of time. At the moment, the Centre Party had a completely unprecedented approach, i.e. if there are future European directives, we will stop reading the existing drafts. I understand only the same thing at the moment: it is an extremely gross insult to the deaf by the Centre Party; it is a personal insult. The question came from what can make this law better. This law says that hearing people need to be made available as far as possible to television broadcasts. The wording is so soft, and it only applies to hearing impaired people; deaf people have been excluded, part of hearing impaired people. It's completely unreasonable, and that's all we've been trying to do here. Now we're talking about the media service law coming up in the fall. It's supposed to come. It deals with all Estonian television channels, not just the ERR channels. The European Directive also states that implementing acts will have to be transposed nationally by 2022 and will have to be transposed by 2025, after five years. When we talk about the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, it is a law of a specific foundation. All foundations must have their own laws. When we talk about the conditions that are there and that apply to the Estonian National Broadcasting, I think there must be a reference to the same thing that people with special needs must be taken into account. Yes, the previous speaker is really right, our technological opportunities are improving from year to year, accessibility is improving, but we need to amplify it through legislation. We must certainly not give the impression that people with special needs, such as people with disabilities, should be dragged behind in ordinary society. This is the behaviour that is being made clear right now. I call on everyone to stop reading the second reading of the Estonian National Broadcasting Act. I see no other way, because the belief that they have been taken into account must remain for the disabled, that faith must also remain for the deaf. Let's remember what happened last year. Last year, 20 hours and 40 minutes later, the president's speech reached the deaf by the Office of the Estonian National Broadcasting and the President. That's the starting point right now. Is an event, an important event, and an experience for disabled people to arrive 20 hours later, a day later? I don't think so. I think that this law gave a very important signal to the Estonian National Broadcasting and also to the President's Office that 2021 will come to the deaf at the same time as the others.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U196	Dear waitress, do you need more time? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U197	Let us see what has happened after the debate at first reading on the same draft. For the deaf, accessibility improved considerably. Government press conferences, all events during the crisis, sessions carried forward from here in the Riigikogu, and the current session is also transferred in sign language. This is an important step forward. We can see there are opportunities. Of course, if we want to improve this law, we will see that we can improve it, it is possible to create more imperative texts there, that certain things must definitely be done by national broadcasting. But I don't think that's necessary. I think this wording is very good. It keeps the picture in mind that we have a few different people that need to be taken into account in a slightly different way. So once again, I call on everyone to vote against this cut-off proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U198	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U199	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! At the beginning, I say that the Social Democrats support the draft Act amending the Estonian National Broadcasting Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and will certainly vote against the proposal to interrupt. Changing one word, 'for hearing' in the law with the words 'for people with hearing disabilities' may seem like a minor change, but the content of this draft is very life-changing. This makes life in Estonia better, a fairer and more coherent society. The crisis that hit Estonia clearly showed the need for information to be shared with everyone. The draft launched on 18 December is even more important and topical today than at the time of submission. Each long journey begins with a small step, the first step, and the first small steps bring great changes. By amending the law, we will also lay the foundations for bringing this issue to the table in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy and for seeking additional resources. Who, then, has the opposite view? If there is to be a time for transposition of a European directive, there is still room for improvement of this existing situation and for other types of disability. I was Minister of Social Protection in 2014. At that time, the address of the representative organisation, the meeting with the heads of education at the Finnish University of Applied Sciences was sufficient, and Estonian young people started studying in Finland as description interpreters. Today, a description translation is also taught in Estonia. I really hoped that the draft law proposed by the Reform Party would do better than the draft law amending the law on psychiatric assistance, which was initiated by the Socialists and has so far passed its first reading, 115, which stands in the drawer of the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, despite the fact that it is a very important draft for helping people, especially in exceptional circumstances, but also in the ensuing socially and economically difficult situation. These two drafts are not a question of worldview; these two drafts are extremely important in terms of humanity, care and inclusion. I also call on good colleagues to vote against the interruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U200	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U201	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are all elected MPs in this Riigikogu, we are elected to be Riigikogu, we are representatives of our voters, the citizens of the Republic of Estonia. We're a higher power or power in the country. Today, directly during the debate on this bill here, but also yesterday and in some other cases I have heard the members of the Riigikogu say that, you know, we will withdraw the bill, let us not discuss it, let the government do it. Who are you here? Do you really want to be government sled lines or do you want to be members of the Riigikogu? Do you have a little bit of your pride, feeling like you're representatives of the people, not government representatives? The government represents itself here, he's coming to report to us. Act occasionally as members of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U202	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, speaking from the floor? Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U203	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! I think there's one of those moments today if we're embarrassed. Today is certainly one of those moments if we should feel it. And I'm terribly sorry about that. It is extremely unfortunate that cynicism tramples over humanity, humanity and logic, only because someone wants to put the order in his own chest and say that we did. If it is true that the question today is that the government should actually put forward such a good draft itself, then the question arises as to why they have not done so to date. If there was such a consensual decision in the Commission to support it, I would ask you today, ladies and gentlemen, not to vote in favour of this proposal, which interrupts the reading of this draft. I tried to think once about our good colleague Jüri Jaanson and think about this moment if we told him that, good Jüri, your time has not yet come, do not apply to the Riigikogu because we do not have solutions for you. We have every opportunity to be worthy of Estonia, worthy of people and ethical, so that this bill can be processed and adopted, and we should not occasionally read embarrassing excuses in the press for not doing one thing or another in the ERR. Ladies and gentlemen, we support and adopt the procedure for this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U204	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations, negotiations have been concluded. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 122, but the Centre Party Group has proposed to suspend the second reading. We are going to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act 122. Please take a stand and vote. 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 35 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was supported, so the second reading is suspended. I shall set the deadline of 20 May at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U205	Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to today's agenda. The fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces, the Law on Security Authorities and the Law on the Amendment of the Law on the Chancellor of Justice, which was initiated by the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities. I would like to ask Andres Metsoja, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U206	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U207	Ladies and gentlemen, Attention!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U208	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, I am once again before you with a law called the law of spying, but this is the second reading of Bill 152. If you look at the title of the bill, you will see that, compared to the first reading, there is also the law on security agencies. So this procedure has become wider than it was in the first place. The special committee on the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu initiated the draft under discussion on 26 February and the first reading of this draft was completed on 7 April. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 10 a.m. on 20 April. No amendments to the draft were tabled outside the lead committee. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 21 April and 4 May. At its meeting on 21 April, the National Defence Committee discussed the proposals of the Government of the Republic to amend the draft and decided to submit them by consensus as amendments to the Steering Committee. Margit Gross, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, and the representative of the Government of the Ministry of Defence, who explained the subject of the proposal of the Government of the Republic on the draft, took part in this meeting. Alar Laneman, representative of the initiator of the draft act, Chairman of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities of the Riigikogu, was also on the committee and agreed to these amendments. At its meeting on 4 May, the Committee on National Defence unanimously approved the referral of the draft to second reading, the present explanatory memorandum and the list of amendments. So there are five amendments. Most of them are of a technical nature, as this draft itself is relatively technical and legal. The most important amendment is that the Chancellor of Justice has given his position and, of course, based primarily on the position of the Supreme Court, which gave a very clear assessment of the constitutional compatibility of this draft. I'm talking about a constitutional gesture. Consequently, the Chancellor of Justice presented the proposal to the Government of the Republic, the Government to us, and we have brought him to this Chamber as an amendment from the Commission, in order to introduce further details in the context of the Security Authorities Act. Certainly, the fifth amendment, in particular, has an important role to play in order to significantly improve supervision of security authorities. It is now with this bill that supervision can be carried out by the Commander of the Defence Forces, the Ministry of Defence, the Administrative Court and also the Chancellor of Justice to ensure that in any case the persons who have been involved in the process are informed. The procedural decisions and proposals of the leading committee are as follows: the National Defence Committee decided, including at its meeting on 21 April, to submit the draft for the second reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu and the National Defence Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U209	Thank you. You have questions too. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U210	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Andres! I know all about the Riigikogu's house and procedures and I know that this may not be a matter of second reading right now, but I will ask. You're the chairman of the National Defence Commission. I, while working here in this house, have learned that the President has sent a lot of people back from these initiatives concerning the organisation of the Defence Forces, which have started here within the walls of the Riigikogu, and they have some sort of prank about why they have not come as ministerial initiatives. So is this initiative. It's already been in the hall once, and I looked in the verbatim, and now it's the nuances that the president left him unproclaimed, corrected. But my question is still, why doesn't the Department of Defense initiate defenses, they don't go through coordination circles, this procedure, which has been such a tacit agreement here for the last ten years, for sure. How do you make such precedents look like these things come from this house?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U211	Thank you. Surely, good Kalvi, that is a legitimate question. I can't comment on the last ten years, I can comment on the previous period and the ongoing period. The previous Riigikogu also dealt with the same bill and it was finally adopted. Then there was a situation where the President did not declare it a law. The Supreme Court did its own procedural rules and, in fact, just as it did last time, so this time we decided to go the same way. Indeed, if Parliament has initiated this draft law, it will do it again this time because it was a draft that was initiated by Parliament. In fact, the Commission already had discussions and arguments on the previous occasion. My colleague, Ants Laaneots, was a rapporteur for the Commission. As far as we in the Commission were able to do with hearings and engagements, so much, I think, we did. Indeed, for the sake of legal clarity, the position was clearly taken that if the President still says that there is a problem and a legal barrier, then the supreme authority as a judge is the Supreme Court, who actually creates the law and gives its explanations. This direction was consciously taken that the Supreme Court should state its clear position. The points that were used to enter the Supreme Court were very numerous. Indeed, the draft was brought back to Parliament with a clear provision that the citizen has the right to know when he has been watched over and his data has been eroded. We also have to say that, in the context of the Security Authorities Act, it is not as if our Commission has jurisdiction, it should be dealt with by other committees, but it is true that since 2001 the current regime has been in the law. Now it has been achieved that the law on security authorities must also be amended in parallel with this law in order to ensure legal clarity, the elimination of constitutional impediments and, in fact, the monitoring process. Why has it been so? I think it is a question of legal continuity that when the Riigikogu started, the same procedure was followed this time, the same procedural route. This was immediately agreed by consensus at a joint meeting held here in Parliament, at a joint meeting of the National Defence Commission and the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U212	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U213	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm looking at § 1 point 15. You can read that when someone has been studied and drilled, they may be informed after they have been declassified. But it's interesting that there's no record of how long it's been for the information to be declassified. Life has shown that many things are classified for 75 years. If you haven't left this world, maybe it's a little late to find out you've been studied. Can you be more specific?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U214	This concerns specifically the proceedings of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate or the Defence Forces, which are combined. Here it has been pointed out with such conditions that a file must be created on the whole process, when someone is being watched under cover. Once this process has been completed and there is no threat to the regime, to the life of anyone, any risk of additional data leakage, this procedure will be terminated and communicated to those involved who have been involved in the process and who have been discreetly monitored. If there is a situation that the procedure is going to be longer than one year, it is also stated that 15 days before the expiry of one year, the Commander of the Defence Forces must submit an application to the Administrative Court for the extension of that procedure. This procedure is complicated and it is precisely the court involved in this procedure. Then it goes on in the same way until the same rule is applied that the procedure is closed and it is possible to inform the parties concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U215	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U216	Thank you. I will continue on the same subject. Amendment 4 introduces an amendment to the Security Authorities Act and similarly mentions that, without delay after the information has been declassified, the parties concerned must be informed, except in certain exceptional cases. Some of these exceptional cases are obvious. If this information would put someone's rights, freedoms or life at risk, it will, of course, outweigh [other]. However, paragraph 2 states that this notification need not be made even if it jeopardises the secrecy of the security authority's means, method or tactics. My question is: how, then, are human fundamental rights and freedoms less important than the working method of some kind of institution? Is this really constitutional?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U217	Thank you. In this context, we will walk in a very sensitive landscape. It is clear that it is not possible to foresee the details of the law in this context with great precision, because then all of this would, to a large extent, be lost. We have really discussed this issue in the Committee on National Defence (including you, Oudekki, you have discussed it), we have very much grounded and linked it to the official's ethics, skills and knowledge, from the beginning of the process, so that it is precisely agreed how this procedure will be conducted. This certainly does not concern a very large number of persons; it is likely to affect relatively narrow circles. In some cases, however, there may still be a situation where a person who is involved in the process has, to a lesser or greater extent, developed a barrage on his constitutional rights. But once again: we are talking about ensuring national security, we are talking about a very specific area, and there is still an important emphasis on the quality of the work of the authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U218	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U219	Thank you. I'm still gonna ask you again. There are two issues, one is the amendment of the Defence Forces Order Act, and the other is the amendment of the Security Authorities Act. If the amendment to the Security Authorities Act really states that it will be a year and that all the processes will come, then I will not read the same thing about the amendment to the Defence Forces Order Act, so what happens if I'm being watched from morning to night? I can safely say here in the Riigikogu Chamber that several members of the Riigikogu are being eavesdropped and monitored. At one point in five years, you will be informed, i.e. you will simply receive a registered letter, it will be handed over personally, and your spouse will be most likely, and it will show that you have been watched from that time until then, and if you want to know what was done, listen to these tapes. If you have not been charged with any charges, it means that for many years you have been followed completely unreasonably. Now we're giving some kind of authority to the Defence Forces. To be honest, I fear that the Estonian state will become more a police state every day. It's really disturbing. I personally have survived this when my husband and I received such a message on Christmas Eve. It's like I don't want someone from our kids getting this message in 75 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U220	Thank you, good Aivar! I encourage you in the sense that this bill certainly regulates this area considerably more than it was regulated so far. In fact, if constitutional clashes may have occurred so far, to which the Supreme Court also pointed, there has now been a great deal of effort in this regard, both in this same law on the organisation of the Defence Forces and in the law on the security authorities covered here and in addition to the law on the Chancellor of Justice. Thanks to these changes, this process will actually be coordinated and the risks you have highlighted will be seriously mitigated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U221	Thank you. No further questions. Negotiation round. Anybody want to make a speech? There is no need to speak. Let us conclude the negotiations and review the amendments. Five amendments have been tabled to bill 152, the Defence Forces Organisation Act, the Security Authorities Act and the Act amending the Chancellor of Justice Act. The first amendment is from the Committee on National Defence; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. There are no other proposals. The second amendment is also from the Committee on National Defence and there is also a proposal to take full account of it. The third amendment is from the Committee on National Defence and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment is also from the Committee on National Defence and the proposal is to be fully taken into account. The fifth amendment is still from the Committee on National Defence, and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. No one questioned or wished to vote on any of the proposals. So we now finally have on the table the proposal of the commission to conclude the second reading of draft 152. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U222	Agenda item No 5, Draft Act 165 on the Amendment of Medical Device Act, Emergency Act and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic. Let's start reading it first. I'd like a presentation from Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U223	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will present you with a draft law amending, on the one hand, the Medical Device Act and other related laws, and, on the other hand, the Emergency Act, the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, the Health Services Organisation Act and the Health Insurance Act. Let's start with the original version of the medical device law. The European Union has so far regulated directives on medical devices, active implantable medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices, which will gradually replace two new regulations with a view to creating a more robust, transparent, predictable and sustainable legal framework across the European Union for medical devices. This would ensure better equipment safety and a high level of health care and support innovation. As regards SARS-CoV-2 virus, Regulation 2020/561 of the European Parliament and of the Council introduced an amendment to the date of application of the medical device regulation, thus medical devices, including active implantable medical devices, are regulated by Regulation 2017/745 of 26 May 2021, or MDR. The requirements for in vitro diagnostic medical devices laid down in the Medical Devices Act remain in force for the time being. It clarifies the scope of the Medical Device Act and repeals those provisions which will be covered by the new Regulation from 26 May 2021. The Medical Device Act initially retains a number of requirements for the registration of medical devices, the application for a clinical trial authorisation, or supervision, the notification of an incident, as the European Medical Devices Database has not yet reached full functionality. The draft also empowers the Health Board to issue certificates for the free sale of medical devices which are not compulsory but which may support the export of medical devices. The granting of this right is also linked to the implementation of Regulation 2017/745. For reasons of legal clarity, the Medical Device Act designates the Competent Authority for Medical Devices and the Body responsible for the Notified Body, which is the Health Board. The Agency shall be empowered, in justified cases, to allow the placing on the market of in vitro diagnostic medical devices without conformity assessment, which are necessary, for example, in crisis situations. At present, the Minister responsible for the field has such a right. In the case of other medical devices, this right will be conferred on the Health Board under the same Regulation. The Agency and the Agency are also granted the right to provide, in limited cases, paid services to ensure compliance with the quality and safety requirements of medical devices. The draft also provides technical clarifications in the Biocidal Products Act, the Waste Act and the Tobacco Act. There will be no additional impact. The Biocidal Products Act specifies the scope, the Waste Act also refers to the new Regulation for the definition of medical devices and fittings, directly to this 2017/745. While it had previously been stipulated that the requirements laid down in the Tobacco Act for electronic cigarettes and their refill containers would not apply to products subject to the requirements laid down in the Medical Device Act, in the future the medical device law refers to Regulation 2017/745. This is a technical specification which has no real impact on the substance. In addition, an amendment to the State Fees Act introduces specific state fees for the examination of the application for authorisation of clinical trials on medical devices and the issue of a free sale certificate. We do not see any significant impact on the state budget here either. I now come to the second half, which has recently received more attention, i.e. the proposals made from the COVID-19 crisis on different laws. Firstly, the draft amends the law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. The proposed amendments are necessary to ensure that, at the end of the emergency situation, the spread of the communicable disease can continue to be effectively prevented, and have a significant impact in the wider context of this outbreak, possibly also in the autumn and in future. Under current law, in order to prevent the epidemic spread of any infectious disease, the Health Board can only propose to local authorities to close schools and childcare facilities for disinfection, cleansing or health research. According to the amendments, such a right would be to take these listed measures and impose restrictions directly on the Health Board, because it is a national sector and because the Health Board is a national designated competent authority for the prevention, monitoring and control of communicable diseases, as well as for national supervision. In addition, the draft provides for the right to require the organisation of a diagnosis among persons located in a site or area where there is a risk of an outbreak. It is intended to ensure legal clarity so that there is a limit to who may be required to carry out one or the other study or diagnosis. If a person refuses to do so, he or she has the right to choose whether to go into quarantine. Diagnosis may also be required in the case of persons at the site of infection or in the case of persons suspected of being infected, i.e. "close contacts'. The Health Board is also granted the right to impose restrictions on visits to hospitals or institutions. This was something we did during the crisis in the so-called recommended key, but knowing and seeing the results both in Estonia and, above all, in other European countries, it is imperative that it be implemented uniformly across the country. It is also important to stress that if a person refuses to study or diagnose an infectious disease, as I have indicated, he or she has the right to choose a "quarantine" restriction, i.e. a restriction on freedom of movement. It is because it is not possible for people, perhaps unintentionally, to endanger the lives and health of others by spreading an infectious disease, refusing to diagnose it. Quarantine will help prevent this possibility. In a situation in which we are dealing with a particularly dangerous infectious disease, the health authority may, if strictly necessary, temporarily close establishments and businesses, prohibit the organisation of public events and meetings and impose other restrictions on movement, as well as introduce quarantine in the place of illness. Where the application of such measures and restrictions has a significant economic or social impact, the Government of the Republic shall impose such measure or restriction. Here, too, it is important to stress that the administration must, in any case, impose measures and restrictions only and only then and as long as this is strictly necessary to achieve the objective. The measure or restriction applied must be proportionate to the situation. In the case of an infectious disease which has the characteristics of a particularly dangerous infectious disease, although not listed by law, such as a disease with a high level of infection which spreads rapidly and extensively, its course may be severe or life-threatening and has no or no effective treatment available and its spread may exceed the medical capacity of hospitals, similar measures to prevent the spread of infectious disease may be applied in the future, even in the case of a particularly dangerous communicable disease. According to the draft, such an infectious disease will continue to be referred to as a novel dangerous infectious disease, including COVID-19 disease. These changes will enable the competent authority to carry out its tasks effectively and effectively, both in the light of the COVID-19 crisis and in the light of possible future similar, perhaps more, potentially less dangerous infectious diseases. The above measures and restrictions are all applicable even without an emergency, i.e. they do not require a direct emergency. However, it is clear that when we talk about the current situation and this rapidly spreading dangerous infectious disease, it probably requires the responsible agency, in this case, to identify the situation as an emergency. Under the Emergency Act, the leading authority is the Health Board, which has to deal with an emergency in the event of an epidemic of infectious diseases and widespread poisoning. The Emergency Act was based on the principle of subsidiarity, according to which crisis management should be carried out at the lowest possible level. That is why the Health Board has a leading role to play, as they have information on outbreaks, spread routes and outbreaks of infectious diseases and can also carry out epidemiological studies. The health care provider must inform the Health Service in accordance with the law. In an emergency, the Health Board will be able to implement all the measures laid down in the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, which I have previously listed. The measures proposed in this draft will also allow the Agency to react more promptly in an emergency, to avoid an emergency situation or to prevent an emergency from developing into an even large-scale emergency. In the event of an emergency, it is also possible for the Health Board to set up a better governance structure, for example, to appoint crisis staffs, etc. As we know, the emergency medical director has been appointed, this is Dr. Arkadi Popov. Changes to the Health Services Organisation Act are also related to the emergency response and only necessary to ensure legal clarity. It is stipulated that the Health Board and the Head of Emergency, under its authority, have the right to issue administrative acts for the resolution of an emergency to healthcare providers and other private legal entities for the temporary restructuring of their activities, where this is strictly necessary. The law also complements the law in the same way as the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, with the right to publish an administrative act in the media. It is a right, not an obligation, it depends on the situation, on the extent to which it concerns the part of society. In addition, the draft provides for an increase in the level of fines imposed on legal persons, the existing levels of fines being outdated on the basis of the rates of the Penal Code adopted in 2001. In view of the rise in inflation and living standards, the Penal Code has repeatedly raised the level of fines itself. At the moment, the maximum penalty rate is EUR 400000 under that law. While we are talking about this draft, we are raising the ceilings ten times, but taking into account the principle of proportionality. The maximum rate for non-compliance with the requirements for the control of communicable diseases would be up to EUR 32000 and is the highest rate according to the draft. In addition, the draft provides for a new set of misdemeanours in the event of a breach of the quarantine requirements. In today's legal space, it is also absent in isolation. Non-compliance may result in widespread damage and enforcement may not always be sufficient to deal with a fair situation. If this draft complements the Emergency Act with a provision allowing the government to give orders to an emergency authority in an emergency situation with significant economic or social impact, the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases is a special law. Thus, in the case of an epidemic and the application of the measures and restrictions to be imposed will have a significant economic or social impact, such measures and restrictions will be imposed directly by the Government of the Republic. For example, if we are talking about the quarantine of a particular county or a similar national measure, whether or not there is an emergency, the Government of the Republic would take these decisions in accordance with the amendments to the law. The bill does not entail significant costs and revenues for public authorities; we do not foresee an increase in the workload. As I referred to earlier, above all, it is important for legal clarity, for a successful exit from the emergency situation, so that the corona virus does not spread faster again, so that we do not again have legal disputes that unfortunately preceded the announcement of an emergency situation and actually continued even during the emergency situation, and we would be prepared for future crises, both for epidemics and for other emergencies, better than we have been prepared so far. The law is planned to enter into force in two parts, the so-called crisis measures in general and a number of measures concerning the medical device law on 26 May 2021. Thank you for your attention. And I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U224	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U225	Thank you. Good minister! Reading this law and knowing the speed of the procedure, there are several concerns. One is that the Riigikogu's normal procedure of discussion is ignored. There will also be very little time for the President to declare this law. But let's see what's inside. Give confidence to local governments that their autonomy will not be taken away. I don't see any involvement of local authorities anywhere here, they just go by when they make their decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U226	Thank you for your question. A perfectly legitimate theme setting. As I have pointed out before, the health sector, as well as epidemic control, is a national task. As far as I know, the Department of Epidemiological Capacity is not in any local government, which is 79 in Estonia. However, I fully agree that when we are talking about the introduction of quarantine, we are talking about other decisions restricting the rights of local authorities and perhaps imposing obligations or, on the contrary, giving rise to additional decisions, it is important to inform them immediately. I have also proposed this to the Committee on Social Affairs so that, in this light, this text, which has now come to the first reading, could really be supplemented. But I will stick to the position that has been expressed earlier in the National Defence Act that this decision, as such, should be made and made by the Health Board, because they have responsibility for preventing an epidemic in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U227	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I look at the fourth paragraph of § 28: 'The head of a child or care establishment may temporarily close the institution that he/she manages, in coordination with the Health Board. " It is very reasonable that it must be coordinated, because then the Health Board will also have information. But shouldn't it be 'owner' instead of 'leader'? The municipalities have nursing homes, but the state has them, but the private sector has them. I don't think the driver is ultimately responsible for anything when the financial gains and costs come. It should still be very clearly written 'owner' instead of 'leader'.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U228	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U229	Thank you for your question. After all, it is a question of the speed of action, the operational need, but I am more than convinced that the heads of institutions generally coordinate such decisions with the owner. It is unlikely that any leader would like to take over the so-called'speak' competence that he will make the decision and will only inform the owner afterwards. If the criticality of time allows it, it certainly communicates with the owner, but there may be situations where there is really such a rapid outbreak of disease, we may not even talk about COVID-19 disease anymore, but we are talking about some seriously contagious disease, a disease spreading much faster, a much more critical situation, that it is necessary to close the institution in real time and evacuate people. In that case, perhaps the provision that is currently in the law is more correct. But I think, in practice, that these questions will certainly be discussed with the owner, as far as the situation allows, because no driver wants to assume such responsibility for his direct boss and his employer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U230	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have been approached by a number of voters who are calling on the government to abolish 165 SEs, which is also the subject of the popular initiative, the popular initiative.ee has gathered 1054 votes at the moment. They consider that this amendment to the law violates citizens' fundamental rights and gives an office, or Health Board, enormous power. For example, on the basis of § 27, the Health Board establishes quarantine by means of its administrative act when, according to the current law, the Health Board only issued a recommendation to the local government. In essence, local authorities are now offline. The second question, of course, is that, given what incompetence I believe the Health Board has shown in the current situation, is it right now to give this authority such powers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U232	Thank you for your question. Let's start from the beginning. Today's law provides that the Health Board proposes, the local government decides. In practice, it has never been applied. This already shows the relatively low effectiveness of this point. It also shows that the municipality does not really have the right to quarantine today, which requires a prior proposal from the Health Board. In principle, the autonomy of municipalities in this view is not reduced in this way. I have communicated with a large number of local government leaders on this subject: Tallinn, Tartu, several smaller municipalities. The Association of Cities and Municipalities has also expressed an opinion, for example, on the National Defence Act, which has already been read in Parliament's proceedings, and which has exactly the same point inside in order to ensure that quarantine remains the responsibility of the Health Board and not the responsibility of the municipality. It has not seen the problem; rather, several local government leaders have seen it as quite positive that all these legal disputes must be held, the whole picture and assessment of the epidemiological situation must be taken and given by the Health Board, rather than assuming that this is done by the municipality for them, and the municipality does not have to start holding any disputes. That the municipality will be informed immediately, I think. Under normal circumstances, it will certainly be preceded by negotiations on exactly how to quarantine what to do. But once again, there may be very time-critical situations and there may be situations where 79 municipalities behave in different ways, some agree and some disagree with the proposal. Then we are once again in a very foolish situation where the government must decide whether it will impose an emergency situation in order to make any decisions for certain municipalities, or whether we will have a long debate and debate with each municipality one by one, whether it agrees with the quarantine or if it does not agree, and at the same time the contagious disease continues to spread unbridledly. As for the competence and ability of the Health Board, I think you're hurting the Health Board. I think a lot of people are actually getting hurt. The Health Board has certainly made the wrong decisions, just as they have been made in all countries in this situation. But knowing how much of this work is being done across Estonia and how much work has been done in explaining the close contacts, preparing hospitals, already earlier in this particular crisis and drawing attention to such opportunities, developing plans, I am afraid that this work, which is often not seen by the public, is much higher than the "mistakes" that the public sees and on the basis of which these assessments are often made. I think that all of these maybe wrong decisions, wrong assessments must naturally be analysed afterwards, to see what could have been done better, what these entangled behind, were recommendations from international organisations, was a matter of national competence, or was it simply a matter of haste. This must all be reviewed, but knowing the volume of decisions and actions behind the tip of this iceberg, I think that what has been done correctly has been a much greater part than what has been done wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U233	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U234	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, If someone has done very well in this crisis, it has certainly been a number of local authorities that have faced this disease. For example, Võru decided very quickly to close down its offices. I hear the Health Board didn't agree to shut them down at first, but the local government decided to do so. The municipality of Saaremaa has also done very well, as has Tartu. It is understandable that there is a question that, if we restrict the autonomy of local governments, is that correct? At the same time, the representatives of local authorities in the Commission have indeed admitted that they agree, but they want them to be informed of the decision of the Health Board as soon as possible. Does this information requirement, according to your proposal, also apply to private companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U235	Thank you for your question. This proposal, which I have sent to the Committee on Social Affairs today, does indeed provide for information to be given to a specific local authority, since it may therefore also have certain obligations, there is also a question of rights, and that is why it is based on the principle of the municipality. But I agree that if we are talking about quarantine before I spoke to the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee on this subject, for example, which concerns a specific institution, then it is undoubtedly important to involve the institution here. I think that this clarification can certainly be made into the law, and here this clarification has to be made. If we're talking about quarantine, it's a very broad concept, it could affect one person, a hundred people, a county. It is also not conceivable that, if, for example, a county goes into quarantine, there will be an obligation to inform all individual companies in that county one by one. You are probably referring specifically to the company that has been quarantined. In that case, I think it makes sense. But this addition is certainly possible in the Commission, here the wording must be considered in this view, and our house, the Ministry of Social Affairs, is certainly ready to contribute. As far as the start of your question is concerned, it was not a question, but a theme raiser, I very much agree that the local authorities have done a great deal of good work. The municipalities listed by you, as well as Tallinn, as well as many of the municipalities with whom I have been in contact during the crisis, have really understood the seriousness of the situation, have perhaps been more proactive and cautious even in case. They will continue to enjoy this right. In the future, the municipality will always have the right to close its own establishments, limit services, close children's playgrounds, set additional standards. Maybe what the Health Board is doing is kind of a minimum, you can always make more of it. No one takes that right away from the municipality with this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U236	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U237	Thank you. Good waitress! When I read this law and listen to your report, it seems to me that, by amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, you want to de facto give the government emergency powers without declaring an emergency situation. Let us look at the same fifth paragraph of § 28, according to which the Health Board may impose restrictions on the closure of establishments and businesses, prohibit meetings, impose restrictions on movement, and if they have a large impact on the economy or society, they shall be imposed by the government in its own way. I have a number of questions. What is the role of Parliament in this situation? Why is it so urgent to process this bill? If this law were already in force, what would the current situation look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U238	Thanks for the questions. I guess this bill is a multifaceted bill, and I'm pretty much in agreement with that. On the one hand, we are talking here about the rights of the Health Board, we are talking here about the rights of the government in an epidemic situation, and we are also talking about the rights of the government in an emergency situation in general. There are at least three starting angles. As far as the granting of rights is concerned, no, it does not equate it to an emergency situation. In an emergency situation, there are also a number of [topics], it is a matter of ownership or other rights that are present. There is also a fundamental difference that, in the case of an emergency, one person, or emergency manager, will manage the whole situation. The fact that Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has decided to be democratic as the head of emergency, involving nine ministers in the COVID-19 committee with him, I think, is a very sensible direction, it is a broad-based direction, it allows questions to be discussed about the health view, the education view, the national defence and internal security perspective, but purely theoretically it still means that when we talk about the amendment of the emergency law and the specific legislative proposal, then in this case the government would be collegially decisive, the government, where necessary, places a county quarantine, the government, in a collegial way, gives orders to an emergency management body in the event of a major social and economic impact. It certainly makes management more broad-based than theoretically may be at a time of emergency when, in principle, one person has the right to make all these decisions and make decisions to an even greater extent than the government could have in an emergency. You ask what would be the situation now and what will it be like in the future. That is, above all, a point of law. There will be no situation where lawyers at the Chancellery of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Chancellery of Justice, the State Chancellery will have to interpret one, two or three laws that have never been applied in practice, and then they will have to decide whether, for example, quarantine may or may not be imposed by the Health Board, in which case only if there is a particularly dangerous infectious disease, or even if there is no such disease, but if there is a new infectious disease in which separate measures must be developed. This is not specifically specified in the law. After all, these disputes went far, including the question of restricting scheduled private health care. Letters were exchanged on this subject, both publicly and informally. I don't think this is the best practice. If there is an emergency or an emergency, there is an urgent need to make decisions, then it is in everyone's interest to have legal clarity about what can be done by the Government, which may be done by the Health Board, which may be the Head of Emergency, and which they must not do, and at which point the Government has the right to give any emergency management authority, it is the Environmental Board, the PBA, the Rescue Board, the RIA, the Veterinary and Food Board, the Health Board or the Defence Police Department, any arrangements to carry out one or another operation. I think it is reasonable and necessary to create legal clarity here, and it provides an opportunity for certain measures that are in force today, the limitation of public events, is this quarantine if necessary, for example, these are restrictions on movement, and we are not talking here about anyone having to stay at home, but about the 2+2 principle and other approaches that help limit the spread of infection, regardless of the fact that the special situation hopefully ends on the 18th of May.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U239	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U240	Good manager! Good waitress! It is clear that this is a very dangerous disease, for which this special situation has been declared, and the Health Board, even though its managers do not suffer any criticism, should receive more competence and legal clarity. But when you read this text, it turns out that it's like mash and cabbages together. Even in the explanatory memorandum and in this table it says that it doesn't really understand what it's written all about. All these euro regulations and 26 May, when it has to be okay. But I will read a quote and explain to me what it is necessary to understand: 'We do not believe that the regulation (MDR) falls under the MSS or the TNVS conflict of laws, because the current regulation also includes the general law of the TNVS and the MSS is a special law in this respect. " What does it mean in the language of the earth, and is all of this needed? Maybe it would have helped with a little correction of the emergency law. These sections are pretty clear, but the medical equipment and all that, I think, is the kind of mush and cabbages hung on these ears to change the emergency law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U241	Thanks! We have, don't we, consolidated draft laws, one was at first for the medical device law and other related laws, the other was specifically related to the crisis. This particular extract concerned the medical device law, from which the abbreviation MSS came. MDR is a European Union regulation. I agree that, in the explanatory notes, I myself have looked at the use of the abbreviations, on the one hand, is understandable, perhaps saving some paper and therefore environmental resources, but if they are used too loudly and so used that the explanatory memorandum is very long and maybe no one remembers what these abbreviations meant at the end of the explanatory memorandum, then it can cause a lot of confusion and difficulties in interpretation. In this sense, I accept the criticism that the explanatory notes could be written in a broader way in this view to understand what is really meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U242	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U243	Thank you. I'll come back to my last question. In your reply, you said that the local government would be informed immediately. We're coming to today's situation. We have a situation where the leader of the largest government, your own party partner, Mayor Mikhail Kõlvart, constantly whistles to government orders, gives some orders. Says we'll open later and we'll do it differently. However, could it not involve local government leaders in the decision-making process in order to avoid such situations? In an emergency, people still need clarity of messages, not cross-fertilisation, and local self-government autonomy should also be respected. Couldn't that be the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U244	Yes, I fully agree with the involvement of local governments. Under normal circumstances [this will be done] and even during the crisis, when there was a much wider decision, it was a matter of quarantine in Saaremaa or quarantine in the islands, then all these municipalities received a call from the emergency manager, the Prime Minister, and the matter was discussed. Their crisis committees were those who specifically proposed quarantine, precisely to preserve and protect the health of their islanders. But there may always be situations where a particular municipality may not be so responsive or understanding or a particular infectious disease does not allow such a long process of involvement. In such a case, it is indeed appropriate to inform immediately in order to avoid a situation where the municipality may start to prevent a particular contagious disease from being restricted and its spread may accelerate, to reach the territory of other municipalities, which may have acted very responsibly, taking the necessary steps, but because of the specific nature of decisions taken by a single municipality or city, they can also be affected. As far as Tallinn is concerned, cooperation here has been very good. The fact that local governments, Tallinn, Tartu and others have made more decisions themselves, I think, is only welcome. Each municipality must feel its own peculiarity, which is particularly reasonable on the ground, which is not. I also referred before, the Health Board and the government provide a standard or a minimum set for everyone. If a municipality feels that it does not want to open playgrounds, for example, yet, or libraries are located in a cultural centre or other area where it feels unable to protect a person's health or to comply with 2+2 requirements, then it really has the right to keep them closed. This right has also been exercised, and I do not see any concern in it, but rather the principle of respect for the autonomy of the local authorities that you have described. The state does not dictate when to open, either through the Health Board or through the Head of Emergency, but tells when to open, and the municipality decides whether to open it or open it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U245	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U246	Thank you. A good colleague here began with the clarity of the messages that the people of Estonia really expect from the Riigikogu, the government and all the agencies, especially in critical situations. In addition to the clarity of the message, the laws must also be comprehensible to the population. Minister, you have said several times that the purpose of this draft is to ensure legal clarity. Hence my question, which we did not receive an answer to yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs. We imagine a situation in which the local government takes advantage of the legislation that the law on law enforcement provides to prevent and control the threat and makes an administrative act with its restrictive measures. At the next moment, the Health Board decides, on the condition that the local government is involved, but nevertheless, to issue its administrative act. If this situation has a major impact, the Government of the Republic will once again be entitled to issue an administrative act. Then, in the middle of all this, the head of the child or care establishment coordinates with the Health Board and issues his or her administrative act, shuts the institution down. What legislation must people be guided by? Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U247	Thank you for your question. Once again, I come to the letter that I sent today to the Social Affairs Committee. There I also pointed out that when we talk about the acts issued by the government and the Health Board, the legislation given by the government is always "embarrassing" or "supervising" and "complying." If, for example, the Act issued by the Health Board differs in some respects, then it will be void in that regard. As far as municipalities are concerned, this is indeed not specified in the specific law. As I said before, the municipality has the right to do somewhat more and somewhat less. But, of course, when we talk about epidemic control, when we talk about specific acts under the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, the Health Board is more superior and, in turn, more superior to the Government of the Republic, which makes sense. In other words, if any other work arrangements are shared below, other decisions made which have been smaller, then what has come from the Health Board or the Government must be complied with. In the event that more extensive decisions have been taken, of course no one will cancel them. As I said before, neither the Health Board nor the government will dictate that you have to open the doors tomorrow, but he will tell you when you can open them and when you can't open them. But whether you open them on that particular date or whether you do any further restrictions is up to you. More can always be done, but no less can be done than the Health Board or the Government of the Republic requires by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U248	Thank you, Mr President and Minister. Paragraph 59 (6) and (7) of the [Health Services Management Act] is amended. We're always talking about giving rights to the Health Board. In fact, the right is granted to the Health Board or, under his authority, to an emergency medical director. I don't know who we have to thank for the emergency medical director Arkadi Popov. Thanks to him, I think we're in a reasonable position here. But what arises is that we may have an administrative act issued by the Health Board (I don't know if it's the manager or who it's on the side of the Health Board, there may be several board members) or on his authority, an emergency medical director. They may grant administrative acts to legal persons governed by private law for the purposes of temporary restructuring and limitation of their activities. This individual may be harmed because the emergency medical officer or the Health Board has made such a decision. The government has taken a decision and has tried to compensate for these losses to some extent by means of an additional budget. We have sensed that the administration of the Health Board has made only foolish decisions, especially when I look at Saaremaa, how he didn't allow...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U249	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U250	Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U251	Who, then, will cover these expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U252	This always depends on whether a specific act is legitimate, whether it is necessary. You brought specific references. There is really a presumption that they are absolutely necessary to control a specific epidemic. No such decision is made lightly, not simply because of decision, but because of the medical indication, the epidemiological situation and the recital. Every person and company is always entitled to claim reimbursement of expenses by court if they so wish, which is the right to continue. But, as has been said, the logic that an emergency medical director is entitled, for example, to give orders to a particular institution, including the private sector, is primarily based on the public health interests of all of us. Maybe I'll give you an extreme example. The hospital is full of people, we see that we do not have a place to "keep patients," but next to a private gym. The emergency medical director has the right to say that he or she needs to use this gym to accommodate the sick. Of course, in the normal situation, the main aim is to negotiate with the owner of the institution, the manager, but if this fails, it is right to oblige: please open this door, I need to place the sick here. Such a right shall be exercised by the emergency medical officer when necessary to resolve an emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U253	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Committee on Social Affairs has discussed this draft, I understand, at least twice, if not more. One of these discussions gave me the opportunity to take part as an alternate, and the same issue arose concerning interference with the autonomy of the local government. When I asked how representative the opinion of the local governments was, the answer was that six municipalities had been asked for an opinion, including Tallinn. As we know, there are 79 municipalities in Estonia. Can you answer this question again and say how representative the opinion of local authorities on this draft is?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U255	Thank you for your question. I really mentioned those specific municipalities who had been able to give feedback during this night and morning. As I referred to earlier, in the National Defence Act, which is in Parliament's proceedings, as far as I know, it passed the first reading in December, it is a specific point concerning quarantine. The Association of Cities and Municipalities has also given its feedback on this, where it has not seen it as a problem. Similarly today, when we are talking about an alliance of cities and municipalities, it is that the Health Board should inform the municipality, the municipality should in any case be informed of the decisions, but they do not require that the municipality should be the one who makes these decisions. Now for that particular reference you made. Indeed, at the time, the representative of the Ministry of Justice sent this [proposal] to the revision working group of the Local Government Organisation Act, which has 31 members (different local governments, associations of municipalities and cities, National Audit Office, Chancellor of Justice, Universities and Ministries) and has been used to quickly answer questions about local governments. This working group, as has been said, deals with the issues of local government organisation and gives feedback by morning. Perhaps during this night and morning, or rather evening and morning, only supporting views had come, of course, as has been said, referring to the need for information and other things. But I have not seen any municipalities yet, certainly, among the 79 there may be those who would have sent an estimate that it is it that it is it that it must be it that it is it that has the right to decide what quarantine is necessary at the moment to limit the spread of the contagious disease and what is not necessary at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U256	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U257	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! My question is: why are we discussing this draft as an urgent matter today? Why couldn't we have started discussing this bill weeks ago? At the beginning of March, Mr Riisalo, in the Committee on Social Affairs, raised the question of whether we should change the law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases with a view to the future. The Ministry replied that they might come in the autumn with the intention of an amendment proposal. What prevented this bill from being sent to the Riigikogu earlier so that we could have discussed it at a normal pace?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U258	Thank you again for a valid question. Of course, it would have been better if we had come to this sooner. I have no doubt about that. It would be even better if we had come to that a year ago. But as far as the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases as a whole is concerned, the Government and the Ministry of Social Affairs have indeed planned to come to this law as a whole in the autumn, but, as usual, crises are coming faster than a person catches up, perhaps there is a time-critical need to make certain clarifications in the law earlier and urgent. So far, there was a debate between the government and the ministries, between the State Chancellery, between the people of the legal field, and now we have reached a consensus with this debate, or the final line. The specific text of the draft law was forwarded to the Social Affairs Committee and reached Parliament. Of course, it would have been better if we had been able to do all this faster and sooner, but just as Parliament has a lot of work to do in times of crisis, the government and ministries also have a lot of work to do. Inevitably, legislative issues were just one of those that took their time, but also very many other areas and other fast actions also needed attention, and we reached this bill now that we arrived. I'm sorry he's here so urgent, but urgency doesn't make it any less important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U259	Thank you. Mr. Swing! This bill is certainly controversial. But the assessment of him also depends on the assessment of the Health Board. In the crisis, it tends to be that the mob is formed by heroes and antiheroes. Somehow it turns out that the Health Board has become an antihero and Arkad's Popov, who has served him, a hero. These opinions also run very clearly within political parties, not along the borders of political parties. Here a colleague recently cursed how this profession needs a restaurant and so on. Yesterday it was very sympathetic to listen to Arkadi Popov when he actually gave support to the Health Board, because I think this office too is being harmed. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister suddenly said that this was also one of Arkadi Popov's reasons for commenting on the Ugly Health Board. This is your area of administration. Do you think he's done well with this job, does he need a restaurant and a blood exchange, and whatever those words have been?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U260	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U261	Thank you for your question. In this sense, I agree that everything, as has been said, can be done better and that the Health Board definitely needs to be strengthened. The Agency was certainly not prepared for such a wide-ranging crisis, just as many European and world countries were not prepared for it. Today I was just looking at some fresh information about an apology for cheating, 3.75 million people known to have had COVID-19 disease, in fact this number is definitely several times higher. Twenty-six thousand people are dead. It is certainly not the Health Board that initiated the global pandemic and this disease would certainly have reached Estonia regardless of how many sports competitions took place or did not take place in Saaremaa. Well, we know that he had already arrived here by that point, we know 118 specific people who have brought him here from abroad, certainly there were more. Somehow to limit the Estonian people's foreign land in February, I think, would have been an insurmountable challenge. To explain to people in a situation where there were 40 sick people in Europe as a whole that we are restricting your right to spend school holidays abroad, I think that the Head of the Health Board and the Health Board would have been crucified immediately. At that point, indeed, there were others in favour of the World Health Organisation and of the European Centre for the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, and they changed very quickly, unfortunately towards disadvantages, just as the epidemiological situation in the world changed. Quite quickly, in the middle of March, we reached the outbreak of a global pandemic and also the announcement of an emergency situation in Estonia. I think that this analysis is definitely ahead of us to make the work of the Health Board and the analytical side stronger, to improve the capacity to critically assess also reports coming from abroad, risk assessments, as well as closer cooperation in the social protection and health care sectors. I think that the picture of Estonian nursing homes, for example, is not bad at all. We have detected infection in 26 of the more than 200 service providers, the picture being relatively satisfactory compared to many of us with far more prosperous countries, where the death rate of nursing home clients has accounted for the majority of all deaths. We have actually done well moderately so far. Infection testing is being carried out, cooperation is being carried out, but it would certainly be better. For the autumn, and for the future at all, we need to look at how closer cooperation in the health and social fields looks, namely to protect groups at risk, they are childcare facilities or they are social welfare institutions. The fact that the specific corona virus and COVID-19 disease have been somewhat milder among children than among the elderly is, in a way, a coincidence; in the future, there may be a different disease, the effect of which is quite different. We also need to be prepared to protect children's institutions, child welfare institutions, disabled children and, of course, all children and adults in Estonia more effectively than necessary. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yes, all this requires that cooperation between the Health Board and the social protection sector should also be stepped up. So I think that, at the end of this crisis, of the emergency situation and, in fact, at this time, one of our first tasks is to make a mapping, which is the necessary changes. This concerns the division of labour between different institutions, the issue of functions, the question of structure. But I do not agree with these views to accuse a single profession and a single manager, also knowing how this agency has dealt with a wide range of areas over the years: the competition of family doctors, environmental safety, air, health and water issues, laboratory equipment issues, medical devices. It has not been an institution that has regularly dealt with the eradication of epidemics and with crisis management on such a scale. This has inevitably been a new challenge for them and they have, in my opinion, managed to do so satisfactorily by involving the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Institute for Health Development, other public authorities. But surely now that we know that this virus can come back in the fall, we need to be better prepared and the changes definitely need to be made during the summer period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U262	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U263	Thank you to the President-in-Office. Thank you for your speech and your answer to the Minister. I believe that for all of us, where we've come to be, there is a lesson. But in order for this lesson not to be so painful, I ask you that only viruses are not the ones that could cause a crisis. There's a lot of risks in the air that we'll never see. Even radiation damage, we have institutions working around nuclear power, we have a neighbour who doesn't have very good access to safety, there are bacterial opportunities, even biological weapons. Do we have, and where are the specific strategic plans prepared when there is, for example, a radiation problem, as was the case in Chernobyl? I first learned what the truth was when I was in advanced training in disaster medicine in America at the beginning of my independence. Do we have a clear plan, then what happens, who is going to do what, so that we are not in a situation where we have to go in a hurry, to make additions to a bill that doesn't fit in well with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U264	Thank you for your question. A well-founded theme raiser. We really do have emergency response plans for emergencies that are more likely to occur in different areas, for example, in the health field, for example, for epidemics and poisoning, and there are different mass disorder issues and others that go into the competence of either the PBA, the Rescue Board or other bodies. We have a total of seven agencies that have been ordered to draw up, develop these plans for different emergencies, most of them confirmed at government level, not all of them. To this conclusion, or rather, the same logical result, we in the COVID-19 committee have also reached that, if we are to start taking stock of the crisis quite soon, we certainly cannot focus on the epidemic alone, can we, in fact, and prepare for the fact that the lightning suddenly strikes the same place for a second time? We know that it may happen that the next crisis will be completely different. We only had the issue of blackout in South Estonia, the question of generators, the issue of independent, autonomous electrical capacity of gas stations. The next situation, just like you said, could be some sort of poisoning, some kind of pollution, any mass disorder, a flood. There's a lot of threats, there's a lot of emergencies that can happen. If we start looking at national reserves, for example, in addition to emergency plans, different stocks, too, we need to think that not only do we have personal protective equipment in place to control the epidemic and the medicines for this disease, but we need to have these supplies on a larger scale, these generators, these medicines, these personal protective equipment, these other things that the state can stock up, collect and also think through in cooperation with the private sector. In this sense, this debate must certainly be made much wider. I very much hope that, for the next crisis, any crisis it will come to be, we will be better prepared than that again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U265	Thank you for this opportunity. Urgentness in the procedure for this draft is one of the things that has caused concern, but now the priorities. On 6 April the Government of the Republic submitted the flag act to the Riigikogu in order to allow the flags to fly on Children's Protection Day. Until 1 June, there are two months left to process this flag. It's great if that's the case, but the world doesn't turn out to be a different place, today, in this critical situation. On 29 April, you submitted a draft, which must enter into force on 18 May, with 20 days to go. We will consider the necessity of these matters: to come out of the emergency situation and to get a new clearer legal base versus child protection day for the flag day... on which there are two drafts already in the Riigikogu. [[A voice from the hall.]] But you can comment on that. The question is what situation we want to achieve. People want to know, not about the legal situation, but what happens on 18 April, why we have to deal with this law so quickly, what we want to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U266	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U267	On May 18th, I assume you mean that. Let's start at the beginning, let me comment. As far as the flag law is concerned, this is really the subject we dealt with before the emergency situation. The time it entered the government's agenda is due to the usual round of coordination of drafts and procedural practice. I can assure you that we were not working on this draft during the crisis, this initiative came in December, if I am not mistaken, if the Alliance for Child Welfare also turned to me, asking if I would support such a proposal. I supported, we jointly submitted this proposal to the Social Affairs Committee with the various political groups of the Riigikogu, and we started to develop this draft in the Ministry of Social Affairs in cooperation with the other ministries. It was a question of the winter months. Okay. But the fact that he is only in Parliament in April is an interesting coincidence. As far as the situation we want to achieve is concerned, first and foremost, we all want and hope, of course, that it is not only a seasonal infectious disease, but it is suddenly, like the previous SARS, a disease that does not come back. Whether we achieve this, unfortunately, is not just up to us. The virus's spread is global. We are really officially talking about less than 4 million infected, in fact maybe 10 million or more infected, probably more. I guess we can't even reset it. I would very much hope that Dr. Popov was right, who said knowingly, yesterday, that perhaps he wouldn't come back. That's the main place we're going to be, if you ask me that. What is realisticly feasible with a specific law is that we have a clear legal framework that can be done by the Health Board, which can be done by the Government of the Republic. For example, so that quarantine does not result in a situation where, once again, different authorities have to argue with each other, who is entitled and who is not entitled to do so. All of this gives us the opportunity to keep the spread of this virus under control, to react quickly to regional outbreaks, to impose further restrictions or to maintain today's restrictions, is the 2+2 principle, etc., and gives us the opportunity to leave the emergency situation, which will certainly also have a positive impact on the business environment, the psychological situation of people and, more broadly, on Estonian society. [[A voice from the hall.]] I don't think I understand the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U268	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U269	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question concerns § 27 (3) of the Law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. The current law explicitly states that the quarantine is imposed by the local government unit on the proposal of the Health Board, which makes perfect sense, because according to the Constitution, local government has a full right to decide independently on the issues of local life. But the first part of the amendment says that quarantine will be imposed by the Health Board by an administrative act. Perhaps the Health Board goes essentially to local municipality amplifiers. This is, in my opinion, a slight amendment to the Constitution. But if you do not have the will to gain power, please name those municipalities that have not completed the quarantine period, so that they must be deprived of this right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U270	Thank you for your question. I answered it once, I'd be happy to answer it again. Today, as you know, correct if I'm wrong, no local authority has ever provided for any quarantine on the proposal of the Health Board. I do not know this situation, nor could my colleagues identify it. Today's quarantines have been established by order of the emergency manager. The emergency manager has decided on them and negotiated them with the municipalities in advance. As regards the amendment proposed in the draft law, of course, the municipality has a very considerable force and the right to organise life on its territory, but the infectious disease does not know the limits of local governments. The infection is not only spread in one of 79 municipalities, it is a national problem, it is often an international problem. According to the law, the area of health is a national task, epidemic control is the task of the Health Board, developing the relevant competence, taking action, etc. Indeed, as I referred to earlier, the same proposal has been made during the procedure of the National Defence Act, this draft has also passed the first reading in the Riigikogu, it has been coordinated with the Association of Cities and Municipalities, and it has now been further discussed separately. Neither the Association of Cities and Municipalities nor the Municipalities with whom I have been in contact, including Tallinn, Tartu and several small municipalities, have claimed this right, but rather they have seen it as a plus when the agency responsible for the field of emergency is taking these decisions, and if necessary they have legal disputes. Then the possibility that, for example, as has been said in 79 municipalities, 22 agree with the proposal, 35 want time to think, and some are divisible. In order to avoid situations where the government needs to start putting in place an emergency situation again, I think it makes sense that this is going to be the law of the Health Board. As stated in this law, when we are talking about very extensive quarantines, extensive effects, such as the quarantine of counties, these matters are already decided by the Government of the Republic, where, without doubt, according to the general electoral logic of Estonia, at least two or no more political parties are represented as a rule. There will certainly be a wide-ranging debate, if necessary and possible, also when communicating with the local government. I don't see the danger here of anyone being so massively affected by the autonomy of local governments. Nor has the Union of Cities and Municipalities, the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice, or any Ministry that has participated in the drafting of this draft, nor the Government of the Republic, which has supported this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U271	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U272	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll come back to that porridge and the cabbages. In fact, about two and a half pages of this 11-page bill concern the so-called urgent matter, the regulation of the activities of the Health Board, etc. This is an amendment to the Emergency Act and to the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. But this overmeat, all sorts of medical devices, and everything that's grafted in here, what was it for? To blur the entire text of this bill? If you look at the purpose of this law, there's nothing to be said about it, the Health Board. It has been said that Regulation No 2017/745 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2001/83, Regulation No 178/2002 and Regulation No 1223/2009 and repealing Council Directives 90/385 and 93/42 will apply from 26 May. It is clearly stated what the purpose of the law is. None...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U273	Wait, the question might come up now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U274	The question is why such a mess. There could be two and a half pages clearly regulating the activities of the Health Board and preventing infectious diseases. There could be another law on the so-called maintenance and use of medical devices. Why are such mush and cabbages put together? Especially when it's urgent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U275	Thank you for your question. However, the order has been the other way around. First of all, it was Parliament's procedure to amend the medical device law and other related laws. It was here as the original text and also as the explanatory memorandum, which, I think, is the explanatory memorandum from which the purpose of the law you read out comes. Now, for the first reading, the same law has been prepared with additions, in a modified form, to which really the emergency law, the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases and other related laws, which are time-critical and specifically concern the prevention of the spread of the coronavirus, have been added, supported by the government and submitted to the Social Affairs Committee by the Minister. Accordingly, there is also a revised explanatory memorandum, namely the Emergency Act, the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, the Health Services Organisation Act and the Health Insurance Act. There are also justifications for these points in the explanatory memorandum as well as an additional text of the draft law, where these laws are indeed together. There's been a line, yes, the other way around. The fact that it may raise questions, I understand perfectly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U276	Before I give the floor to Kristina Šmigun, I will remind everyone that there is one minute for the question. Two minutes will come from the floor during the negotiations. So please ask a question more or less within this one minute. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U277	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that if there was an emergency situation in Estonia, the emergency manager would be right if there were not enough hospital places, to ask sports clubs or companies to release their rooms. In this short period of time, have you also thought through the support measures that will compensate these sports clubs or companies for their losses?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U278	Thanks! In fact, that was the answer to the emergency medical officer. Now, Dr Arkadi Popov has been appointed as the medical director of the emergency, and the specific bill that exists today in Parliament gives him the right to give orders both to health care institutions and to private institutions, if it is strictly necessary to control the epidemic and prevent further spread of infection. In that case, in theory, he has that right. Hopefully, we won't need it, our hospital system is big enough, we've managed to hospitalize all patients with a so-called backup in the COVID-19 departments, including, if necessary, the Defence Forces field hospital. But, for example, maps have indeed been made for the possible use of schools and other spaces, should this need arise. Of course, this must be done as a first advantage always in cooperation with the owner of the space, in cooperation with the local government. But the concept of emergency is very broad. An emergency can be local, an emergency can be national, an emergency can be very widespread. Such moments can, I hope, never occur if it is necessary to decide very quickly where, as a result of a specific accident, for example, patients to be temporarily placed in a safe place, for example, until they are able to disperse them in hospitals, or if the hospital is full or contaminated for any reason, there are bad radiation indicators or the spread of some of the infections, as referred to earlier. Of course, it is appropriate and reasonable that the State also compensates for the additional costs after that. This is what we have actually done today, in times of emergency, these are the commercial rental combinations, it is to compensate for the additional costs of the health sector, it is to compensate for religious activities, the work of congregations, it is to do with the cultural sector, the rural sector. I think that this logic must probably be so that in times of emergency, in times of emergency, there may be a need to make rapid decisions and compensatory mechanisms should come up with a not too long delay, but maybe not always right now, at the same time, because it simply may not be possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U279	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U280	Thank you. Good minister! It is certainly very important that we are prepared to manage the next epidemic better and more effectively. I think that's where the law is headed. When I listened to Signe Riisalo's question, however, I was strengthened in the understanding that with this amendment to the law, the government would receive largely the same powers as the current head of emergency and could also use them through the Health Board. Perhaps you will specify what these measures could be, which will remain in force even after the emergency situation has ended? That is a question that Signe Riisalo asked. Perhaps to clarify from a backward perspective, when was the last crisis exercise that tested the crisis plan for the management of the epidemic?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U281	The exact date of the crisis study on the management of the epidemic, I will tell you frankly, I cannot say. There is one thing about exercises involving authorities and hospitals, they are being done more closely, and sometimes they are also at government level. At government level, I have participated in various exercises, but rather during the previous government, rather than at present. As far as these measures are concerned, there are some concrete examples. For some time, implementation of the 2+2 principle is likely to be necessary, at least for some time a ban on visiting nursing homes is necessary, and also in the case of hospitals. Of course, the hospital is right if it is able to guarantee health protection, the use of personal protective equipment, to make certain exceptions, but it is rather reasonable and justified to reduce overall visits. Similarly, it is necessary that there should be a right to continue quarantines in order to be clearly stated in the law which sets them, which at the moment is the Health Board, which is currently the Government of the Republic. There are some concrete measures. Perhaps there is also a clear example of allowing public events. As we know at the moment, the ban on public events is legally valid for as long as the emergency situation ends, as they have been banned by order of the Head of State. If the emergency is over, theoretically, they're allowed. In fact, we have taken a clear course of action, I think it is a reasonable course of action, like so many countries, that it is unreasonable to organise public events either in May or probably in June, rather than perhaps in July-August when the situation has improved, and then probably limit the number of participants. Indeed, in order to impose all such restrictions so that the local government or the Health Board should not ban each individual event individually, regulate each individual event separately, it makes sense to support a specific draft law, to give the possibility to impose such restrictions and standards across the country. Then all event organisers will also have a clear understanding of what is allowed and what is not allowed, what amount of events can be planned, what month they can be planned and whether they can be planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U282	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U283	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I see that the Health Board can decide on so-called sanctions and also on how effective they are, but we still have § 192 and 193 of the Penal Code. Who will make these decisions specifically, whether they are based on this coercion, EUR 32000 is the upper limit for a legal person, or § 192 and 193 of the Penal Code?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U284	The specific draft law sets out the penalty rates applicable to non-compliance with specific orders, such as ignoring or failing to comply with legislation for the prevention and control of communicable diseases. However, the level of fines is specified in a specific law and must be based on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U285	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U286	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! How many crisis exercises in the government, or cabinet, have today's government carried out, on what subjects they have been on, and how many ministers have participated in this crisis exercise once it has taken place?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U287	I have to admit, during a particular government, I have not personally participated in any of the lessons of the crisis. We've had plans. For some reasons, including the spread of the virus, some of the preparatory actions and planned actions for the crisis have been delayed. As has been said, during the previous government, as well as during the Jüri Ratas government, certain exercises of crisis took place. If there is a desire to have an accurate overview of the topics, I must specify with the State Chancellery the extent to which information can be released and the extent to which the plot and everything can be described. Then I can give you an answer in writing if I have an interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U288	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U289	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Tanel! You've worked in this house for a long time with you in your second-floor office drinking coffee enough, you know the rules and customs of this house. I now have a question that was asked by Peter Ernits. There really are two things like mush and cabbages, as Peter said, put together. Perhaps Tõnis, as a young, so-called fresh member of the Riigikogu, does not know these practices. What advice did you give Tõnis? Why didn't you do it as a separate law? It could have been handled here in exactly the same time, if it had been necessary, emergency sessions would have come. If it is necessary, the Riigikogu will meet. Now we are setting a precedent, which was also in 2012, but we have been trying to change it in recent years so that no such clusters are made. But now we're putting it together. We understand that this bill is needed, but it could have been done in a civilized way. What advice did you give Tõnis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U290	Thank you for your question. I've really worked here for a few years, not as long as you think, but still. As far as draft laws are concerned, it is indeed the practice and practice that, when putting draft laws together, they are placed in alphabetical order, so they are here at the moment that we start with the Biocidal Products Act, followed by the Emergency Act, the Waste Act, etc. I'm sure it's more difficult to read. On the other hand, the explanatory notes are made separately precisely because a person is able to read very clearly what is specifically in one law or another and why is being amended. The aim was to complete the reading of the bill as soon as possible. We also followed this principle that if we could change the law before the first reading, i.e. before today's reading in Parliament, it would still be much more legally correct than, for example, if there had been such radical, large-scale changes between two readings. However, at the moment, the whole text has come here in a new form, given all these legislative changes, and the Social Affairs Committee has been able to discuss this matter at least three times, as far as I know. As far as I know, tomorrow is the fourth time to be discussed. Debates have been held, we are having this debate here today. I think that legally, it would always be more correct, simpler and better if there was enough time to deal with them separately, but I really proposed that these drafts be dealt with together as a result of the timetable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U291	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U292	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. During this time of emergency, the chain of governance has worked in such a way that the Health Board, led by the Director-General, is at the top of it you are the Minister responsible for the field, the Minister for Social Affairs, and you, in turn, have the Prime Minister as the head of the crisis situation. We can make different assessments at different levels at different times, but the sum of the sum of this chain of controls we have suppressed this virus. My question is this: why do you now want to continue, after the emergency situation has ended, to make the two upper parts become a collegial, abstract government of the Republic? Should it not instead be the minister responsible for the field or the Prime Minister who specifically gives these orders? Of course, the government collectively discusses them, just as headquarters does in the military, but orders are still given by a leader who is in the right place in this chain.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U293	Thank you for your question. I really think that today's emergency management scheme with the COVID-19 government committee was the right approach. Now that the COVID-19 disease is at least temporarily suppressed, due to the responsible behaviour of all Estonian residents, good cooperation between the government and the health sector and other public authorities, it is possible to go on to a somewhat more broad-based management, i.e. leave to the government the right to take national, large-scale decisions with a social and economic impact, and leave to the Health Board the right to make individual decisions according to the law, as clearly stated in terms of legal clarity, what they can do at the moment. I think that the appointment of a specific dormitory quarantine should not be the decision of the Government of the Republic; this could be the decision of the Health Board in particular. That's more reasonable, it's urgent, it's an individual decision, it doesn't require a cabinet meeting. When we are talking about quarantined a county, when we are talking about banning nationwide public events, for example, I do not very well imagine the Minister of Social Affairs alone or the Health Board alone would do so. After all, its impact extends to the territory of all municipalities and extends to a wide range of sectors: the Ministry of Culture sector, education, the social sector, the economy, whatever. In such cases, the fact that the government as a whole, collegially making these decisions, I think, is reasonable, avoids possible disputes both in public and between ministries and ensures clarity. Maybe the guidance scheme doesn't change, I think, considerably longer, it gets more broad-based. But even now there were nine ministers in the COVID-19 Commission, which is where the Prime Minister actually applied a democratic governance culture rather than making decisions alone. I think that in the future it will be reasonable for the government to negotiate these matters and, if necessary, operationally, quickly, decisions in the form of individual acts can continue to be taken by the Health Board. I can assure you that, as Minister of Social Affairs, I am, of course, constantly in the process of making these decisions myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U294	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U295	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Am I on the right path, thinking that if, for example, we now have a second wave and it is still important to avoid direct contact, then e-cigarette shops will still be able to contact the Health Board directly, because the Health Board assumes that the primary is to avoid direct contact, rather than a disproportionate and meaningless ban on distance selling in the country for 10 months?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U296	It's always possible to turn around. Thank you for your question. I honestly admit that in the area of health, I do not see a very strong link between the use of e-cigarettes and the eradication of infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U297	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U298	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your previous reply, I think there was an important truth. I am actually surprised that the Government of the Republic, which gathered after the elections, has not conducted any crisis exercises. I think there is also a key to why this crisis communication between ministers went so far. One of the things that stood out is that it was difficult for the Health Board to act when ministers started sending such different signals. [I say this], not to justify a hundred percent of their activities, but simply to point out that the system did not work. If a good colleague referred to the way in which the Minister of Foreign Affairs could be held responsible, it would actually mean that in the light of this law, the Minister of Social Affairs is proposing to the Government of the Republic and these things are being carried out as they are. Are you admitting that it was a mistake that the government had not actually practiced how to cope with the crisis and that this led to many errors in the agencies as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U299	With regard to the specific crisis of the corona virus, looking again at the comparison with the countries of the world, with the European countries, with the Nordic countries, we all know that Estonia's situation is relatively good, we have been able to prevent a similar mass infection, as happened in a number of European countries. Our death rates are more than ten times lower than in a number of major European countries, at the same level as in the Nordic countries, as in Norway, Finland, than in Sweden. Perhaps, in fact, the situation has been rather good. There are individual decisions here, which have probably been insufficient on the basis of the information and knowledge given at the time. It was not wise to give... 'Loa giving' is even a false expression. I would like to be precise, the Health Board does not directly authorise the events, the local authorities and other authorities granting the permits, but at some point, of course, this particular volleyball tournament should have made a clear recommendation not to organise it. There may have been more of these individual decisions, but in general, the government and the health sector have done the right thing. In fact, there has been a crisis exercise during this government, it was on the subject of communication. I did not really participate in it myself, so I also said before that I have not participated in crisis exercises within this government. I was abroad at the time. But that doesn't mean these exercises haven't taken place. They took place during the previous government, and there will certainly be more. As has been said, the issue of resolving a certain crisis was on the agenda and planned before this crisis broke out, but unfortunately it has been somewhat delayed due to the spread of the corona virus and the global pandemic. But I'm sure we'll continue with the joint exercises. I think that cooperation has been rather effective and good. It certainly cannot be said that everything is perfect, but I think, looking at the situation in Estonia, also looking at today's picture, looking at the fact that we are discussing the exit from the emergency situation and we know that we have the virus under control, that the work of the Estonian people, the government, the municipalities, the health sector and other state institutions can rather be satisfied.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U300	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U301	Thank you. Mr. Swing! If you come here with a bill that gives the Health Board a very strong power, then my very benevolent and in no way spiteful suggestion is that you answer such questions as I asked here before, briefly and specifically, and stand up for your Health Board. You can say that it doesn't take too long, but everyone knows what they're saying. My question is, when you came in with this bill, did you have any hope that this bill would work? I'm hearing some pretty vicious questions that suggest that there's a fight with the deep state again, so it's more important to put a place in the hands of one of the authorities. And not only does the line under the door talk about it. What is the real situation with this bill? I myself have not been so fruitful with regard to the various drafts in this commission, nor have these discussions now been so fruitful.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U302	Thanks! Of course, the aim is for this draft to find Parliament's support. I think it's a sensible bill. There can certainly be different opinions about the role of the Health Board or any of the parties involved, this debate can be held, but I think that this cannot be an obstacle, and that cannot be a reason to hold back the necessary changes in Estonian law to control the infectious disease. I believe that the majority of Parliament will certainly be on the same page, supported by the Government of the Republic as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U303	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U304	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I was immediately moved to ask for your answer to a good colleague, Kalvi Tõlle, when you said that you advised the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee to merge these drafts before first reading that you gave this recommendation. I have a question, and perhaps a request to you, really, a big request: would you be so kind as to advise and advise the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee to withdraw from the drawer a law on psychiatric assistance, which was initiated as early as 3 December, supported by the Government of the Republic, which you have supported as your Minister for Social Affairs, supported by Riina Solman, supported by the social partners, the Chamber of People with Disabilities, the Chancellor of Justice, who has himself made an injunction on this? Can I expect you to give this recommendation to the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U305	Thank you for your question. I rather did not make a recommendation, but I put forward my proposals for specific draft laws. The Committee on Social Affairs has decided on these proposals in its own session. As regards the provision of psychiatric assistance to children, I certainly believe that this is an important issue that needs to be resolved, it would be good to do so as soon as possible. But, as has been said, the Social Affairs Committee and the Government Coalition together, of course, with the opposition, will make the decisions themselves on the ground, within the time frame that will move forward at a pace. I believe that sooner or later this question will find the right solution and support for Estonian people and children.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U306	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U307	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It's always been said here that the Health Board will be granted more rights. I think that's right, because in certain situations someone has to coordinate to keep things going. But rights usually involve responsibility. I am happy to ask you where the responsibility of the Health Board is fixed and perhaps the competence criteria of specialists working at the Health Board. I see that only then is it possible that the Health Board can fulfil this coordinating role.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U308	Thank you for your question. Yes, according to the law, the Health Board is obliged to stand up for this area, to deal with it. Control of poisonings and very many other areas are the responsibility of the Health Board. It is, of course, up to the head of the various posts to decide, and these criteria will then be set. There are a lot of people from very different backgrounds working at the Health Board, because the task ampluaa is also very wide, with family doctors, laboratory equipment, environmental safety, health supervision. The field of work is wide, which also requires people with different qualifications. Certainly, as I referred to earlier, now that a somewhat more peaceful time is coming, we need to review both the capacity and structure of the Health Board and the functioning of other institutions in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs during the crisis. I believe that the same work and this analysis will certainly be carried out by all the other ministries, as it is always possible and necessary to learn from crises, to be better prepared next time, to use an intermediate period of calmer time for restructuring, additions and reinforcements.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U309	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U310	I have to say that I am very much enjoying your urgent speech and your many words, but I do want to ask you once again: where is this particular place where I can look at the responsibility of the Health Board and what are the criteria that professionals have to meet there? My experience tells me that if it doesn't exist, it's kind of a dead bone in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U311	In accordance with the law, the Head of the Health Board (if we are talking about the Head) will be elected by the Senior Management Board, which will submit a proposal to the Minister who will approve the Head. This applies according to the criteria set out in the competition, as a rule they are a requirement for a master's degree, a certain management experience, etc. As far as the remaining posts are concerned, the requirements applicable to them are generally laid down by the head of the institution, in this case the Head of the Health Board. The tasks of the Health Board itself are defined and laid down in different laws. The question of responsibility is, I think, such an eternity debate. If you make a decision on the basis of the available information, best knowledge, which later, from the new information, turns out to be a wrong decision, will you be responsible for the fact that the information you used was incomplete, erroneous, or should you have been better able to predict, evaluate? This is the kind of debate where, I think, there isn't one correct answer. That is why I do not support the policy of looking for guilty persons very much, but I agree that responsibility comes with every post. We have no doubt about that here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U312	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Very sympathetic intent and direction. I have two questions. The first question is simple. Colleagues have also asked here about timing. We do not yet have all the lessons to learn from the crisis; the crisis is still ongoing. Why now, if there may be more good ideas? The second issue is the amendment of the Emergency Act. There is a feeling that we are burdening the government with a certain area, and we have also seen that crises can change shape and can spread to other areas. However, the government is dealing with the state, and the authorities are dealing with their responsibilities in times of peace, crisis and war. Is that justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U314	As far as the lessons of the crisis are concerned, certainly, we are still analysing them. Such conclusions and learning must also be drawn in the course of the work in order to be a little smarter than the previous one, in the light of a particular crisis, every day and week. As far as the need to amend the draft law is concerned, this is really due in particular to the fact that we have wanted and, by decision of the government, also set the objective of getting out of the emergency situation on 18 May. This implies that we must have the possibility to continue to impose certain restrictions, which may be necessary from 18 May onwards, legally without excessive disputes, but may also be necessary in June, July or any other time. At this point, we should not, for example, start to re-establish an emergency situation every month in order to impose these restrictions, and then we will end up once the situation stabilises. We should have the right and the opportunity to make these decisions even during "peacetime" in order to avoid the need for an emergency re-emergence, the need to re-establish an emergency situation. For this reason, too, this law makes it very clear what the emergency manager and the authority are at the moment, who makes these decisions, and at what point the Government of the Republic is entitled to give guidance. Similarly, the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases defines what is currently the Government of the Republic which makes decisions, not the Health Board. I think it makes sense in this view. As far as further improvement of the law is concerned, this debate is certainly still ahead of us, it is also in our work programme to come back to this issue in the autumn, this law as a whole. But, as has been said, it is too late in the autumn to make an amendment that needs to be implemented during the summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U315	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U316	Dear Minister, Good meeting manager! I have this question: is it still possible to give such great powers to the Health Board in this staff? When on 1 March the Health Board authorised the organisation of a volleyball match in Saaremaa, Italy and Estonia, which is known to be a large event with many people, while on 2 March the arrival of an Italian specialist at the A.Le Coq factory was prohibited on the grounds that people living in a risk area are likely to be ill and are at very high risk, are there no major contradictions in the decisions? Is it possible to reward these specialists with such a burden of trust?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U317	Thank you for your question. I do not think that extending responsibility and creating legal clarity is a bonus. It's more of an obligation. Rights oblige, not give more. As far as this particular volleyball game is concerned, it is true that at that point it would have been right to recommend not to organise it. However, the Health Board does not grant permission for the organisation; the Health Board does not organise sports competitions in Estonia; the Health Board does not issue public events permits; other institutions do so. At the time, the Health Board could have recommended that this event be cancelled, but did not make this recommendation, it made a recommendation to comply with health standards, etc., but did not consider it necessary to cancel this event. In retrospect, we know this was, of course, a mistake. As far as the coming of this disease is concerned, I have also pointed out before that this disease was brought to Estonia by 120 people of the size known, probably even more people. Unfortunately, the disease would have been on Estonian soil without it. Undoubtedly, this volleyball tournament increased the spread of the disease in Saaremaa, aggravated the situation, and so did other public events in Saaremaa. As far as these decisions are concerned, I think that we are, of course, currently taking a certain look at our ministry's view, that which were behind those decisions, which were the reasons that could have been better and smarter within the framework of existing laws at the time. However, it should also be taken into account that the introduction of an emergency situation by the Estonian Government only came somewhat later, i.e. on 12 March, and then all public events were banned. So far, in the first half of March, public events took place in all municipalities all over Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U318	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U319	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, I thank you very much for this answer to my previous question, and I am counting on you. But I want some more answers from you. When we discussed this draft in the Committee on Social Affairs last week, which has been formulated today for such a cluster bill, I asked about informing local authorities precisely in terms of amending these four laws. You have confirmed that local authorities have given their opinion in the Committee on National Defence. Yesterday, when we had a debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, it became clear that, in fact, local authorities are planning to come with amendments. My question is whether you are aware that the Committee on National Defence has submitted its opinion to the Committee on Social Affairs and there are certain contradictions. Are you familiar with the state defence commission? The short answer is yes or no.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U320	Yes, I am familiar with both, both the municipalities wishing to make further improvements and the opinion of the National Defence Committee. That is the right of all committees to make proposals. Well, the Social Affairs Committee needs to discuss it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U321	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U322	Thank you. I would not have asked, but you did not answer a couple of colleagues who actually asked a very serious and important question. By entrusting such powers legally to the Health Board in future, what are the mechanisms with which you ensure that professional, competent decisions are made, taking into account all previous history?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U323	Thank you for your question. The history of the health department is, of course, a little longer than the specific corona virus crisis. Most people are conscious of this profession only now, in fact, the work has been done much longer. In the past, there have been no complaints from the public such as those at the time of this crisis. As far as the provision of specific competences is concerned, as has been said, it is, above all, the creation of legal clarity, there are very few such additional rights, rather it is stipulated what can and must not be done to avoid the disputes that arose during this crisis and came to the public as well. This is particularly necessary in this view. As I referred to earlier, we certainly need to review the structure of the Health Board, the structure, composition, division of tasks, analytical capacity, all of this. There's not much time. We have to do this during spring and summer. I'm sure we're already working on that. Can I give you a guarantee that no decision of dubious value will ever be made by any agency in my area of responsibility again? Such guarantees, I think, can't be given by any minister. That would be bluffing. But I can certainly do my best to improve the capacity of the Health Board as well as our readiness for both this crisis and possible other crises that concern my field and, more generally, the welfare of the people of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U324	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U325	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. This is a draft initiated by the Government of the Republic. Can you recall whether there were such questions and issues in the government, such as those in this Chamber today, which also has a slightly critical undertone?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U326	Thank you for your question. I think that constructive criticism and questioning are always reasonable. This, of course, was also done in the Committee on Government, where we discussed it in greater depth. At the government level, when we gave the government's assessment and opinion on this at the request of the Committee on Social Affairs, the debate was relatively short, as most ministers had previously participated in this debate in the ministries themselves. This specific draft has also been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the State Chancellery, as well as with the involvement of the Ministry of Defence in the Legal Department. Everyone here has been able to give their input and their proposals, it has been discussed, as has been said in the Committee on Governmental Affairs on COVID-19 control, questions have been asked and have been reached precisely in the text that has reached its first reading today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U327	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. I would now like to ask Mr Mölder, the chairman of the committee, for a presentation by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U328	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed in five sessions the draft law on the amendment of the medical device law initiated by the Government of the Republic and now with a new name on it and related to the amendment of other laws. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister of Social Affairs and representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice gave an overview of the draft, and the Chancellor of Justice, the State Secretary, representatives of the Association of Cities and Municipalities and the representative of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People took part in the meetings of the committee. We had the first debate on 21 April, when we focused, in particular, on the first part of the law on medical devices. There our main conversation focused, in the case of the Medical Device Act, on the part of setting up the state fee, who will be the competent authority in the case of medical devices to evaluate it. It's the Health Department. We also marked out what these future state fees will be, and also that today's law does not provide for state fees in this situation, but they will be in the future, because, as you know, in the case of such medical devices, the Health Board will certainly also have its own costs by allowing them to be placed on the market or put into service. There was then a brief discussion of the role to be played when, for example, research has been carried out in another EU Member State and the same machine or device is intended to be introduced in Estonia, namely, whether further research is needed, further clarification is needed. No, if these studies and things have already been done in Europe, there is no need for further coordination in Estonia in this regard. I may [I agree] with the criticism that my colleague, Peter Ernits, threw into the air. Indeed, at this meeting of the Commission, too, we have heard a great many abbreviations, especially those abbreviations, which represent different terms and which relate precisely to the fact that we are transposing a European directive. That was the end of the first reading of this law, and we made a number of decisions at this very meeting. I'll read them just in case. We have proposed that this draft be placed on the agenda of the large Chamber today, that the first reading be closed, that we have decided to appoint Priit Sibula on behalf of the Commission as rapporteur and that we propose that ten working days be fixed for the deadline for tabling amendments. These were consensual decisions. On 29 April, after or almost at the same time as the Ministry of Social Affairs, through the mouth of the Minister of Social Affairs, had sent us a request on behalf of the Government of the Republic to process a further package of laws within the framework of this law, with the wish to complete the draft before the first reading, we really discussed it. In particular, the subject was the presentation of the Emergency Act, the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, the Health Services Organisation Act and the Draft Amending Act on Health Insurance. It must be acknowledged that the debate was very long and thorough during these evening hours, all the questions were very substantive and rightly set out in this respect. I think the same questions have already been asked in this Chamber today. In many respects, these questions concerned whether we can be sure of the role that the local government will play in the future and whether we are going over the autonomy of the local government by this legislative amendment. There were questions and assessments of the current situation and work of the Health Board, and also of the fact that if we give the Health Board so much capacity and rights through legislative changes, then can we be sure to the end that they will make these decisions on the basis of the best and wise knowledge possible. As I said, there was also a debate on the issue of local authorities. This debate was indeed also about whether we do not, in a sense, go against other laws with such changes and arrangements. Both the Secretary of State and the Minister thought they wouldn't. On these issues, we remained, say, a debating position and decided that we would also include the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities at subsequent meetings. In many ways, it was sound in this debate that they were already involved and that everyone was perfectly coordinated with them and that they were very pleased with what was going on with this draft, but it still seemed to us that it would be very reasonable to review it once again. There was also a very long debate on what concerns precisely the emergency situation, its announcement and its closure. These are the debates that we have had, above all, because the law does not say very precisely how this authority will declare an emergency and how it will put an end to it. The Minister, as well as the Secretary of State, considered that today's laws are sufficient in this regard and, however, give a great deal of opportunity precisely to declare an emergency, if necessary and justified, and if there is no longer any reason why this emergency was declared, it is very likely that the agency responsible will put an end to this emergency. Since this set of topics not only covers all the activities of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu but is a bit wider, the committee had a debate about the fact that other committees of the Riigikogu should definitely be included in the procedure. We decided that we would ask both the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Riigikogu, which of course does not mean that all other committees, if they have wishes and will and opportunities, could not always express an opinion. At our first meeting on 30 April (on 30 April we had two meetings), we discussed these issues again. In particular, there was a debate on the fine policy, which this draft law complements, these rates being substantially increased. Similarly, there was once again this issue of cities and rural municipalities. It was also a question of whether the Government of the Republic has given its consent to the package of amendments with which the Minister came before us. Indeed, the Minister still represented the positions of the Government of the Republic at this meeting, and the Government of the Republic has given us its views in writing today. At the meeting on Thursday, 30 April, we also decided on the decisions that needed to be amended after such a number of amendments had been tabled on this draft before the first reading. In the committee, we decided to present a draft of 165 plenary halls as amended, to include an emergency law, a law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases, a law on the organisation of health services and a draft law on the amendment of the Health Insurance Act, in accordance with a proposal sent by the Ministry of Social Affairs. We also voted again on this proposal concerning the conclusion of the first reading, and the Commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading, which was achieved by a vote. We also appointed a new rapporteur, who became Tõnis Mölder, the chairman of the committee, and we decided to set a new deadline for the submission of amendments, which is 7 May at 12 noon, which we also took by vote. Yesterday we had the last debate on draft 165. That was where we had the Chancellor of Justice, the representative of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, and representatives of the Estonian Cities and Valdade Union. I think that the position and opinion of the Chancellor of Justice are very important. Indeed, the Chancellor of Justice admitted that he too sees that this draft is moving in the right direction and that all the rights and obligations necessary after the end of the emergency situation, in order to quickly, constitutionally and humanly isolate the outbreaks and people suspected of being infected, will be subject to regulation and specified in substance. He once again mentioned that there have been disputes about the emergency situation and he really hopes that these issues will be substantially specified in this legislative package. So it can be said that the Chancellor of Justice was positive about the draft in this sense. In his opinion, too, all the other laws of the country have been observed here in this sense and are not contradicted by them. Still, he expressed thoughts that may need to be clarified or copied even more. There were also places on which we ourselves, as a committee, found that they might need to be reviewed between the first and second readings. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People may not have expressed so much opinion on this package of amendments in particular, but rather pointed out precisely the bottlenecks that have been encountered by people with special needs in an emergency situation, and these bottlenecks may also come out in an emergency. Their main message was that all the decisions we will make in the future should be as clear and legible as possible, and that all people should understand them in the same way, so that there is no situation where, let's say, some people think that things are closed in Estonia, but in fact these things are not closed in Estonia and these services can still be obtained, for example, by services that are vital for people. One of the points of dispute, which was also in the large hall today, is the forum for discussion, rather than the point of dispute, concerns the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities and their opinion. They considered that the draft could, however, clarify that, in the event of quarantine, the Health Board should immediately inform the local authority concerned. As I said earlier, in the Commission's debate, we also reached the point that, as far as local authorities are concerned and how they are informed, when the Health Board takes some kind of decision on their territory that concerns their specific activities, for example in the case of schools, I consider it to be personal, but we in the Commission as a whole also considered it reasonable that it needs to be regulated more precisely. If I'm not mistaken, the Ministry of Social Affairs has sent his thoughts and clarifications on this today. We listened to this and discussed the comments made by the three Riigikogu committees. The Economic Commission as a whole supported the continuation of the 165 procedures of the draft law. We also heard the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which noted it and referred to what I was talking about earlier, which was a proposal by the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities that could be considered. The third proposal came from the Committee on National Defence, which then, let us say, drew our attention to the fact that, in this form, they consider that management in an emergency is unclear, that the authority responsible for dealing with an emergency does not dare to act independently and that the responsibility of the authority is blurred. Perhaps their message was that leadership should perhaps be more personal. They also point out in their letter that the role of the minister in whose area of government this authority in charge of emergency management falls remains unclear. Their message was rather to increase not so much the role of this agency in this draft, but precisely the role of the Minister for Coordination of the Office. This, in their opinion, remains unclear. This was the result of our debate yesterday. The decisions I read to you earlier, they were made on April 30th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U329	Thank you. You have questions too. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U330	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You mentioned that you involved different interest groups, but somehow I missed out on whether you included and listened to the Health Board. What does the Health Board, who is most directly affected, think about this amendment to the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U331	Thank you. No, we have not heard from the Health Board on this issue. However, it must be taken into account that the work of the Health Board is indirectly and, in fact, directly managed and coordinated by the Ministry of Social Affairs and its representative, the Minister of Social Affairs, who we had in the Commission. We also had representatives from the Ministry of Social Affairs at every meeting of the Commission. In my opinion, the Minister has publicly said that in his opinion, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board are working very well together and stepping on one foot. So I don't think that this involvement was needed at the moment, but I do believe and hope that tomorrow, if the first reading is completed and we continue these discussions, it could be the right time, the time could be ripe to involve the Health Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U332	Thank you very much. There are no more questions for you. Do the representatives of the group have a wish to speak? It's a wish. Signe Riisalo, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U333	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Two important keywords have gone through this bill for me today: urgency and legal clarity. A parallel can certainly be brought to urgency by the fact that errors may occur in haste. But back to urgency. So what's the urgency? We have a state of emergency announced today, and the Government of the Republic, together with the Head of State, has decided that an end to the emergency situation could take place from 18 May. Nevertheless, we know that after 18 May the virus has not disappeared from the surface of Estonia and the risks remain, they are smaller, but they remain. As a result, the government is keen to re-establish further restrictions as of 18 May. Hence the urgency. When we look at the dates, we see that it's really urgent. But I ask you the other way around: do we necessarily have to make this decision by May 18th that the emergency situation will end? If we have not been able to deal with a well-thought-out and legally clear draft, can we not continue with the emergency situation and with the same constraints that are necessary at this point? I asked the Prime Minister in Question Time today, and we later specified this to the Minister of Social Affairs in the round of common issues. Actually, what did we hear? On 18 May, the wish is to continue with 2 + 2 rules, restrictions on public events, restrictions on graduations in schools, cinema, theatre, cultural institutions and event restrictions, border barriers and, of course, restrictions on welfare institutions in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, in particular general care homes and special care homes. I therefore argue that urgency will disappear if we use another legal basis in order to achieve the same objective, so that our people continue to have security. We're coming up with legal clarity. A law that has been made quickly and raises many questions does not create legal clarity. We will have legal clarity as the Chancellor of Justice has written to the Riigikogu in a letter already mentioned today. There he also made a constructive recommendation. The Chancellor of Justice said in his letter that the Ministry of Social Affairs has promised the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice that by autumn the new Law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases will be ready and will be able to enter the Riigikogu. The Chancellor of Justice also said in his letter that it is not easy to consider rights and benefits in these matters, there are many value choices, and that this decision can only be made by a representative of the people. You have to agree to that. He then gave us a specific recommendation that the Riigikogu may deal with the amendments to the legislation at issue today within the framework of the limitation of the period of validity, i.e. these are temporary provisions until the Government of the Republic arrives in the second half of the year with the law that creates final legal clarity. This is also a place of thinking for members of the Riigikogu. If the Chancellor of Justice says that this is not a contradiction with the Constitution, it does not necessarily mean this and it is not a criticism of the Chancellor of Justice or his institution that the chosen path and legal constructions are the best. This also means that we have reason to look into these provisions... Extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U334	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U335	... and make sensible and long-term working solutions. Now to the role of the Riigikogu. Indeed, several colleagues have spoken today about the poor practice of cluster laws, the attempt to avoid them and the law of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu governing our work. It is difficult to make a direct mistake, but yet our sense of justice says that it has been done too quickly, and actually the Riigikogu has been forced to do so. As you have heard, as a result of multiple requests, the position of the Government of the Republic was obtained in writing on this supplementary draft, only the day after the first discussion of the draft by the Commission. Yes, our Rules of Procedure Act allows the Commission to make changes before the first reading and bring the draft to the Chamber in a modified form. But the point of our Rules of Procedure Act is certainly not that, to the extent that the law passed on by the Government to the Riigikogu and the law given to the proceedings of the Commission is to change at least the same amount of things, without any material connection, except that they are truly subject to one minister. Such a distortion of the meaning of the law should still be a place for every member of the Riigikogu to ask ourselves why we support it. Why can't we make it clear, transparent, and understandable to the people we send the message to every day? There would have been room and time for this separate law. The Reform Party Group proposed that we have had an extraordinary sitting last week. Could have delivered the draft and negotiated the issue raised by the exit strategy. We all have a lot of questions. But no, the choice was made differently. Unfortunately, in the vote in the Committee on Social Affairs, these decisions also went in the direction that I, as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, must admit that I am not satisfied. Thank you for listening. And let us think about what urgency, haste, legal clarity and our role are in compliance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U336	Thank you. Next, please, Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U337	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I would not like to dwell on the content of the draft law introduced today, it has been done very thoroughly by the Minister, and there have also been many questions to which answers have been received. I am simply saying that the amendments to the four laws introduced by the Ministry of Social Affairs really need to be discussed. Whether, as a matter of urgency, this is debatable, was also referred to by the previous speaker. In his opinion, the Chancellor of Justice pointed out to the Social Committee that the implementation of the current law, including the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, has been highlighted by the kroon virus. After the end of the emergency situation and the related general strict restrictions, we need to be sure that every case of virus transmission is immediately and effectively responded, that if necessary the carrier is isolated, close contacts are clarified, tests are carried out, children's or other facilities are closed where the virus is spreading, the premises are disinfected, public events are excluded, quarantine is established at the place where the infection is spread, etc., but all this is, of course, clearly done on a legal basis and in accordance with the Constitution. It is also very important that the conditions and procedures for imposing restrictions are enshrined in the law, that judicial review of restrictive decisions is also easier, that they make it easier for injunctions and checks to be carried out before the administrative court, as well as, where appropriate, applying for preliminary legal protection. What I would like to pay more attention to today is the way a coat was sewn on the button and the original medical device law became a cluster bill, the amendments to the four laws were added to bill 165 before the first reading, which had been the subject of procedural decisions and which had already been sent to the first reading of the hall. This activity is certainly not good practice in the sense of the Riigikogu's domestic and working procedures, not to mention good practice in lawmaking. It would have been possible to make the important amendments to the four laws that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Social Affairs wished to submit to the Riigikogu as a draft law for discussion, discussed in accordance with the principles of the Riigikogu's domestic and operating procedures. We shall disregard the time-criticality and the short time-frame for submitting proposals. The Social Affairs Committee would have initiated the process of amending the four laws introduced by the Minister for Social Affairs, having held extraordinary sessions, as it has done so far, because the members of the Social Affairs Committee are not afraid of working. I asked the Committee on Social Affairs to consider this proposal, I asked it to vote, but 4 members were in favour of the Commission itself initiating four draft amendments to the law, and 5 were unfortunately opposed. The proposal was not supported. That is why we have such a cluster today. As Peeter Ernits, a good co-worker, correctly pointed out, there are mush and cabbages on the table today. This behaviour is not right; it may also lead to similar procedures in the future, and it does not make sense for those who are not members of the Social Committee. It raises a lot of questions and confusion. That's too bad. Once again, I would like to stress that the debate on the amendment of the four laws is necessary. Of course, one might ask why the government did not come earlier with this bill. At the same time, we realise that the special situation highlighted a great many problems that had to be dealt with quickly. Of course, it has to be taken into account that it is necessary to achieve legal clarity by adding responsibilities to the Health Board, but there is also a need for additional financial resources, additional competences and capacity building and perhaps even the creation of an advisory body. Health-protection decisions are not just about health care. This will have a social and economic impact and will certainly require a wider debate. As an analogy, you could bring in a council of scientists working with the government. Although the amendments are a very short time, they must be tabled by 12 noon tomorrow, I hope that the Riigikogu may consider limiting the period of validity of the draft provisions and also the obligation to... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U338	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U339	... that the Government of the Republic will submit a new draft law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases by a specific deadline, such as 1 October. The Chancellor of Justice has also referred to this in his letter. There is also a need for clarification regarding local authorities. I really hope so, and I have reason to do so, because at yesterday's meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, their representative organisation, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, confirmed that they are also proposing their amendments. The Social Democrats will certainly table their amendments. We hope that they will also be taken into account, because restrictions can only be imposed on a clearly legal basis, in a legitimate and constitutional manner, and must be brought to an end in good time. This morning, shortly before seven o'clock, I sent a letter to the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and the members of the Committee asking that the Health Board be invited to the meeting tomorrow. We are discussing the subject, but the Health Board cannot have the floor, and the Members of the Commission do not have the opportunity to ask questions. Yes, it is true that the Minister for Social Affairs, as head minister in the field, is responsible and also represents the Agency, but it would still be reasonable for the Agency's representative to be present at the Commission meeting to have the necessary assurance that these changes will be coordinated with them, with ideas on how to better implement them in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U340	Thank you. The representatives of the political groups have no further requests to speak, so I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 165. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 7 May at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U341	Ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the next item. First reading of the draft Act 174 on the Amendment to the Constitution annexed to the Treaty of 11 February 2004 on the Nordic Investment Bank between Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Finland and Denmark, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, to waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U342	Dear Speaker! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft for the approval of the agreement amending section 14 of the Statutes of the Nordic Investment Bank Agreement between Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark. The institution is named NIB, i.e. Norden Investment Bank, and this amendment, amendment of § 14, requires the support of the Riigikogu as the statutes of the NIB amend the Board of Governors, which consists of eight state finance ministers, and the power to amend it does not exist within the Board of Governors itself. As regards the improvement of the bank's financial management framework, § 14 of the Statute extends the powers of the Board of Governors, which can, if necessary, change the principles of capital and liquidity management. This is necessary in order to respond quickly to unexpected situations in financial markets or possible changes in the regulatory environment in the Member States, to strengthen or also to mitigate these requirements, so that the NIB can fulfil and continue its commitments. The financial governance framework will be strengthened to align capital and liquidity management requirements with best banking practices. The leverage limit of 250% of share capital plus reserves, which has been the basis for issuing loans so far, is replaced by a comprehensive capital and liquidity management framework that also takes into account the quality of NIB assets and not only the volume of loans. In this way, risks are better managed. The amendment to the Statute is expected to be approved by the end of June this year by the end of the second half of the year, as the current leverage limit will start to come into effect and the NIB will no longer be able to continue lending to the same extent. The increasing demand for NIB loans is, of course, also due to the crisis in COVID-19. As we know, Estonia has already received loans from the NIB to finance crisis measures. In addition to extending the powers of the Board of Governors, the Statute amends other provisions which improve the Bank's operations and contribute to a more efficient use of resources. For example, in addition to providing loans and guarantees, the NIB will be able to participate in equity investments. As this is a new and riskier activity for the bank, it is subject to strict limits. Participation in equity investment may be considered where market failures exist in some areas of the bank's business and the provision of loans or guarantees is not appropriate. The investment must meet the objectives of the activities of the NIB and its participation is limited to 15% of the capital paid up by the NIB and the reserves collected. A more efficient use of the Bank's resources will also be facilitated by the termination of the two under-utilised NIB lending instruments guaranteed by the Member States and the end of the respective guarantee agreements. Since the proposal is to transfer the guarantee amounts of a single loan instrument and the corresponding reserve to be collected by the NIB into the bank's capital, the NIB can better respond to demand on the basis of increased capital, i.e. to provide more loans than in the past narrowly within a specific loan instrument. The Statute amends the composition and tasks of the Bank's Audit Committee. The management of the Audit Committee will be set up, composed of 2 to 4 members, and will be responsible for the entire activities of the Committee, with a focus on the organisation of the financial audit of the NIB and the monitoring of the Bank's financial capital and liquidity position. The statutes shall be supplemented in such a way that the external auditors are subsequently responsible for the audit of the NIB. What is the impact of all this on Estonia? With the new financial management framework and more efficient use of bank funds, the NIB will be better able to respond to Member States' borrowing needs. Under certain conditions, the NIB will be able to participate in equity investments, which will contribute to the development of the Baltic capital markets. Although the core business of NIB remains the provision of loans, the bank has the potential to provide equity investments for production, IT and communication companies, health and social work or energy and transport companies. As stated, the two NIB loan instruments and their related guarantee agreements will be terminated. Estonia will be released from the guarantee obligation in one loan instrument for an amount of EUR 2,7 million. The guarantee for the second loan instrument is assigned to the capital of NIB as callable capital. In this guarantee, Estonia's share is 16.5 million euros; it remains Estonia's potential obligation to the bank, as has been the case so far under the guarantee agreement. In the case of the latest loan instrument, the Bank has also collected reserves that are transferred to the paid-up capital of the Member States. Thus, the share of Estonia and other Member States in the bank's capital increases for NIB's reserves. Estonia's participation in NIB capital will increase to a total of 20 million euros, to 76 million euros instead of the current 56 million. The share of the countries in the bank's capital remains unchanged. Estonia's participation is 0.9%. As a result of the amendments to the Statute, the NIB will have a modern financial management system that takes into account the various risks that the bank may face in its operations, a clearer capital structure and a more efficient lending capacity. As a shareholder, Estonia's interests are certainly a strong and profitable bank. In recent years, the NIB has been a regular dividend payer and this year, too, dividends of approximately 400 million euros are expected for Estonia. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Proposals for amendments to the Statute have been approved by most of the eight NIB Member States. I also hope for your support so that the changes can enter into force soon and the NIB can continue its normal lending activities. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U343	Thank you. There are questions. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U344	Thank you. I listened to it, and frankly I felt a nightmare. It sounded like you were taking the money, I don't know, Stockholm. How, then, does this fit in with Estonia's sovereignty and national interests? It sounded just like you were protecting the ESM.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U345	That was a question, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U346	Question two, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U348	Thank you. I'm going to be more specific. They're not basically different. This is still a violation of common funds, fierce sovereignty and national interests. The state pays something in, and then the others get something out of it. The most terrible thing is that there is some kind of transnational cooperation. It sounds like the European Union, such as the ESM, such vicious things. How would you still draw the line, calm down that there is no one else, Estonia will have it all, and no one else will get it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U349	Thank you. If it's possible to make a nightmare that easily, I'd have to go to the remote more often. [[Laughing.]] Formally speaking, two things may need to be clarified. Estonia's contribution will not increase, Estonia's liabilities will not increase, but Estonia's ability to borrow will increase. I would point out that we have already borrowed 750 million from the NIB this year. I would point out that Tallink is interested in borrowing money from the NIB and, as a result of this change, they will be better able to do so. So I can see very clearly the benefits for Estonia here. Without paying up money or taking on any new obligations, the system will become more flexible in such a way that it will benefit us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U350	No, unfortunately, I cannot offer this calmness that Estonia will have it all. I'm sorry, I can't do that. But the difference with the ESM is still significant. The NIB is still a normal investment bank; the ESM is in principle the funding line for the last resort of the crisis, where countries have responsibilities and guarantees. There's a difference in nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U351	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U352	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act 174 on the approval of the amendment to the Constitution annexed to the Treaty of 11 February 2004 on the Nordic Investment Bank of Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Finland and Denmark for the first reading, was discussed by the Monetary Commission at its meeting on 21 April 2004 and initiated by the Government of the Republic. The draft was presented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme, the advisor of the European Union and International Cooperation Department of the Ministry of Finance, Kristiina Abel, and the advisor of the Treasury Department, Merle Wilkinson, were also invited to the debate. At its meeting on 21 April, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 6 May inclusive, to propose that the first reading be closed, to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U353	Thank you, dear waitress. You don't have any questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? That is not the wish either, and so we will not open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 174. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 13 May at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U354	Now comes the first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which was initiated by Riigikogu member Liina Kersna. Please waitress Riigikogu member Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U355	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thank you for the opportunity to speak about the evaluation here in schools during an emergency. More specifically, you have before you an amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, where, according to the proposal, we would lose the obligation to convert the five-ball system describing the five-ball assessment at school level I and II if the child either changed school at school level I and II or graduated from school level II. Today's law says that 1st and 2nd grade is 1st and 6th grade. A word rating may be used up to class 1 and only a five-ball system shall be used in the future. This is a very small change, but it is a sign change. This is the first step on a longer journey to modernise more generally the evaluation part of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. As early as 2017, the Ministry of Education and Research convened a working group of experts to analyse the existing evaluation system in schools and to propose proposals on how to improve the evaluation system. One of the proposals of this expert group was to terminate the conversion system. In 2018, the Ministry of Education and Research commissioned a study from the University of Tartu, which also concerned evaluation. The summary part of this study was also an indicative part in order to remove the obligation to convert at school level I and II. Before preparing this draft, I asked for an opinion on this change from the Teachers' Association, the Educational Workers' Association, the Student Association, the School Leaders' Association and the Education Innovation Centre of both Tartu and Tallinn University. It is rare to see such a broad consensus on some changes in the field of education. All these educational organisations supported this amendment and, at the same time, said that, of course, this is a small change of a practical nature for them, but the evaluation side of the whole basic school and upper secondary school law needs to be revised more closely. Only the educational innovation centre of Tallinn University expressed its scepticism about the need for this change. They made a number of proposals on how to use terminology more accurately, and these proposals were also taken into account in this draft law. This certainly does not make verbal evaluation of the draft law mandatory in any way. He's not gonna do that. Schools still have the right to decide whether they use a five-ball system or verbal assessment. This bill certainly does not say that one or the other of the evaluation systems currently allowed by law is better or worse. I believe that we have all been to school, we know that both verbal and numerical assessments can be made very unprofessionally and unfairly. The question is the professionalism of teachers, the ability of teachers to give feedback. The Government of the Republic supports the objective of this draft, but they said they had a plan to come up with their draft and then to come up with more proposals on how to complement the evaluation system in schools. At the same time, the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps, has very directly supported this amendment here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. We know that the reality is that schools already use very different assessment methods today. As I said at the beginning, the law allows word rating and a five-ball system to be used, but in fact, in schools we have a ten-, seven-, six- and five-ball system assessment and assessment sometimes also the letters A-F, A-E. Certainly many schools use verbal assessments even after grade 6, both in grade III and in upper secondary school. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, more than 50% of schools use a different rating system than a five-ball system. To sum it up. I understand that this is a very small change. Indeed, the evaluation part of the basic school and upper secondary school law needs to be revised more thoroughly, but every journey starts with the first step, and I am offering you this first step, which is practically necessary for schools and also a sign, because we support the implementation of shaping assessments in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U356	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U357	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, where you introduced this draft, Liina, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research Liina Põld and Indrek Kilk were also present. Indeed, Indrek Kilk stressed that the Government of the Republic supports this draft, but still wishes to come up with a more comprehensive solution. There was such support in words, but there was no support in action. That's why I'm asking. It may be an ugly question, but do you think that this bill will happen the same way today with one other, that the Committee on Culture was almost consensual, but someone is proposing to suspend the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U358	Thank you. I hope, of course, that this will not happen. I hope this is because the evaluation part of the basic school and upper secondary school law needs to be looked at more widely. It has certainly remained in the way of time, allowing only a five-ball system and a descriptive assessment of the five-ball system at school level I and II. Obviously, it needs to be changed. But this small first step would make it really easier for teachers in schools this spring. They may have assessed the child descriptively for six years, and when he goes to grade 7, his six-year work should be scored, whether it is three, four or five, although the child has received descriptive feedback during the previous six years. So I very much hope that this small step will be taken here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U359	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U360	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Could you please clarify one more time exactly what this change will bring to schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U361	Thank you. Very many schools, for example, are evaluated by means of an evaluation of creative and know-how. If the child either changes school between grades 1 and 6 or completes grade 6 then all these descriptive assessments need to be converted into numerical scores. This means that if a child has received descriptive feedback in physical education, for example, that he ran 100 meters in such a time last year, this year he ran in a better time, for example a few seconds better or worse, this is more detailed descriptive feedback, then by the end of the sixth grade, whether it was three, four or five, or two or one. This has been recognised by all the organisations that concern teachers, the Alliance of Educational Workers, the Association of Teachers and the Association of School Leaders, that this is an additional burden on teachers. Everyone appreciated that their colleagues have a good enough functional reading ability to understand their colleagues' descriptions of the level of a child in a subject when it has been decided to give feedback verbally.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U362	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U363	Thank you, good manager. Liina, good waitress! A group of experts has been working on this or this specific subject since 2017 and, as far as I know, they have also made their own proposals. Can you enlighten us about the content of these proposals, as well as what has become of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U364	Thank you. Yes, there was a working group of experts for a long time. They have proposed to the Ministry of Education and Research that the evaluation from I to Level III be purely verbal in order to support the development of the student's learning competence, including learning motivation. At school level II and III, the descriptive feedback could also be assessed in a distinctive and non-distinguishing way (non-distinguishing is 'considered' and 'not counted', the distinctive assessment is in the ball system, today in the five-ball system). From there on, upper secondary school, there could be a distinctive and non-distinguishing assessment, a descriptive assessment would be less. But their proposal is that twice during the academic year, teachers should also provide students with descriptive in-depth feedback at the upper secondary school level on how they have progressed in different subjects. What will happen to these proposals? After all, an educational strategy is currently under way, it is in the final phase, and the issue of evaluation is certainly important in this too. I believe and hope that these proposals will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U365	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U366	Thank you. The question of whether it has also been studied, how one or the other assessment will affect children, whether there is, I don't know, a higher level of stress than there are numbers or vice versa. Any word on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U367	Thank you. After all, studies say that learning is more effective when the environment is as stress-free as possible, and learning is more effective when the child has the inner motivation to learn. Now the question is, if, for example, a second - grade child gets a grade in English because he has written all the words by hearing, not by spelling, does it encourage or reduce the inner motivation of that child to learn. Very many studies have been carried out on the subject of evaluation. However, a more descriptive assessment is generally considered to support the child's personal development. But experts from Tallinn University, for example, stressed in their letter that it would be a very good option if the number and word rating were combined to give you a numerical grade, but there is also a teacher's explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U368	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U369	Indeed, we all have experience at school. I remember how my French teacher once told me that, Kallas, you're zero. That, of course, worked very psychologically. Maybe zeros aren't really going to school, but I think he wouldn't have been more sensitive to a descriptive assessment than he was to a numerical assessment. But I just had a comment. This seems to make sense for children to be evaluated according to their own development in the way they have coped with their studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U370	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U371	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U372	Thank you. I'm sorry if I didn't notice this in your speech, but do I understand correctly that the Minister for Education and Science is in favour of this bill, but the government has taken a negative position on the basis that they want a broader approach for some time after x, somewhere in the near future, I can't say when? Is that the problem that could become an obstacle to this procedure, as if we were not going beyond a brief debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U373	Thank you. I once asked the Minister for Education and Science, Mailis Reps, in Question Time, how he felt about the proposal to abolish the obligation to convert from the basic school and upper secondary school law, and he very unambiguously supported it, but added that there are many tensions in the education sector today, and he suspected that there was no support for it in the education world. That is why I asked the proactive representative organisations how they would view this amendment and received mostly only positive feedback. I have attended almost 90 schools in the five years I have been in the Riigikogu, and this is one of the pervading problems that comes out in communication with teachers, so please change it, why do I have to convert it into numbers to a colleague who understands what I'm writing, please stop it. And where you can see the error, come and help. Here I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U374	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Oh, I'm sorry! As a representative of the Committee on Culture, I would like to ask Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubitsi to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U375	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you what took place during the debate on the draft in the Committee on Culture. So, this is a law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, 155 is the number of this bill. Liina Kersna is the initiator of the draft, it was launched in February this year and Liina Kersna spoke about the contents of the draft a few minutes ago, quite well. On Tuesday, 21 April, the Committee on Culture discussed this subject with the help of a video bridge. Members of the committee Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Heidy Purga, Katri Raik, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin took part. Liina Kersna, the initiator of the bill, was also present with the help of the video bridge and Liina Põld, the head of the General Education Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Indrek Kilk, the legal adviser of the legal department. Liina Kersna introduced her draft in quite the same words as she did in this Chamber. I'm not gonna go over it again. It is also commendable that he consulted in writing on the preparation of the draft of the educational workers' association, the student association, the educational innovation centre of the University of Tartu, the educational innovation centre of Tallinn University, the association of school leaders and the Estonian Teachers' Association. He also stated that most of the feedback was positive, the only one who did not consider the amendment to the law necessary was the centre of educational innovation at Tallinn University. After this Indrek Kilk, who is a legal adviser, said that the Government of the Republic really supports the purpose of the amendment, but not the concrete draft law proposed. The reason is that the government wants to go further in detail and come up with a more comprehensive package by the Ministry of Education and Research. Liina Põld, the head of the General Education Department at the Ministry of Education and Research, added that the Ministry has been working on the subject of evaluation for a long time and that the full solution is intended to change the evaluation part. After that, the members of the Committee on Culture asked questions, there were about six of them and they could be looked at more closely in the minutes. I shall describe in general what bottlenecks have become apparent. First of all, there are no precise statistics, or at least it has not been introduced to the Commission, how many schools there are in Estonia with which assessment system, and how many students change schools in Levels I and II and thus confront the problem of grade conversion. Perhaps there is no overall picture to understand the size of the draft problem. At the same time, the initiator stressed that the problem of duplication of teacher work would be solved in particular. Another problematic point is that HTM said that they themselves would come up with a complete solution. At the same time, HTM was not able to formulate exactly what this complete solution is and at what point is HTM going to introduce it. Another conclusion of the Commission's meeting was the need for a broader and coherent understanding of what is an evaluation system, whether it is a five-ball system, whether it is equivalent to a descriptive verbal assessment, and whether, in such a case, if a student completes a second school year and receives his grades in descriptive verbal form, his grades should still be measured by a five-ball system. This is a bigger and much wider debate. Ultimately, Aadu Black, the head of the Committee on Culture, proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 6 May, i.e. today, and that the draft should be closed. There were 9 people in favour of graduation: Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Aadu Must, Heidy Purga, Katri Raik, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Marko Šorin. No one opposed and Jaak White abstained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U376	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Liina Kersna first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U377	Thank you. I want to be more specific. After the meeting of the Commission, I asked the Ministry of Education and Research for more precise statistics on how many children change schools during school grades I and II. Now, if I read the chart correctly, there's about 3,500 of these kids. The second question that remained unanswered in the Commission was how many schools use a different rating system than the five-ball system. Based on 2017 data, there are more than 50% of schools, but it is outdated statistics, and today there are probably more. There was no question, there was a comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U378	But thank you for that clarification. That information wasn't there during the meeting, and that's why I didn't mention it. However, this was not a direct indication that the originator did not answer that question. The Ministry of Education and Research was also unable to provide these statistics on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U379	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U380	Thank you. Dear waitress, I thank you very much for the constructive and correct report by the Commission, but I will continue with my question, which I have put to Liina Kersna. The Commission really proposed to conclude the first reading. Do you have any information that we can finish reading this bill first, and does this bill have any luck becoming a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U381	Thank you for your question. First of all, I'm not psychic, of course. Secondly, I would be lying to you right now if I told you that I had no idea what could happen in the next half hour. Thirdly, I am actually concerned that, in recent times, there has been some tendency for the decisions that the Committee on Culture is voting through and deciding and bringing to this Chamber to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U382	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U383	Thank you. I've already received part of the answer to the question, but I'm still going to question it. If the Commission knew that the draft would not be supported, but it would still be sent to the first reading, would it make sense to send it to the hall at all, or was there any other reason for it to come to the hall? Your last reply also indicated that this reading could probably not be stopped.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U384	Thank you. I must have answered that question. As far as I have to deal with what was happening in the Commission, I say that there really was 9 votes in favour and 1 abstention in the Commission, no one was opposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U385	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No, it's not. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 155. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline of 20 May at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U386	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Electricity Market Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U387	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act to the Riigikogu. The draft introduces four changes to the regulation. Firstly, existing production facilities will be allowed to participate in less supply for the introduction of renewable energy into the market. Secondly, less bids are allowed to be carried out technology-specifically. While the scheme has so far been technologically neutral, the amendment allows for fewer offers for both unmanaged and controlled production equipment to be placed on the market. A maximum rate of support shall be allowed for each less bid depending on the reduction in the investment costs of the technology. Fourthly, the regulation of the network tariff for imports from third countries will be improved. The main objective of the draft law is to improve the conditions of competition for less bids from national renewable energy sources in order to achieve the objective of generating electricity. To this end, less bids for renewable electricity can be organised technology-specific, i.e. separate offers for both managed and unmanaged capacities. The availability of controlled capacity is particularly important in the light of the process of synchronous unbundling of the electricity system in Russia. Such production equipment also guarantees the stability of our electricity system in a situation where we are forced to separate from Russia's synchronous area before the deadline. During the 2017-2019 period, the unit price of CO2 allowances has multiplied in the EU's internal auctions, while the market price of electricity has remained stable over the same period. Since Estonian oil shale-based electricity production is highly carbon intensive, the multiplication of CO2 prices has significantly reduced the competitiveness of these plants in the electricity market. Co-incineration of oil shale and biomass will enable Estonia to reduce its CO2 footprint in electricity generation much more favourably than before. According to the draft, it will be possible to produce an additional 500 gigawatt-hours of renewable electricity per year. Such a measure will also improve the security of supply of the system. Support for such production may be granted for a consecutive period of three years. In this context, low-value wood is used as biomass. It should be stressed here that such a product can be obtained from both Estonia and abroad. This is free market goods, and here the price at which the owner of low-value timber is willing to sell its goods will be decisive. Market participants have expressed concerns about the impact of the changes on the timber market since the draft was submitted to Parliament. I would like to stress that there is no point in paralleling the impact with the 2011 support scheme. Unlike the scheme at the time, the scheme in the draft is very limited both in time and in volume. In order to provide additional certainty to market participants in order to minimise the effects on the timber market, we propose to set a cap on the aid to be paid in the draft. The amendment requires authorisation of State aid from the European Commission. We have also submitted a prior notification of the permit in October last year. As of today, we have reached the final stage with consultations. A positive decision is expected to exist by July of this year. In addition, the principle of the use of revenues from the electricity grid tariff from third countries is amended. According to the current law, the system operator has the right to apply a separate network tariff to electricity from third countries. The amendment specifies that network revenues from electricity imported from third countries must be used to cover investments in connection with the Central European frequency band. Thank you for your attention and please support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U388	Thank you. And there are questions for you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U389	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Indeed, there are some fundamental changes in the plan here, but for the time being I am asking why this bill has considered it necessary that after 2023 the objectives of the electricity market or the objectives of electricity production should be set by the Government of the Republic, but not by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U390	Thank you. The duties of the Government of the Republic still come from the Riigikogu, so it remains in the hands of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U391	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U392	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Minister Tavi! I have this question: how does this draft relate to the development plan for the energy economy that we have adopted in this Chamber? Is this bill supportive or contrary to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U393	Thank you. No, he certainly isn't. Rather supportive, because we have the opportunity to produce more clean energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U394	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U395	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Well, it is, of course, remarkable and remarkable how you have the ability to present very fundamental changes to the Riigikogu as if they were something very small and unnoticed. The explanatory memorandum to this draft is now such that, unfortunately, it is one of the master classes in the transmission of distorted images. Why is it that the drafts concerning Eesti Energia, which reach the Riigikogu from the Ministry, often paint us such a strange twisted picture here, that is a separate story. But the first sentence of the explanatory statement is rotten. You write that the purpose of the draft is to increase competition in less bids, and you fail to write that the result of this draft is precisely a reduction in competition, the possibility of organising less bids, where only oil shale plants of Eesti Energia participate. Please tell us how to increase competition by offering less to one market participant.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U396	Thank you. This will certainly increase competition as regards the generation of electricity from renewable resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U397	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U398	Thank you. I think Jüri Jaanson had a very legitimate question. So far, the law has established a maximum rate of support and the law has been passed in the Riigikogu. You now want to take this maximum rate into government decision-making. I think it's still a fundamental change. Here's the question. You now want to set a target of 24% on average for electricity generation from renewable energy sources 2021. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: Why 24%, but not some third number? The second question: what should be the level of support, or what should be the rate of support, so that, at today's electricity price, today's biomass price and today's CO2 price, oil shale electricity is at least at zero, or zero?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U399	Thank you. First of all, we do not want to take this rate of support into the government's hands, we have spoken with market participants on this issue, and we propose that this maximum rate be included in the law between the first and second readings. This maximum could be EUR 15 per megawatt. And 24% is the result of the calculations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U400	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U401	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of Economic Affairs! We have also received a letter from the Competition Authority on this draft. I am pleased that the Competition Authority in its time was transferred from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the administration of the Ministry of Justice, which guarantees their independence and the ability to speak up a little bit more closely on such matters. I am not going to read all this letter, but their message is relatively simple: given today's situation, perhaps it would be more sensible, instead of opening the whole package, to find a concrete measure to support the power plants of Eesti Energia and Narva. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U402	Thank you. This measure has been sought and therefore this draft law has been reached. We must act in accordance with European Union law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U403	Rocks Hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U404	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Here's my question. You know how valuable wood is, both as a forest and a natural community, as well as for industry. You told me before that this draft would go together with the development plan for the energy economy when you told me that there would be some construction waste coming from somewhere, but it would be a drop in the sea if this plant would still be working on wood, that would be used in a much more efficient way, and we would produce electricity, which would result in 60% of the wood's efficiency actually flowing quietly to the Baltic Sea, or we would not use all the wood's resources. I do not understand how it supports the development plan. Maybe you'll comment a little on the use of wood resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U405	Thank you. I love wood as a forest. I own it myself. But how do we guarantee this, really, that there will be wood that cannot be used elsewhere? We are practically ready to transpose the Renewable Energy Directive, another directive. This directive provides that wood used for the purpose of producing renewable energy can only be one that cannot be used for any other purpose. This bill will reach the Riigikogu, I hope, right after the summer vacation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U406	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U407	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm a private forest owner, too. Now there is the question of how this can have a real impact on the timber market. We have to look at another thing. For example, the forestry development plan is relatively entangled at the moment, I understand, and it has not been reached by any number. It is clear that, if we assess this effect, there is one thing if we can count on some of today's export values, but on the other hand it must be taken into account that if we have very minimal cuttings in the forestry strategy, what is the impact on the timber market in the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U408	Thank you. Today, the situation is that the wood used by Eesti Energia will bring everything in, practically everything. Estonian timber producers have also written to me: why is there a situation where Eesti Energia does not buy low-value timber from them? The choices made by Eesti Energia are based, of course, on price. So I certainly don't believe in any catastrophic influence here. Once again, between the first and second readings, we propose that a maximum subsidy rate of EUR 15 be set. If I am not mistaken, in 2011, 55 euros was possible, so that difference is quite large. Secondly, the transposition of the directive, which lays down which timber can be used to produce renewable energy at all. I think they all set very clear limits on what Eesti Energia can use and what can be used at all. But today there is a situation where Estonian timber producers would rather sell their timber to Eesti Energia, but Eesti Energia uses the opportunity to bring it in from outside.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U409	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U410	Thank you. Good minister! You seem to respond with extraordinary shortness. That's why I'm asking you again. At which electricity price, biomass price and CO2 price would oil shale electricity be profitable? What should this rate of support be for today's prices? Please also share these adjustments as they reached 24%.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U411	There are quite a few components here that you talked about, which consist of the price of electricity in electricity generation. These are all components that can move in different directions at some point in time. In this sense, putting together one thing about this puzzle is that it is reasonable, extremely complicated. For example, today there is a situation where the price of CO2, which was well above EUR 20, is EUR 16, which could, as if, provide an opportunity to produce electricity from oil shale. At the same time, the price of electricity has also fallen because there is a huge amount of hydroelectric electricity on the market, and therefore it is not only reasonable to produce oil shale electricity. Of course there are nuances. As far as it is produced as by-products of oil production, wood chips are also produced. It is estimated that the maximum rate of support we have, 15 euros, could now be one that would allow more of it to be used and produce up to 500 gigawatt-hours of electricity on Eesti Energia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U412	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U413	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Economic Affairs! I'll continue with the Competition Authority's letter. It was simply received today and, for some reason, it was not at the materials, after all, it was a technical error, and therefore it may not be known to many. It says here that today's situation must be taken into account where asking for State aid from the European Union for a specific socio-economic measure can be much easier and faster than opening up the whole renewable energy support package, which has nothing to do with today's changed situation. It is recommended to implement a limited-term support scheme for Narva Power Plants and not to modify the existing support system for renewable electricity, which would lead to different competition concerns. You said you've considered different approaches. Perhaps in this light, however, these approaches should in principle now be reviewed, as a warning from the Competition Authority may be appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U414	Thank you. The competition authority, I understand, assumes that some kind of crisis measure should be implemented. We still see this as somewhat longer-term than just a crisis measure. This draft was launched last year, when the crisis did not appear anywhere. There are quite a number of goals here. First, production of renewable energy, second, Estonia's energy security. Probably for a very long time, I think that this situation is not going to change, only the production of oil shale electricity is not cost-effective. At the same time, we need to keep the managed energy production processes alive from a minimum until 2025, because then synchronisation will take place. But the International Energy Agency will complete the pan-European energy assessment by the end of this year. How the crisis affects all of this, we do not yet know today, but then we will find out what the energy balance in the European Union is after the countries fulfil their commitments that they have made. We know that a lot of nuclear power plants are about to close down, which is why it is extremely important for Estonia to have its own production capacity. This is an energy security issue and, of course, it is also a socio-economic issue in Ida-Viru County. So it is not linked to today's crisis, it is a much longer-term issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U415	Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U416	Thank you. Dear Minister, This bill was developed long before you became mayor of Tallinn. Consequently, the questioners' questions are very adequate and precise, which unfortunately cannot be said about your answers. This issue has been under discussion for a very long time. You said in your introduction that, as CO2 prices have increased significantly, oil shale electricity production is no longer rentable. Consequently, such a scheme is proposed that for the further production of oil shale electricity, it should be halved by the wood to which each electricity consumer would have to pay. I'm asking the principle. Indeed, as a result of the operation of the emissions trading system, CO2 prices have increased and production of electricity from fossil fuels has become less profitable. Does the European Union foresee, as a logic, that if the price of CO2 is rising and the generation of electricity from fossil fuels is no longer rentable, then the state must and will subsidise the production of electricity from fossil fuels? Has this been the objective of this emissions trading system?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U417	Thank you. Once again, the draft has several objectives. I also attach great importance to the socio-economic objective in Ida-Virumaa. It is a pity if you do not share the view that keeping jobs in Ida-Virumaa is important. Secondly, yes, emissions trading has affected Estonian energy. But we need to think very clearly about who we have electrical connections with, how the stability and frequency of electricity is maintained in Estonia, and we need to be prepared to make sure that we may need to do so ourselves. To do this, we need to keep our power generation capacities, as I said, until a minimum of 2025, but it cannot be ruled out that longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U418	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U419	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm really sorry, but these answers look like round logs, rolling and rolling, but they don't say why it's done. Did I hear correctly about your one answer that Estonian entrepreneurs who would like to sell wood chips or biomass to Eesti Energia will not get hit? I remember the different statements made by the members of the government, especially during the crisis, saying that we must help Estonian entrepreneurs and they should have the opportunity to realise their output. Now you are saying that we should pay taxpayers' money to bring this mass from abroad. How does that fit in with logic? Why don't you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U420	Thank you. We actually came to the basic question. [[Laughing.]] On the one hand, it is feared that if we start implementing this support scheme, valuable timber will be sold to Eesti Energia in Estonia, and on the other, you will ask why is imported from the outside. I think that makes sense. Eesti Energia as a business company buys where it is cheaper, but if possible, if it receives support, it may also start to buy more from Estonia and thereby support Estonian companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U421	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U422	Thank you. Good minister! Your answer to my previous question is that organising fewer offers, where only one market participant can participate, will undoubtedly help to increase competition, will be one of the classics that has been distributed from this panel to the Riigikogu. But I will continue with the distorted information contained in the explanatory memorandum. You are trying, among other things, to create the impression that it is not possible to start building new wind farms in Estonia, and that is why it is necessary to start burning wood in oil shale plants in order to meet Estonia's renewable energy objectives. For what reason, however, have you not mentioned in the explanatory memorandum the project of Tootsi, one of the largest wind farms in the Baltic States, which would be able to support a very large amount of renewable energy and which is equally related to Eesti Energia? Why is this in the explanatory memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U423	Thank you. Estonia has a very large potential for wind farms. Indeed, we have certain restrictions today, especially in Ida-Virumaa, which relates to national security. The radar park needs to be improved, which also opens up new opportunities for opening parks. But once again, the wind is an uncontrolled source of energy. I believe that the Estonian state must also have manageable production capacity, which guarantees our energy security, without it cannot be possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U424	Echo Kallas, please! Is it a procedural question? Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U425	Thank you. I am forced to ask a procedural question, because Minister, I do not know whether I do not hear the questions or whether I simply completely miss the question. My question concerned why the explanatory memorandum, which has been distributed to the members of the Riigikogu, presented distorted information as if wind parks could not be established in Viru County due to radar restrictions. However, Eesti Energia has recently participated in the competition and won this right for itself. The minister replied, I didn't even understand what the subject was about. I ask the President of the Riigikogu to explain to the Minister that he will answer the questions that have been asked in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U426	Thank you. The minister will answer by his best recognition. Next question, please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U427	Thank you. There are three reasons for this draft. One is that it is as if competition should get better, the other is that it is necessary for security of supply, and the third is that it is necessary because the cost of CO2 has increased. However, none of these claims are true, because this law makes a separate offer of less support, which can only be attended by Eesti Energia, i.e. there is no competition. Secondly, security of supply is the responsibility of Elering, who has said that until 2025 we will not have a problem with security of supply (tuginen to the security of supply report that Elering issues). Third, Eesti Energia confirms in its 2019 report that it has received CO2 allowances free of charge, that it has earned 50 million euros from its sale, that is to say, it is not a problem that these CO2 quotas have increased. Why are you misleading members of the Riigikogu and making false statements?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U428	Thank you. Well, if you're saying that the price of CO2 hasn't increased, it's gonna be very difficult for me to start... [[A voice from the hall.]] Well, that's your point. (Voice of the floor: 'It is not my claim! ') The price of CO2 has risen. (Voice of the floor: "But I have not claimed it!")
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U429	Please don't shout about it!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U430	I think it is common knowledge that Eesti Energia has produced considerably less oil shale electricity precisely because the price of CO2 has increased. As far as security of supply is concerned, it can be discussed for a very long time, but I will continue to stick to the fact that the Estonian state needs to ensure its energy production capacity with controlled production tools. This is our guarantee of energy security.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U431	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U432	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You also pointed out in your supporting arguments that the people of Lääne-Virumaa have the opportunity to have jobs. Would it not be cheaper for the Estonian state to make civil wages for the people of Lääne-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U433	Thank you. I believe we are actually talking about the people of Ida-Viru County. I think that civic pay is a good and interesting measure, but I personally think that a person must have the opportunity and the habit of doing a job; it must not be lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U434	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U435	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. Jobs have already been discussed here. How do you assess and can you ensure that, as a result of this decision, jobs are not lost elsewhere? We have many companies that deserve wood, and for example, in Lääne-Virumaa, even though close to the border of Ida-Virumaa, a good company that employs nearly 100 people every day, provides jobs for 500 and more people indirectly, exportes and has received the best company titles. For them, the price of woundwood will certainly rise and, secondly, they will also pay the renewable energy fee, being large electricity consumers, additional, i.e. they will receive an additional penalty. Do you dare to promise that jobs will not be lost elsewhere or that some companies will not have to...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U436	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U437	... to tighten up your activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U438	Thank you. I see no reason why this bill should accompany it. First of all, as I said, we propose fixing the maximum amount of this support. Secondly, as I said, when the Renewable Energy Directive has been implemented, what, I hope the Riigikogu will do after the summer vacation, we will bring this draft here, so that the Riigikogu can discuss it and decide on it, it clearly states which timber can be used to produce renewable energy. It says that if this wood can be used for any other purpose, the energy produced from that wood will not be counted as renewable energy. So I think it will rule out situations where valuable or other raw materials will be used to produce electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U439	Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U440	Thank you. You did not answer my first question that, if, due to the rise in CO2 prices, the production of fossil-fuel electricity becomes uncompetitive, has the objective of the system been that countries are going to grant State aid in order to continue in the same way? Yeah, answer me, please, just answer the question. But you also failed to answer Jüri Jaanson's question as to why you want to deprive the Riigikogu of the right to set renewable energy targets. I would also like an answer on this, because this is a very important issue. In fact, the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia says that taxes, charges and compulsory parts of social security contributions are in fact a law to determine, which means that Parliament should do so in a parliamentary state. There are individual exceptions if this should be done by the government. The nature of the renewable energy charge is compulsory for all electricity consumers. If the government were to decide in 2024 that the renewable energy target is 90% and the renewable energy fee doubles as a result, I said about the numbers, do you think it would be normal that, without the Riigikogu's decision, the government could basically increase people's electricity bills, for example, by 20 to 30%?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U441	Thank you. No, the government has absolutely no intention of excluding the Riigikogu from the decision-making processes and neither does the government intend to increase the remuneration for renewable energy. To a very limited extent, we do not want to increase it. [[J. Ossinovski is talking about the hall.]] No, I do not think that the next government has this objective either, because the system of less bids actually provides that renewable energy charges are going to fall in the future. So I don't think there's any fear. As for the first part of the question, I will stick to what I said to you the first time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U442	Thank you. You just said that if this wood can be used for anything else, it should not be used in these boilers. How do you make sure there's no wood that can be used for anything else? Who controls it and how is it monitored? What happens if it turns out that wood that suits others is still going there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U443	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U444	Thank you. Then it cannot be regarded as renewable energy, and consequently it cannot be granted support. Who specifically controls it? We'll find out when we're here in the fall with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U445	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U446	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Listening here, I understand that for you, this bill still has two important objectives, one being to ensure energy security and security through controlled energy production and imported timber, and the other is to increase employment in Ida-Viru County. So which one's important here? I would also like to ask that it must be coordinated by the European Commission. What aspects or what will the European Commission base its coordination on? Do you have anything to tell us about this coordination procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U447	Thank you. As I said, I consider both important. I consider it important to have energy security so that we maintain the power generation capacity managed in Ida-Virumaa, I think it is very important, once again I confirm, at least until 2025, until Estonia has synchronised its electricity network with the European Union. There are two aspects here, one is purely energy generation capacity, but the other, very important, is the capacity to maintain frequency, so that we can keep it. I also attach great importance to the socio-economic situation in Ida-Viru County. As regards the European Union's State aid authorisation, last October we issued a prior notification for the granting of a State aid authorisation. This process has reached its final stage and we hope that there will be a State aid authorisation by July this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U448	Thank you. I'll pick up where you stop answering. Can you explain to us why these two things are being separated and taken at different moments? Why is it not now possible to determine why this type of wood, which can be put in the oven in Narva in the future as part of the renewable energy charge, should this be done in the autumn in the context of the transposition of the directive? Does it give rise to the situation that during the summer through the time of the oven you want, beautiful round logs, and maybe someday in the autumn or winter, there will be a restriction that if you drive the log into the oven, then the renewable energy fee will no longer be available, then you will have to branch there, how simplified to describe it? Firstly, why are these processes separate, and secondly, what is the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U449	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U450	Thank you for your question. Indeed, it would be good if the world could do all things together and at once. Unfortunately, we do not live in such an ideal world. But I assure you, this directive will arrive in this Chamber. As far as the fact that anything can be done through the summer is concerned, unfortunately, no, because, as I said, it is likely that the State aid authorisation will only come in July and there will certainly be no action, no less bid, no subsidies if we do not have the State aid authorisation. So I don't see the possibility that in summer we'll start burning round logs in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U451	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U452	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I see that this government immediately indirectly likes to scrape money out of people's wallets, even though you have said that taxes will not be imposed. On Monday, we were just talking about this money paid to Toots' wind farm, 24 million every year, now you want to add 5 million more to renewable energy fees. But look, you have the same bill you've submitted to us. You said that the government does not want or intend to take away the decision of the Riigikogu as regards the imposition of taxes. See § 1 (1) 2: 'After 2023, the objectives of producing electricity from renewable energy sources shall be laid down by the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Minister responsible for the field. " What is it other than putting taxes in the hands of the government? Why are you still doing this, tell me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U453	Thank you. From 2023, the renewable energy fee will fall because there will be fewer offers. I think this fall could come sooner. But we have had a huge number of renewable energy producers this year, who are still taking advantage of the opportunity to go under the first scheme, in particular, there are very many solar producers who have taken advantage of the opportunity to start producing renewable energy before 1 January next year. It's going down from 2023.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U454	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U455	Thank you. Mr. Minister! By not replying smoothly to the question of Kaja Kallas, he asked you who would check what kind of wood was then going to run the furnace in Narva, but you admitted that some sort of control mechanism would be implemented later somewhere in the distant future. It's not like I don't really think that this kind of check that what's going on there is going to be free of charge. However, point 7 of your explanatory memorandum states that the implementation of the law does not entail additional costs for the state or local government. How do you intend to check what kind of wood will be in the oven without additional costs? Or have you just shattered in the explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U456	Thank you. I think that these control mechanisms already exist in the Republic of Estonia and we do not need to create any additional control mechanisms.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U457	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U458	Thank you. I'll help you. Indeed, it is the case that, by 2023, renewable energy charges could start to decrease, but if Tootsi [windpark] and the same proposal were added, then in fact, every year EUR 29 million will be added to the charges that people will have to pay in 2027, perhaps EUR 5 million, but that is more than EUR 30 million. I will still come back to my previous question. I don't know how you filed this bill in the government. If just as badly, it is very bad at all to manage this Estonian state. I'll ask you again. Today, the law says that taxes and renewable energy charges will be imposed by the Riigikogu. It explicitly states, see § 1 (1) (2) that the government will do so. Why have you come to us with such a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U459	Thank you. With regard to the constant increase in the renewable energy charge, which you are predicting, no, it cannot happen because it is also being restricted in this Chamber. Companies can only add to the first scheme until the end of this year and only fewer offers will take place from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U460	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U461	Thank you. In your previous reply, you said that Estonia already has control mechanisms in place. Perhaps you will specify which national institution will check the suitability of the timber. Name of the facility, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U462	Thank you. I think that the name of this institution will be known when we adopt this directive here. This draft directive also mentions this body.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U463	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U464	Dear waitress, I'm still going on with the wood. You have said here many times yourself, and in fact the explanatory memorandum to the bill also states that low-value timber is currently being given away free of charge, but it is not enough to produce enough electricity, and to get more wood, you have to pay for it. Logic says that, therefore, if more timber is to be paid, it is more valuable, it is not given away for free because there is something better to do with it. Isn't there a contradiction between what you're saying and the bill? Consequently, if more is paid for the timber, it is also more valuable wood, it could be used for something smarter. Or even the argument that there is still an increase in felling volumes, on which there are conflicting opinions in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U465	Thank you. No, I have not argued that low-value timber will be delivered free of charge. After all, today there is a situation where Eesti Energia brings the wood to be used from outside Estonia, and I doubt that it will be free of charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U466	Thank you. Since I have not taken part in the work of this committee, perhaps some things have not been noticed. But in the meantime, there was talk of only one company participating in this less bid. In the future, will we see hundreds of companies taking part in these competitions to get a reasonable price?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U467	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U468	Thank you. In order to be able to control this price, we propose that a maximum grant ceiling of EUR 15 be set.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U469	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask the Chair of the Economic Commission, Sven Sester, for a co-report from the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U470	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me briefly outline what we talked about in the Commission. The Commission met on 21 April on the subject. We asked the Commission to present this point to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, and to be given a second by Rein Vaks, Director of Energy Markets from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I will not repeat the general content of the draft. Just as here, Mr Aas gave a good overview in the Commission of the objectives of the draft itself. Members of the Commission also had questions. There was an interest as to whether the main objective of this draft would be, in essence, to enable the existing production equipment to participate in offers less in the future. This was confirmed by both the minister and the top official. True, today it is not possible to participate in a less bid with an existing device, for someone who has never had a device in production before, now this possibility should arise. There was also an interest in whether the Riigikogu would not have to make changes later in order to obtain a state aid permit. I would point out that the initiator of the draft, the government, or more specifically the Ministry, has submitted a request to the European Commission for a corresponding State aid authorisation, as it also requires a State aid authorisation, which took place in October of last year when it was sent. Our interest was whether we will have to make any changes at Parliament level later. The answer here was that the European Commission is currently doing an internal coordination round, and at some point there will be a formal request on the basis of which the Commission will eventually respond. We are most likely to wait in the process for the moment when this response comes, it should be in the middle of May, in the coming weeks, because it is really already on the road in October. If any changes are needed, we can make them between the first reading and the second reading, if that is necessary. It was also examined whether the amendment to the law affects the price of electricity consumers in Estonia and how much it affects, for example, the rise in heating bills in residential buildings or how much cooperation has been done with market participants. The answer here was that there has been cooperation with market participants. In part, [their proposals] have also been taken into account; this coordination table is included in the draft. For some subjects this is not possible, or at least no compromise was reached that would suit everyone, but in itself cooperation as such was achieved. All proposals were responded, feedback was given. It was also noted that as regards the price of wood chips and the change in the remuneration for renewable energy, there is no significant impact on the level of the fee, as from next year the renewable energy fee will fall out of the budget for large production equipment, which will significantly reduce the amount of renewable energy subsidies. Today, this volume is in the order of EUR 90 million per year, which we are paying. But really, the larger producers are slowly starting to fall away, this period is coming to an end, the size of the budget reduction is 10 million euros per year, I mean the existing ones who are being paid. It is, in itself, the pot that is distributed to renewable energy producers. Secondly, this measure has been designed so that the proceeds of the renewable energy charge will be paid to the less bid winner in such a way that the higher the market price of electricity, the less the support for renewable energy will have to be paid to the producer. As there is talk of existing plants, not new plants, the consumer will not have to pay for the cost of the investment, but only the cost of electricity generation. I'm sure it's important. As a result, the additional cost of renewable energy over kWh is relatively low. There are different signals from the market regarding the price of wood chips. Some market participants argue that such a measure leads to a high price increase. In order to avoid such a situation, the draft has given the Government of the Republic a great deal of flexibility in determining the terms of the offer. Nor does the wood chips used have to come from Estonia, which may also have a dampening effect on the price increase. It was requested to know whether less bids would determine which timber may be used. The representatives of the Ministry pointed out that there was a support for renewable energy of EUR 53 at one time, and it is now assumed that the level at EUR 15 for such a low bid, maybe even at some point below it. This in itself determines that precious timber should not be purchased, that it is not possible to participate in a less bid at such a price if you were to buy quality wood. It's a filter in itself. Interest was expressed as to whether it would be reasonable to consider a solution that uses only renewable energy sources, as the solution proposed by the draft seems to be non-environmental; there is also part of the fossil fuel side. The Minister stated that, in principle, he agrees that there is a need to move and a move towards increasing the share of renewable energy, but due to energy security, the capacity available for response must be maintained until synchronisation of the Baltic electricity system with the continental European synchronous area is achieved. Interest was expressed that by then we had also received a letter from one market participant, Estonian Cell, to the Economic Commission, where certain problems had been raised: the effects have been poorly and wrongly assessed and may also be in conflict with the Constitution and energy legislation. We also touched on this issue. Since the letter had come, it was possible not only between the first reading and the second reading but also before the first reading to touch on the subject. The Ministry stated that the electricity market has changed. These objectives, as set out in the National Energy and Climate Plan, are also constantly changing, and no conflict with legislation is seen on the Ministry's side. The draft has been made on the basis of the best knowledge available at the time. It was also provided as an example that the price of CO2 was 26 euros per tonne at the time when it was made, and at the moment the price has even fallen. It was also pointed out that an additional 500-gigawatt less bid would not affect previously planned less bids aimed at bringing new production facilities to the market. It therefore follows that this particular draft, which we are dealing with today, should not hinder the development of the rest of renewable energy. That is how the Commission summarised its meeting. Procedural decisions were also taken: it was agreed that the draft would be on the agenda today, 6 May (this decision was consensual), and the proposal was to conclude the first reading (this was 7 and 1 was against). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U471	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U472	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, You're a person with an economic background. I don't know if you can do this, but if you would, please, agree to answer all the questions we asked the Minister, but he didn't know or couldn't or didn't want to hear or answer. I know it's a lot to ask. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But some of them, or maybe something to be more specific? It was very confusing what we heard from the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U473	Thank you. No, I listened to your political debate. Inevitably, let's be honest, after all, the opposition has a bit of a grumpy sometimes with these questions, there's nothing weird or malicious about that. There is always the best question, which was not this time, the combination of § 3 and § 13, then you must always look at the protocol for which § 3 and § 13 were. It wasn't today, I have to admit, it wasn't. But I promise you, as chairman of the committee and also as executive rapporteur, that we will certainly bring together all the parties affected by this draft, Estonian Cell, Eesti Energia, the Competition Authority, which was discussed today, Kristen Michal raised this issue. Let's get this on the table, let's get this over with, there can't be any loose ends. There may be situations where we may not come to an agreement, there is nothing weird about it, but all things still need to be clear about what renewable energy is and what our goals are. We have to consider that raising renewable energy targets will cost us as a taxpayer, etc. Certainly all the questions, which may not have received answers today, although I think they were hardly there, will in any case receive answers in the future. At least I'm trying to get to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U474	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U475	Dear waitress, This is about the Commission's debate. Were any alternatives considered there other than what has been presented to us today, that we will, in essence, start to encourage more wood to oven for taxpayers' money? Perhaps the State has some other means or possibilities to pay this capacity fee, to reward or compensate for the power? Were there any other alternatives to the discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U476	Thank you. No, we were still discussing a specific draft, which bears its specific number 156. We did not have any other drafts currently under discussion, still this particular draft. I would even like to say that perhaps the questioner's question was such an easy, say, irony. No, no, I think, on the contrary, if this bill is adopted, we will, in a big leap, meet our renewable energy targets. As you have also noted, the Minister said that, even if necessary, we are ready to raise our targets, to reach them more quickly. Let's not be modest, shall we? I certainly believe that there are many in this Chamber who would actually like to see a much faster increase in renewable energy, which this bill will certainly give us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U477	Thank you. No further questions. Do the political groups want to negotiate? Looks like it is. Kalvi Tough, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U478	Oh, yeah, I had a long speech prepared, but it looks like it's gonna be pretty short. Dear friends, this is a very bad bill, and neither does the presentation of the bill know what was not good. As a result, we could do another rehearsal sometime, maybe a year or two. Today, the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to reject this draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U479	Thank you. Do the representatives of the political groups still have a wish to speak? No, it's not. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U480	Thank you, Mr President. I suggest we take a 20-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U481	Thank you. I'm declaring a break for 20 minutes. [[Voices in the hall.]] Right, the group can take up to 10 minutes, so I will not give you 20 minutes, but I will give you 10 minutes before the vote on the rejection proposal. Ossinovski, Evgeny!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U482	Did something break between my ears? After all, we have a round of negotiations between the political groups, and in the middle of the negotiations, I am not aware that we can take a break. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U483	The parties no longer wanted to negotiate; the round of negotiations is over. So I'm announcing a break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U484	Honourable Riigikogu, the break taken by the Estonian Conservative People's Party is over and we can continue the session. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to reject the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 156 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 20 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported, the draft remains in the process and the first reading has been completed. I shall set the deadline of 20 May at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U485	Let's keep going. Today's ninth item is the first reading of the draft law 157 on amendments to the Road Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U486	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U487	Ladies and gentlemen, Attention, please, let's listen to the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U488	The main objective of the draft is to transpose and implement European Union law, Directive 2018/645. The draft extends the range of persons exempted from professional driver training and harmonises the wording of the professional training exemptions with the wording of the exceptions to driving and rest periods for drivers. In the future, an agricultural, horticultural, forestry, livestock or fisheries undertaking shall not be required to complete professional training if it carries goods within a radius of up to 50 kilometres of the location of the holding in the course of its business. In addition, an exception is granted to a driver who supplies a company owned by him outside the city, without being allowed to carry out a road transport charge, the exception is intended solely for the supply of a company owned by him. During professional training as a driver...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U489	Minister, I'm interrupting for a moment. Can you set up the microphone so you can hear better? You've grown so tall, the microphone is regulated by shorter people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U490	A driver's professional training shall not be required from a person involved in the maintenance of a bus when he takes a bus without passengers to a vehicle storage or maintenance facility near the place of business of the carrier. The purpose of the derogation is to give an employee of an undertaking responsible for the maintenance of vehicles the possibility of transferring a vehicle without professional training to a nearby repair site, a technical compliance check point or a laundry. The further carriage of passengers or cargo without a certificate of professional training may also be carried out in the course of training in the framework of professional or refresher training, provided that the training is carried out in accordance with the requirements laid down. According to the current law, a lecturer in the training of drivers carrying dangerous goods is required to have a higher technical qualification. It's made trouble finding the lecturers. The aim of the legislator has not been to require, for example, a first aid lecturer to have a technical education. As it is not possible to list all areas of education required for training in the law, the restriction on technical education is abolished. In the future, the Road Administration will pay more attention to the experience of working or teaching in the field of dangerous goods when assessing the competence of lecturers. The amendment of the Traffic Act imposes an obligation on the owner of a vehicle to repair his vehicle if there is a manufacturing defect or if it does not conform to the type-approval. The obligation to bring the vehicle into conformity is for manufacturers and the remedial measures are free of charge for vehicle owners, but it is important for road safety and environmental protection that vehicle owners allow the manufacturer to fulfil its obligation. According to the current Traffic Act, the owner of a vehicle is not obliged to allow the manufacturer to bring the vehicle into conformity and some vehicle owners have refused to do so. In particular, there have been problems with the implementation of remedial measures related to emissions in Estonia. According to the draft, the vehicle owner is obliged to allow corrective action to be taken at the time of selection. The implementation of remedial measures is planned to be monitored during roadworthiness tests. I would like to ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U491	Minister, there are questions for you. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U492	Thank you. I have a very simple question: can you explain what will get the Estonian people better with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U493	Thank you. If you start at the end, if, for any reason, there is a failure of the manufacturer on the vehicle, then it is now the duty of the owner of the vehicle to allow this fault to be eliminated. This is important both for our safety and for the environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U494	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U495	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am just checking that this obviously concerns a number of different vehicles for which the manufacturer provides new information that some equipment needs to be reviewed, including electronic equipment, to meet the CO2 requirements, etc. What is this process going to look like in real life? For example, if I go or you and your old Volga go to a tech inspection and need to change something, will we be sent to a re-examination? Don't laugh, Taavi Asa definitely has an old Volga, he can confirm it. Are we going to be rescreened, or are we somehow going away and we're not being rescreened? What's it gonna look like to me as a car owner?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U496	Thank you. Two types of vehicles should be distinguished here. The old Volga factory is unlikely to call back to correct the mistake. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] It's probably gonna be up to me or you as the owner of the Volga. However, if the manufacturer has called the car back for repairs and the owner has not complied with this invitation for any reason, the next roadworthiness test will identify it and will not be completed before the roadworthiness test, unless the authorised service has been completed and the error why the car has been recalled has not been corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U497	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. I now request Mr Riho Breiveli, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U498	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This topic was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 21 April, including. The members of the Commission were in large majority; Annely Akkermann was absent. We examined the matter together. The rapporteur was Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and the Minister's advisor Moonika Parksepp was also present. There were no problems in the Commission on this issue. It was proposed, by consensus, that the draft be put on the plenary agenda today, including on 6 May (all in favour) and that the first reading be closed. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U499	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 157. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline of 20 May at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. The ninth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U500	Today's last, tenth item is the first reading of draft law 173 amending the Construction Code, the Construction Code and the Planning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Energy Economy Organisation Act. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U501	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The development of the law is due to the need to transpose Directive 2018/844 of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Estonian legal area. The Directive was designed to update, simplify and improve Directive 2010/31 (EU) on the energy performance of buildings and Directive 2012/27 (EU) on energy efficiency. The transposition of Directive 2018/844 will create better opportunities to meet the energy efficiency objectives of buildings and thereby improve the competitiveness of the Estonian economy. The draft introduces the provisions of the Directive into three laws. First of all, § 1 provides for amendments to the Construction Code, § 2 supplements the Act on the Implementation of the Construction Code and the Planning Act and § 3 specifies the Act on the Organisation of the Energy Economy. § 1 of the draft law is amended as follows: Paragraph 651, which sets out the requirements for the infrastructure of electric cars, is added to the Construction Code. On the basis of the draft, the requirements for new and substantially renovated buildings, for which more than 10 parking spaces are intended, will apply from the beginning of 2021. In the case of a dwelling, the loading infrastructure must be installed on each parking space, i.e. a pipe or throat suitable for transporting wires, thereby creating a presumption of the installation of a loading point if the owners of the apartment wish to do so. In the case of non-residential buildings, the parking garage shall be fitted with at least one charging point and each fifth parking place with charging infrastructure. In the case of existing buildings for which no construction works are carried out, the requirements are different. For example, an existing non-residential parking lot shall be fitted with at least one loading point. It shall apply to at least 20 parking spaces and shall enter into force in 2025. In the case of an existing dwelling which is not substantially reconstructed, the requirements for the installation of the charging infrastructure shall not apply. Secondly, § 652 is added to the Building Code, which links energy-efficient reconstruction measures to energy savings. Perhaps, in the case of future measures, the system will work, the greater the win, the greater the support. The indicators used to determine the amount of energy savings are, for example, the energy efficiency figure determined on the basis of actual consumption data or the forecast change in energy consumption reported in the energy audit. Thirdly, § 69 of the Construction Code, "Energy efficiency of the heating and cooling system', is replaced by new paragraphs 6911-694. Paragraph 691 extends the definition of a technical system to include not only energy-using technical systems but also energy-producing technical systems. The definition of the automation system is also laid down. Paragraph 692 sets out the requirements for the installation of a building's technical system and § 693 for the assessment of its energy efficiency. Paragraph 694 looks at increasing the energy efficiency of heating and cooling systems. In general, Directive 2018/844 focuses on the regulation of larger and more powerful systems, as the strict requirements laid down in Directive 2010/31 (EU) did not work in practice. For example, if the building register had to assess and declare the energy efficiency of 12 kilowatts more powerful heating systems and 20 kilowatts more powerful cooling systems, the draft provides for this threshold to be shifted to 70 kilowatts. On the other hand, in order to increase the energy efficiency of non-residential heating or cooling systems, they must be equipped with automation only if these systems are more than 290 kilowatts powerful. These requirements must therefore be met for a much smaller number of dwellings. § 2 of the Bill complements the Act on the Implementation of the Construction Code and the Planning Act with new sections 32 to 34 laying down the implementing provisions for the abovementioned amendments to the Construction Code. § 3 of the Bill complements the Energy Economy Organisation Act with new requirements that give the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications the task of preparing a long-term reconstruction strategy for Estonia. I would like to ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U502	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U503	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Has the draft procedure also discussed such an aspect that, if a new building is built or substantially renovated and renovated, the project will have a "energy label' calculation, that if it belongs to Class A, Class B or Class C, but, as far as I know, this inspection will no longer be carried out in later use, will it also respond, so that the equipment that is installed in it, even if they are class-compliant, is set up in such a way that, according to real numbers and use, this class will also be achieved? Has such regular follow-up, its execution and, where appropriate, the recording of data been discussed? It may be a beautiful definition of energy class, but the reality is something else and we actually do not meet our energy saving targets. Has it been discussed, is it meant to be, is that even a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U504	Thank you. As far as I am concerned, this check should take place at the moment the building is received, whether it is built according to the design and whether the equipment that is installed is post-project. Perhaps this project has previously been evaluated for potential energy savings in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U505	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U506	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Does this draft concern only those buildings that will be built in 2021? All these buildings that were built before 2021 will they be covered by this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U507	Thank you. Yes, if they are substantially reconstructed, they will be extended to them too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U508	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U509	Thank you. I will specify my question. I also said no on the question that, at the moment when the building is granted authorisation, of course, these data will be reviewed as to what the energy class is. These devices that are installed there, as if they were supposed to give out this class. But my question is, as far as I know, we don't have a follow-up if this building has worked for a year, two, five or ten years. Very much depends on how these devices are configured, whether they are used properly, whether anything is switched off at all. Perhaps there is real follow-up, and should it be dealt with, so that we know that what is on paper also corresponds to reality in use, year, two, three, or five?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U510	Thank you. I do owe you an answer here. As far as I know, there's no running check, but... [[M. Netship comments from the hall.]] I don't know if there's any discussion that we should have done this check. However, as the draft states, it is necessary to start installing automation from a certain size and to assess the need for this automation. In fact, if the money was already spent on automation, it would assume that it would also be put to work so that it would return to its economics. There's no point in spending and then not turning on the machine.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U511	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U512	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. You answered my question in case these houses were reconstructed. Did I get it right then that even houses that are 10 or 20 years old and are being converted must be built according to the bill, must comply with everything that is in the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U513	I mean, the building may be older, but if it is reconstructed, it must achieve the greatest possible energy efficiency. This support is based on the magnitude of the energy saving effect that will be achieved. So this also applies to old buildings.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U514	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I ask Kristen Michal, vice-chairman of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U515	Good manager! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on Tuesday 21 April and, following the presentation of the draft, the following conclusions were reached: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 6 May (consensually), to appoint Kristen Michal as rapporteur (also consensually) and to propose that the first reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U516	Thank you. You have questions too. Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U517	Good meeting manager! Good waitress! Do you think, given today's real desire to buy electric cars, that the numbers of planned charging points that are reserved for houses are sufficient, or should they be planned to be larger today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U518	Thank you. Good colleague! You were at the same meeting where this bill was discussed, and you will probably also be at future meetings where it will be discussed. You're asking about the number of seats. The rapporteur, Mr Sergeyev, described how it was appreciated. Looking ahead, in general, these projections are usually such that, at the outset, some effects are overestimated and, at one point in time, when the market starts to grow, including electric cars and other measures, they have already been underestimated. Today's requirements that more than ten parking spaces, as the Minister mentioned here, and one charging infrastructure readiness, would be above a certain size by two or three, I do not think it is overdimensioned. Rather, at one point it may be unneeded, but if this need is greater, I say it on the count that the entry of electric cars on the market is slower than maybe the general idea of them is, but at one point they will come anyway, I think we should be ready for that moment. We want to be as clean and modern as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-06_U519	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 173. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline of 20 May at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 20:24 a.m.
