ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U1	Good day, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the 5th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. As usual, the hearing begins with the submission of drafts and enquiries. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U2	Thank you, good manager. I have a procedural question. Last week, more than 20 Members of Parliament filed an inquiry intended for Mart Helme. However, it turns out that you have refused to forward this question to the addressee, a member of the government. The question is, before new enquiries and drafts are submitted, why you have started to block the work of the members of the Riigikogu and the right of the member of the Riigikogu to make inquiries to a member of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U3	Thank you. Not at all have I started to block the right of members of the Riigikogu to make enquiries. In this reply, which you received from the heirs, it is precisely formulated in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act, which document or inquiry qualifies for an inquiry and which one does not. All questions and enquiries received in writing will be examined together with the sitting department, a decision will be made and Riigikogu members will also be invited to submit their questions in a better way. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U4	Thank you. Indeed, you wrote that instead of asking for a discussion, which will allow us to discuss this issue at length and in depth in this Chamber, I could ask a question in the form of a written question, which is far less comprehensive, or in Question Time, which is also very regulated and does not allow for a substantive debate. Now that you yourself referred to the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Home and Rules of Procedure Act really states that a Member of Parliament has the right to make an inquiry and has the right to present it in the area of government of the Minister concerned. The Act of the Government of the Republic, in turn, describes the area of government of the Minister of the Interior. And his area of government is directly related to the subject we dealt with in our inquiry. This concerns Russia's influence and the initiatives planned by the Government's Minister for Home Affairs to limit this influence. Perhaps my question is the same: why are you selectively refusing to pass on the requests made by Members under the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U5	For a very simple reason: not all enquiries comply with established standards. All those corresponding to them will be transferred and those which do not comply will be returned in accordance with the law, together with explanations. But let's keep going. Jürgen Ligi has his hand up. Please! Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U6	The conversation between you is a bit cryptic for most members of the Riigikogu. I understand what my neighbor is asking, but I don't understand your answers. Please tell me what was wrong with that question! Why exactly did you consider it unfit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U7	The authors of the inquiry received an exact reply. This has nothing to do with the discussion of the rules of our Riigikogu sitting and this topic. Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U8	Thank you. This is very directly related to the work of a member of the Riigikogu in this Chamber and also to the meetings of the Riigikogu. The justification you have put forward was not substantive, and indeed there was the impression that you are simply blocking matters that, for some reason, are uncomfortable with your party associate's Minister of the Interior. As the law describes it, and the law states, a member of the Riigikogu has the right to question the government of a member of the government. The government of the Minister of Home Affairs is internal security and the government of the Minister of Home Affairs is by law to submit draft laws to this effect. Our inquiry specifically concerned these planned draft laws. That's what we asked about. Yet you refused to convey this question. Why do you approach questions so selectively and prevent them from being presented?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U9	Thank you. I have answered you both in writing and orally here. This is not a procedural issue at this time. Let's move on to the hearing! Indrek Saarel had a desire to pass on an inquiry or a draft. Here's the chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U10	Thank you, Mr President. No, Tarmo, we are not talking about pharmacy reform this time, but we all want the people of Estonia to have the opportunity to age with dignity and to share our care burden as sensibly as possible and the care services to be as modern as possible. This has also been confirmed by all the political parties in Parliament today, including those in the government, in the last elections, they have applied for a mandate for it in one form or another. It is as if there is consensus on this issue, yet the new signals from the government, which has been in office for ten months, are such that it is being re-examined, and this is not a very encouraging activity to find some kind of positive development in the coming years. It should also be recalled that in recent years very in-depth analyses have been carried out and specific policy recommendations have been developed to ensure these modern opportunities in Estonia as well. Therefore, the Social Democrats consider it their responsibility to come to the aid of the government union and submit a draft decision by the Riigikogu on 'Proposaling the Government of the Republic to develop legislative changes to solve the problem of long-term care burden' with their group. We hope that the government will find the determination to come before us in the near future with concrete proposals on how these things could be better organised in Estonia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U11	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U12	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, More than 20 members of the Riigikogu handed over an inquiry addressed to the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme last week, in which we wanted answers on what are the real initiatives, the real changes that the Minister of the Interior, responsible for internal security, plans to take to limit the influence of Russia in Estonia. The fact that the President of the Riigikogu decides, on the basis of his own discretion, to ask members of the Riigikogu to his party boss, Mart Helme, the Minister of the Interior is simply not able to pass on, of course, cannot be accepted. The justification used by Henn Põljaas in refusing to forward an enquiry was that this topic does not fall within the government of the Minister of the Interior. If Russia's influence and internal security are not part of the Ministry of the Interior, what does it belong to? Legally, it is the task of the Minister of the Interior to prepare and produce legislation. And that's what we're asking. I would very much like Henn Põlluaas, sitting behind me, not to behave in his position as an EKRE handler, whose task is not to address or prevent these issues from being dealt with in this Chamber by the chairman of his party, but to act as a Speaker of Parliament who contributes to the work of Members of Parliament. We'll ask you again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U13	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. The Management Board decides on their future procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Next up, presence check. There are 87 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 14. Now we come to this week's agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the fifth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 86 members of the Riigikogu, no votes against and one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U14	We will go to today's subject, which is the third reading of the draft law 105 on the amendment of the sports law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. According to the Home and Working Procedures Act, we begin negotiations. Each representative of a political group may make a statement with a duration of 5 + 3 minutes. Kristina Šmigun-Vähi has signed up for a speech on behalf of the Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There are three important issues at the heart of amending this law. Firstly, scholarships for athletes and the remuneration of athletes and the conclusion of contracts. Secondly, the processing of sports results in the Estonian Sports Register and the right of sports organisations to disclose sports results. Thirdly, the establishment of a national contact point to combat the manipulation of sporting competitions and the transfer of its functions to a private legal entity. The proposed changes concern sport organisations and sports schools with three key target groups in the field of sport: athletes, coaches and sports judges. A little history. In 2015, the problems of coach remuneration were solved and national support measures were put in place. Since 2018, sport organisations have been provided with a support measure for the development of sports judges participating in the Estonian Championships and Cup Competitions and the possibility to compensate voluntary sports judges up to EUR 20 per day. The adoption of this draft will lead to legal clarity in the payment of scholarships and salaries to athletes. The draft establishes a specific regulation for the payment of sports scholarships and grants to avoid disputes and abuse of scholarships and to create a more stable situation in the sport sector. Another important topic of the draft is the processing of sports results in the Estonian Sport Register and the right of sports organisations to disclose sports results. Due to the specific nature of sport, the draft gives the right to collect, systematise, analyse and publish sports results without the consent of the data subject. Such a right would be exercised by the sports organisation, the sports school and the controller and the authorised processor of the sports database of the licensed athlete in the performance of the sports performances of the sports association, the county sports association, the specific field of sport or the competition calendar published on the sports association's website. Thus, the distinction would apply only to competitions included in the competition calendar published on the website and to licensed athletes, in other cases the processing of personal data is based on the consent of the person. And the third important issue is the establishment of a national contact point to combat the manipulation of sporting competitions. Manipulation of sports competitions is considered to be one of the greatest threats of today's sport, as it overshadows athletic values, such as reliability, fair play and honesty against others. According to the draft, sport organisations will have a partner to advise and train them in the fight against manipulation of sports competitions. Estonian sports organisations are no longer required to fight against the manipulation of sports competitions on their own, but receive help from the contact point. All these three amendments are very important and the Reform Party Group supports the adoption of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U16	Thank you. More... There is still a wish to speak. Please, Indrek Saar, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democrats, I am pleased that this law has reached the third reading in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. We know that the issues covered by this amendment to the law are some of the three things mentioned by the previous speaker, with a beard. Probably the most debates and debates have perhaps been held on the first issue, i.e. the creation of differences for the payment of sports scholarships and sports grants. For years, this has caused confusion, often leading clubs to bankruptcy or bankruptcy, and has led to many misunderstandings and misunderstandings. I am pleased that this topic has finally reached third reading in the Chamber of the Riigikogu as a result of the multi-annual preparation, and I want to congratulate the entire sports community, the entire sports network and, of course, the sports department of the Ministry of Culture. The latter has conducted these negotiations in a balanced manner and has managed to reach an agreement with both the Ministry of Finance and the tax administration in order to create the differences that are essential, because we know that in real life these sports scholarships and sports grants have been used in one form or another, but often not legally. They will now be finalised as a specific social agreement. Of course, we can see that the other two issues, particularly concerning the manipulation of sports competitions, remain topical. Against the background of the latest news, we have again been assured that, even where it seems that everything is happening under the attention of the large public, with very large amounts of money behind it, but also very large examples, it is often mistaken for agreed rules and is still trying to increase its income. This, however, will actually come back to the area as a boomerang, because what kind of example are you talking about if it is not a fair competition, but it is simply a financial gain. Of course, the topic is painful not only for Estonian sport, but for sport at all, but also for Estonian sport again and again, doping. Doping offences can also be more specifically regulated by this amendment to the law so that in the future, those who contributed to it can be more quickly and more clearly held accountable. Ultimately, we come back to the fact that if sport does not follow the rules of fair play, the question arises as to why should it be supported at all by public funds. After all, the role of sport is to set an example and inspire, not to break people's illusions. Once again, I am pleased that this law has come this far and, of course, the Social Democrats support the completion of this third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U18	Thank you. Looks like there's no more call request. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 105. Previously on Beauty and the Beast... Now, we can go to the vote. I am voting on the amendment of the sports law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in this connection, on the draft law amending other laws 105. Please take a stand and vote. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U19	After hitting the hammer, all applicants have the opportunity to register for speaking in a free microphone. There are many right requests. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 16 February, the news received information that Marko Mihkelson, Ambassador of the Reform Party, has made a post on social media requiring the President of the Riigikogu, Henn Põlluaas, to be recalled from office because he ignores the position of the parliament when making territorial demands on Russia and threatens the security of Estonia. Marko Mihkelson notes that the President of the Riigikogu cannot talk about territorial requirements for Russia because the Riigikogu has not given him such authority. What do you think of this statement? I personally wonder whose interests Marko Mihkelson is actually acting as a Member of Parliament. I think there is no dispute: according to § 122 of the Constitution, the land border of Estonia is determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty of February 2, 1920. In the exact same wording, the above is also stated in subsection 2 (2) of the State Border Act. I also think that there is no dispute that part of the land, as defined by the Tartu Peace Treaty, is currently in Russia's possession. Thus, the position of the Parliament to which Mihkelson refers in his post is nonexistent and pales before the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. As a result of the above, I do not see any reason why the President of the Riigikogu, Henn Põljaas, would have done anything illegal or threatened the security of Estonia. As we know, Estonia is an independent and independent democratic republic, and there should be a right to talk about things that cause concern to the hearts of Estonians at every level If we stop doing this or do not dare or do so, we will no longer be an independent state, deserving only of the status of a Union republic known from history. However, I see another problem in this post. Paragraph 232 of the Penal Code provides for the formation of a criminal offence which has a short title 'State treason'. The alternative to its composition is known to include, among other things, assisting the foreign enemy in activities aimed at the territorial integrity of the Republic of Estonia without violence as a criminal offence. From a subjective point of view, the perpetrator does not need to have intention in relation to anti-State activities, but the intent must include, at least at the level of indirect intent, the fact that the person being assisted is an alien enemy whose actions are directed against the independence and independence of the Republic of Estonia. On the basis of the above, I believe that Marko Mihkelson's activities have the characteristics of the criminal offence set out in § 232 of the Penal Code, which I ask the law enforcement authorities to check. His social media post includes an agitation for Estonia to waive its territorial integrity requirement, which is done at the parliamentary level, and also a requirement for the President of the Riigikogu, Henn Põljaas, to be unduly recalled. This is an obvious threat to the internal and external security of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U21	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U22	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not talking about such a tough thing, but it's not going to be gentle. See, sometimes when the speed is too high, the curve is not taken out either directly or figuratively. Last fall, I was in the big playground of the wild boar in southern Pärnu County ♪ soon to go there again, where it turned out that the Rail Baltic route would not take out the turn and go straight across the big game. Last night I was near Tallinn in Raplamaa, where it also turned out that the Rail Baltic route would not take out the curve and the train would start driving, as the young family found out, right under their window. It doesn't go straight across the Keila River, it goes crooked. Of course, it's not as bad as any other person whose house he goes straight through. I was standing in front of this house with my master last night. He's been worried for six years. In the meantime, there was hope that the route would be made a little further away, take the curve out, but now it turns out it's going right through the house. And the money's big. I would not have talked about this if the intelligence of public investment was not discussed today in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. Rail Baltic with its 1.21 billion is a real master there. And then what's the result? The result is that often, as we have heard today and the report shows, we do not take the curve out as a country, as a public sector. I'm not talking about building getting more expensive. There are also no socio-economic analyses of how it affects ordinary people, nature, savages, people who live at a possible route and are scared for years, expect that maybe an e-mail will come at no time, either today or next year, and it turns out that it is still passing the balcony, past the window, but maybe next time a hundred meters away. It's not normal to live in a scary place like this. Or as I was told yesterday, if you agree, you'll get a motivational fee. Big motivational fee! But do you know how much this incentive fee is for giving up your home? 1,000 euros! Not to mention the vibrations and all that. Look, yeah, it doesn't take the curve out. We should also watch as a country and as statesmen how we take this curve out. By the way, I don't know if you know that the Estonian state is the world champion in terms of public investment. Champion of the world! No other country is as high a percentage of GDP as we are, but its meaning, its socio-economic benefits, its impact on people has not been studied as a rule. I don't know. We put an axe, we put it out of the corner, and quite often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U23	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen! When, on 6 February, with the help of the media, it became public that bailiffs were taking more money from people with reduced capacity to pay their debts than they had previously been, it was particularly sad about the mother of two children who wrote that she had EUR 221 to live, then I approached Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg with the question of how this situation could have arisen. True, to this day he has not been able to answer me, but it is not so important. It has to be recognised that action was taken very actively, and just as the Minister of Justice made public or published on 13 February, the meeting with bailiffs, the Unemployment Insurance Fund and the representatives of the Estonian Disability Advisory Board took place and the situation was quickly resolved. How did such a situation arise, and why? In the meantime, bailiffs calculated the detentions manually and the Unemployment Insurance Fund complied with the capacity allowance for people with reduced working capacity in accordance with the freezing orders, whereas now the calculation took place through the new so-called detention module, i.e. through a computer system, which is a tool. When a person calculates, looks, weighs, decides, sees from whom much is deducted, and takes into account that there must be a minimum of maintenance, this module obviously had not passed the test period and there were many sufferers. I'm glad this thing's practically working out. Returns to the people were started quickly, but there were plenty of concerns and there were several callers from both the Social Affairs Committee and the electoral district, not only from the electoral district, but from all over Estonia. Perhaps it would also be important to know this and to put a verbatim report that the estimated minimum subsistence is EUR 221 and 36 cents, and for each dependant, the minimum subsistence rate will increase by a third. It is also important, in fact, to pay attention to the fact that, as a general rule, the bailiff may not, as the first option, arrest the work capacity allowance at all. The attachment of the capacity allowance must be exceptional and can only be carried out on the basis of the criteria laid down by law and in the event that, first, the recovery of the debtor's other assets has not led to, or has not led to, the result, and, second, the attachment is fair in relation to the type of claim and the amount of income. This is the decision of the bailiff on each case. He or she must identify the person's income and dependants in advance and, on the basis of this information, have the right to make arrangements for partial retention of the disability allowance. The decision shall be reasoned. On average, people with a lack of work capacity receive an average of 413 euros and 70 cents, while those with partial work capacity receive an average of 235 euros and 81 cents. The bailiff may respect 20% of the capacity allowance paid to the debtor, less the estimated minimum subsistence allowance, i.e. 20% of the difference between the debtor's income and the minimum subsistence allowance, as published by Statistics Estonia. Unfortunately, this was not done, people were hurt, they were disappointed in the country, and I very much hope that the Minister of Justice will also answer me in writing. But indeed, I would like to acknowledge that both the Unemployment Insurance Fund and the House on the side of the fulfillers quickly settled this problem. I would like to hope that people, as their fellow official spoke earlier, will take turns so that people do not get caught in the technique, in the gears, and through it their families will not suffer. Because if someone owes money for an apartment, there will be new late payments, and there will be more trouble for already sick people than it needs to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-17_U25	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing today's session. Have a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 15.38 p.m.
