ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu members in the hall and behind the screens! We have a very historic day today. First of all, 100 years have passed since the first Riigikogu elections. Secondly, today is the last day of this season's sitting. And thirdly, today is the first real teleworking day. Before going to the adoption of the Bills Act, I will announce that I have received a letter from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia asking for this problem to be resolved, that after yesterday's decision, it is as if the work lasts forever on teleworking. I have such a suggestion that the Bureau will decide that sittings will be held as usual from the 11th date unless, of course, exceptional circumstances arise. If the EKRE Group accepts this, then this is what we will do. It's a yes. Okay, then let's start the usual session. First, the delivery of drafts and enquiries. Echo Kallas, procedural question. The hand tells me it's a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U2	Am I hearing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U3	I hear you, yes, I hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U4	Thank you. I would like to commend the guidance that we have such an extraordinary opportunity to try the form of teleworking. Thank you very much. And power for us!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U5	On behalf of the Governing Board, I accept my thanks. Kalle Grünthal, what is it? A procedural question? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U6	Thank you, Mr President, for discussing my procedural question now. I have a request that when spoken, please speak louder. I have to sit all the time with my ear against that earpiece.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U7	Message received, message received. Please speak loud and clear! Valdo Randpere, also a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U8	Hello? Can't you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U9	We can hear you, but we can't see you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U10	Well, let's see what we can do here. I'm not gonna change anything right now. If you can't, you can't. I'll see why he doesn't show me. But I have this question that yesterday there was a very long discussion that we would not be able to be in the Chamber at once and at once at a remote hearing. But now I see a lot of people in the hall. So what happened overnight?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U11	We can be both in the hall and in teleworking. This option is possible. Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U12	Thank you. I have a procedural proposal for our technical department. Perhaps you can hear where the President is sitting. But the sound at the back of this hall is very variable in quality. Maybe we could just turn the button on a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U13	Yeah, passed on that wish. Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U14	I don't know if you can hear me. You can see everything on this screen, but how's the vote going? It's just a technical question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U15	I can hear you! You will get the buttons on the screen where the "Cancel from Speech" and "Clear from Word" are currently available. That's where the buttons come when they go to vote. That's the story. All right, let's get started. There is no wish to pass on the drafts and enquiries; no one wants to pass them on. Then the presence check, please! Just in case, we'll wait a little while for all the signals to get through the channels.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U16	85 members of the Riigikogu have registered their presence. Yes, Kalle Grünthal!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U17	Thank you. A procedural question. There's a left-hand hand on this remote control. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U18	The black hand is if you want to take the floor procedurally. That's a story. No, the hand doesn't have a remote hearing sign, the remote hearing sign is a wifi sign. The hand is still there so you can ask a procedural question. Hey, can we start this trial now? Imre Sooäär.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U19	That's the question: Is it possible to turn off the microphone somewhere? Microsoft Teams can be turned off, but there is no place on this screen where you can turn off the microphone. There's always a sound... Do you have a solution for that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U20	I can't answer that. Everything has to be in the manual, there has to be an answer to that question. Well, I didn't really hear that particular performance either, so I have a request for everyone to speak loud and clear. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U21	Hello! It's all a bit of a test, too, and I had the wrong page before the check-in. How can you register for attendance later?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U22	The usual way, I get it. It is that when there is a vote, you press the vote button, and you will be there, as we usually do. So, Valdo Randpere has one more question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U23	I don't have a question. I just wanted to say to Imre Sooääre that, actually, with this system, it should be that as long as you haven't raised your hand or dealt with something that gives you the word, your microphone is off.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U24	Thank you very much. Thank you all very much for the lively conversation. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U25	Thank you, manager. I now have two questions. The first is why a black hand, and the second is why a black hand gets in the way. I was in line before, and Valdo's black hand was after me, but you took his black hand first.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U26	That's how they appeared on my screen. I'll take it exactly in the order you see on this screen. I don't know exactly how to answer it. Anyway, it's the way the system is setting up, and I'll see what's come up. I'm not manipulating that list myself. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U27	I have a procedural question that is of a very fundamental nature. In particular, how is it ensured that, for example, if we are discussing some of the central issues, existential issues in terms of the survival of the Republic of Estonia, there will be no green men standing next to those people who are taking part in a remote session and are going to vote, in some cases a Swedish intelligence representative who could force him to vote as they wish?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U28	I can't answer that. It's a question of every human being's responsibility. You could say that if someone allows the vote to influence themselves in any way, it is a violation of the law and it simply must not be. Of course, there's no fence in your homes around the screen. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U29	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is still a question of the security of the Republic of Estonia. It's not like we have security right behind us in the hall so no one gets in this hall. And now, at some point, a person is somewhere in an x, he's hitchhiking somewhere in a closet or behind a closet, and he's got maybe a couple of machine guns pointed at him to do as he's told. A person's desire to maintain his life does everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U30	What do you suggest I do now? Today's session is a teleworking session in accordance with the procedure approved by the Bureau. This system has been tested twice. And I would not be happy to disperse the debate so that we discuss all the fundamental issues related to the teleworking session. We are conducting the first teleworking session today and all the experiences and questions that are in this connection deserve to be assessed and analysed later. That's all I have to say about it. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U31	Thank you, Mr President. We've been asked about security threats. Just in case, I ask whether, for example, the agreement of the government's leading party with the United Russia, which is still in force, is a security threat. And is this a lower security risk than the fact that maybe a member of the Riigikogu is not alone in his office at the time of the vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U32	Yeah, the questions are getting very fundamental. I think that if the hall accepts at all times, we will still go to the agenda of today's sitting. We will all take these comments into account and discuss them after we start to look at all the details of the teleworking session. So that's it. Again, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U33	Thank you. I have a procedural question. On 18 November 2020, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu adopted Decision No 122 concerning the conduct of a remote session. And there's one point that relates to solving a technical obstacle. Paragraph 22 states that if the obstacle does not permit the hearing to be conducted and the obstacle cannot be removed within a reasonable period of time, the President shall close the sitting. Since you did not presently provide an objective explanation for ensuring the security of the conduct of this sitting, I do not think it is possible to carry out this sitting at the moment, as the decision of the Riigikogu's Executive Board provides.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U34	I would not interpret it that way, I do not see any obstacles to holding today's sitting. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U35	Good manager! Maybe you didn't notice, but I had two questions at first. The first was why a black hand, not a white hand. But the second question is already systemic. I was ahead of the line both times, but black hands, first Randpere, and then my colleague Michal's black hand came later. But you gave them your word before me. So those who are far away jump in front of those in the hall. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U36	Let's take that into account. But you have to press the black hand if you want to take the floor procedurally. And then your wish goes in the same line right there. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U37	I have a comment to Mr Ernits that this is not a black hand, but is actually blue. And secondly, Mr Ernits pushes the speech button, so he stays behind. If you want to ask a procedural question, press this blue hand and then you will move in line as you wish. But if you choose to speak, you will be behind all those who have pressed the procedural question button. But I have a suggestion that we go to the agenda of the sitting. Mr President, you have the right to end these procedural questions. Today, there are no issues relevant to Estonia's security on the agenda, and it is really rational after this meeting to gather all these experiences and discuss, if anything needs to be changed, to make some improvements.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U38	Rational suggestion! Last speech, Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U39	I wanted to point out that maybe I would really change the color of that hand. Because, if you recall history, the Black Hand was a Serbian terrorist organization that unleashed World War I.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U40	Are you sure about this? But let us also take note of this remark.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U41	And now let's get to the agenda. We have three points on the agenda. The first is the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Forensic Affairs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (implementation of the Order on Mutual Recognition of Arrests and Confiscations and the European Public Prosecutor's Office Regulation) number 261. We will begin with the third reading of this draft, which calls for a majority of the votes. Do the representatives of the political groups want to make speeches? There is no wish to negotiate. The commission has proposed a final vote on the draft 261. Once again, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the bill as a law. Please take a stand and vote. Let's start as usual. [[It's a saalikutsung.]] Okay, call time's up. I am voting on the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Forensic Law (the Regulation on Mutual Recognition of Arrests and Confiscations and the European Public Prosecutor's Office Regulation) 261 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U42	We're gonna wait a minute. Maybe there's still a few voices left of the cables somewhere. I don't think so. 91 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, with zero votes against, zero abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U43	Second item: Draft Act 256 amending the Natural Gas Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, third reading. Would you like to start negotiations? There is no wish to participate in the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote of 256 on the draft. Do you need a hall call? No, we don't, so we're going to the vote. I shall vote on the draft law amending the Law on natural gas initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 256. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U44	85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, there was no one against, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U45	And third item: Draft Act amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group with number 122. Would you like to start negotiations? There is no wish to participate in the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote on the draft 122. There's no need for a hall call. I will then vote on the draft Act amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act 122 initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Please take a stand and vote. This draft was voted in favour of... Yes, Kaja Kallas, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U46	The problem is, we got one of the ambassadors kicked out of the system. He couldn't vote. Is it possible to repeat the vote or how can it be done if the system fails?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U47	Repeat! Then I shall cut off the vote and vote again so that there is no problem. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U48	I'm asking for an additional explanation for these occasions. What does a member of the Riigikogu do if, for some reason, he does not get in touch or does not get this vote on his computer? And not at the trial session will we now be at the trial session, but at the real sitting, and it will have a totally decisive weight in the important votes. So what's going to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U49	We have discussed this and shaped the view that in the current solution, it is the case that, if there is a glitch, we can stop the vote and do it again. For technical reasons, it is possible to suspend the vote and restart it. It's the same!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U50	Thank you, Mr President. I find it a little incomprehensible that we are going to vote again now. You have now mentioned a variety of reasons here, for example that no one can vote or the internet disappears to my knowledge or, as I recall, by such standards, the Riigikogu is not functioning and functioning. If you claim to be right, please provide a reference to a specific paragraph, paragraph and paragraph. Otherwise, this is an act of arbitrary action by a member of the Board of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U51	Member of the Board of the Riigikogu, the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu, has various freedoms to chair the sitting. However, the paragraph you asked me is § 84 "Abort voting': "If the voting procedure is violated in the course of the voting process or if a member of the Riigikogu is unable to vote due to a technical failure of the voting board, the President of the sitting shall interrupt the vote by confirming his decision by a hammer. " I don't know if I hit a hammer. Anyway, I'm gonna abort and hit the hammer. It's perfectly acceptable. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U52	Thank you. I have a procedural request that those members of the Riigikogu who participate in a remote session put on headphones and microphones that were distributed to us, and at the same time turn on the picture. Then we'll see if the green men are behind them or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U53	Message received and passed. Or rather, everyone could see and hear it now using the screen. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U54	Thank you very much. I do not want to fall into conspiracy theories, but I would like to make sure that this is not a very light-handed consideration or a light-handed reason, if it is simply announced that I have no connection, no one can vote. This could be more serious and more considerate because it could otherwise be misused. I say that with a view to the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U55	I agree with you. But we are now at the first real teleworking session and there is little reason to assume that this is going well, absolutely all the details and details are going smoothly, especially when it comes to such video and electronic arrangements. Because of this, I think, I have the right to act in accordance with this paragraph. It's justified. But, of course, you're right that we need to go through the details and see how this thing's gonna work. I think that, given the implementation of such systems at all, especially when it comes to such a large and complex system as the implementation of a remote session of the Riigikogu, it is still taking time to eliminate these errors and to generalise the experience. That's the story. But I thank all the members of the Riigikogu for their comments and I am sure the technical service will take them into account. And also, essentially, we will of course discuss all these aspects on the board. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. It would be very important, as Kaja Kallas said, that one person could not vote on who that person was. It is also necessary to know in such cases how the person who does not have the connection will give a signal at all. Does he call anyone, does he write a check if he doesn't have a sound? What are these possibilities? Calling someone is a mild solution, especially when we decide on billions of support packages or other extremely important issues that cost us billions. Such a procedure for holding a hearing if we do not know who has lost the network and if it has actually fallen off it is not reliable. We need to have more detailed data.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U57	This person, as I am told here, must report to the messenger's address that he cannot vote. This is the case for interruptions. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U58	We are in our group's room, and it was Jüri Jaanson, who was still subject to special conditions, who could not vote. That is why I made this procedural remark quickly, as it indicated that the system had been expelled. That's the deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U59	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U60	Now, if I can find the microphone. Do I have a microphone working? [[George Jaanson hasn't been heard because of a bad sound.]] I was the one who got the system kicked out. The reason is simply that my system is a little different. They print everything they tell me in the hall, I don't use headphones because I can't use them. So it's a little different. For me, this is the same place to study right now. Technically, this text can be corrected afterwards. So today is actually quite a grateful situation where we can test the technical system of the whole remote session.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U61	Okay, thanks. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U62	Thank you, good manager. Would it be possible to open this virtual courtroom a little earlier? Physically, it is possible to come to the hall a quarter of an hour before, but today, a quarter of an hour before the hearing, virtually, it was not possible to come here. Could it be some time that ten minutes or whatever minutes before the virtual court will be opened? Then you can check the comm and see if the camera and the microphone are working.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U63	According to my records, the hall was open at 9:30, and people came here. I was here too, and I saw that everyone who logged in came on the screen. So it's possible. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U64	What we are seeing now is, however, that it is possible to create an obstructive situation in remote sessions, where technical failures and failure to hear and not to understand and not to see, and I do not yet know what behind. Whether or not it was a technical failure and whether or not it was temporary or not it has not been put into place. So there is a proposal to the Bureau to seriously consider these issues. And it is also important to put on the agenda that the President of the sitting cannot, in essence, have a discretionary change in the outcome of the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U65	The President of the sitting shall not change the result of the vote, but he may suspend the vote. It's inside the Home and Working Procedures Act. But your comments will be taken into account and we will certainly have plenty to discuss. This is a very big undertaking that we are practically working on for the first time today. I'm sure there's a lot of details that need smoothing. So let us take all these opinions into account. In principle, the Riigikogu has decided that teleworking as a form must be introduced in connection with coronavirism. Those decisions have been made. Today is the first rehearsal of how we can turn this thing on, so in that sense, it's a natural process. Andres Metsoja, please! Again, your hand was before Peter Ernitsa...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U66	Thank you. Good Riigikogu hall! This is a serious point of thinking, so that there is a better data communication connection in Estonia. Everything else works very well, just the picture hangs sometimes and then it goes for a few seconds, and it comes back. This is something that we can really change in Estonia. Everything else, frankly, is such a pleasant discussion when a new toy is delivered. But the power for us!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U67	Thank you. Peter Ernitsa has his hand up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U68	Thank you. Now I've become a black-handed man. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are discussing procedural issues here, but Santa has become very nervous at the door. He's been there for over ten minutes, and I've been there to calm him down.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U69	I'm glad Mr. Ernits calmed Santa Claus. This is certainly very important today. However, I say that our trial has only lasted 33 minutes in spite of everything. There have been three votes and a number of procedural issues, so we have not been very slow. Does Peter Ernits want to speak for a second time? What else is there? Please, Peter Ernits! What? Okay, then try to put that wish out, you still have to do it. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U70	Thank you, Mr President. I have such a fundamental question for you. You said we've been implementing the hearing for half an hour now. What is your assessment of this hearing? Is everything reliable? Is everything safe? Is it guaranteed that all members of the Riigikogu will be able to participate, so that the hearing is equivalent to what is happening in the Chamber? Can you skip an equal sign here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U71	The hearing is, I think, safe. There are no problems with participation. Almost all members of the Riigikogu have been able to sign in and register. And within the limits that the system allows, this hearing is secure. Well, then, we will discuss in the future how to further enhance security. Now I consider the official part of our sitting closed. Oh, I'm sorry! Of course, we had a vote. The vote was adjourned. So, again then. I'll call the ambassadors first. Now, we are ready for the vote. I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, with 122 numbers. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U72	85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U73	I am simply informing you that there was also a problem in our group. Kert Kingol kicked it out of the system. (You vote in the hall: "Redo!")
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U74	Now we have a problem. The vote is already over. I can rule out the vote, but I can't turn it back. It is not a problem for me to interrupt it once more and to have another vote. Everyone must be able to vote. So I am interrupting this vote right now and asking everyone to try to give themselves the opportunity to vote. I am now withdrawing the vote on Bill 122. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U75	Now we see that whether there is a problem with technical readiness or something else, if you want to vote differently, the results are different. And that suggests that such re-elections must not be possible. Once a vote has been taken, whether or not anyone has been able to take part, there must be no re-votes. Because we see that the results are different. Will we then vote until we get the result that is acceptable to anyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U76	Well, I'd say so much that we have this procedure without teleworking. As I read out, § 84 says that if a member of the Riigikogu cannot vote for any technical reason, he has the right to request a repetition of the vote. So in that sense, I will do as the law requires. But what I am saying to Mr Helme is that I should introduce you to the discussions that have been held in the Bureau on all these issues. And certainly these discussions will continue. We are just faced with the dilemma that the law and the procedure laid down by the government are such that if some members of the Riigikogu are prevented from participating directly and they cannot come into this Chamber because they are connected with the virus in one way or another, according to the Constitution, they are still entitled to participate in the work of the Riigikogu and vote. That's why it's a form of teleworking. So undoubtedly, we're facing a dilemma. Personally, I also think that voting in the normal way is more comfortable and better, but unfortunately we are in this situation. If we now say that we do not vote on teleworking, there is an immediate protest that a member of the Riigikogu must be able to participate in the voting. And the fact that the results of the vote are different may well happen even if someone goes out in the meantime. And you can't force anyone to vote. It's a free choice for all of us. But I'll put on a hall call, if you'll excuse me. I think we're gonna... Yes, please! Again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U77	Is there a microphone in there? Any word?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U78	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U79	Now, if you follow the line, I was the first in line. My proposal to the Bureau is to establish a procedure for remote sittings only if the government has declared an emergency situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U80	Let us take note of this and discuss it. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U81	Ladies and gentlemen, I call for calmness in the sense that city councils also had problems voting for the time being. Those things got in place, we got used to it. And finally, it is possible to develop a special mechanism, so let's learn the link at a lower level, so that people who are late or not to vote will document it. The identification procedure can be developed and they can add to the protocol a vote which was proven to be late for technical reasons. So I suggest we move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U82	Yeah, we did two tests where all these things were tried. But now we have a real vote and real problems, and I think it is very good that we map out these problems in this way. Then we can discuss all of this on the board. Would Mr Pohlak like another word?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U83	I'm just pointing out that I informed you that Mrs. Kingo's computer kicked her out of the hearing. I didn't say anything about voting. It was simply information that this transfer was also disrupted in our group. I don't have any information right now that Kert Kingo couldn't vote, but I informed him he dropped out of the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U84	Now I have already called off the vote and put back to work the hall call. Let us vote it again. Once again, I shall put draft 122 to the vote. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U85	85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. This is now the final result. The bill has been passed as a law. Dear friends, thank you all for your active participation in our first teleworking session. All relevant comments will be taken into account in the future process, while the Governing Board will develop better rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U86	We have a visitor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U87	Greetings! Greetings! You can clap! [[Let's hear it.]] Hello, hello, hello! All right! There's something in the bag as usual this time too. It's a long-term hearing. And now, very nice, congratulations first. In my opinion, it has never been so much before that one law has been passed three times. It's a kind of practice. Did the result always differ, Siim? You didn't?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U88	I don't know, I wasn't interested. It's important that it's accepted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U89	It's important, yeah. At all, I was going to congratulate the Riigikogu on this year's work, but you would have understood that I did not mean it. But what's exciting to bring out? At present, the Riigikogu is able to practice what tens of thousands of schoolchildren and teachers do every day. It was an exciting first long-distance hearing. And it is very nice to see that the Estonians' good practice does not trust complex technical things and came to see for themselves how the remote hearing is conducted. It's like, well, definitely going. Only, I see, from the Reform Party, Madis is still the one who doesn't trust the technology a little bit. But we welcome all good journalists and all people throughout Estonia! And now that you have your masks on, you can also feel what Santa usually feels all his life. And I can tell you that breathing through a mask is much easier than breathing through a beard. But for a very, very long time, I would like to talk about what you have done this year. But I believe that we can do this on a case by case basis for each of the honourable groups. Therefore, do you agree that I will begin with the opening of the gift bag? Shall we put it to a vote? At the same time, there will be so many procedural questions from Kalle that we may not even get to the opening of the bag at all. All right, here we go! I take out the first gift and it's one of my favorite gifts, I made it myself and for a very long time. And it's here now! You can see what's in the bag for the party, can't you? It's for the Centre Party, so please, come on, come on, come on, come on! I was waiting for good Mr Vasilyev to help his group this time too. You want to come to the remote? Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U90	Thank you, Santa! I'll come to the remote, then those who are a little further away will hear. But, Santa, tell me, how are you at the North Pole with the corona?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U91	Because the North Pole has few people, only Santa Claus, elves, elves, two leeches, ape...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U92	What about Christmas food?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U93	There's a Christmas party missing right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U94	Yeah, that's a delicate question today, isn't it, without adopting implementing acts? Let's not talk about it! But your beard is awesome. I know there are fake Santa Claus, and they have this kind of Chinese dust beard, it needs to be changed every hour. You still have a decent FFP3 class.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U95	On-on, yeah, it's hard to breathe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U96	That's right. But I have a suggestion for you: it needs to be disinfected with alcohol every night.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U97	It's done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U98	Right! That's what the health department tells you to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U99	I think just before I came in the door, I used the whole thing. I had ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U100	Yeah, we prefer to take the buffet, though, because it's more pleasant with the smell. But I'd like to read a poem. May I?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U101	Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U102	Okay. Poetry from the Central Party faction. Riding Santa's sleighs-reed / across the border along a long road, / on the border got an old stick up his nose so he could safely go to us. If you hadn't passed the test, you would have gone to border arrest, / 10 days quarantined, / verses, gifts in customs stuck. We wouldn't have gotten to us on Christmas, / only for Russian Christmas, / after all we already had the holidays, /dancing-tralls are forbidden. But fortunately you're here, / hear our report, / we won't have three readings/before opening the gift bag. / The year brought the coronal experience, / masks masked our nature, / held the political distance / so that the virus would not penetrate our fortress. It was the year of the exchange of hats, / the hat wanted to save from fire, / the hat lifted and swore, / eventually the Riigikogu was still beached. / We played well with the drones, / the ministers were crucified, / although the schoolboy's wisdom says, / the result of the operation is not dependent on it. / Mailis now found out overnight about the driver's job. / Aab, who is a school pad from the profession, / the way of education goes to tip-kill. / Anneli became minister, / well, we now know / what place Tsolgo is in Estonia. / A small village, in Virumaa they are found, / Jaak has hidden Chinese masks there. But Echo doesn't go to dance yet, / we have few bachelors left here, / some can't get word from the remote, / sails from there to the beach. / The referendum is halfway through, / but they could be done more and more. It's cool to let people tell you who somebody's gonna let in bed. Dear folks, tell us, okay, whether football is better or is sex. Fortunately, it was decided that football, / now we have a soccer ball. It'd be different, then oh you spank, / Playboy should be a designer. Where is Muhammad and where is the mountain? The farmer from Ukraine saw a distance away. He called to work, it couldn't come, / the farmer gave up, it's okay if now the pickers aren't allowed here, / the berries must be taken to Kiev. / The work was done in a pretty good quantity / during the year we have here in the Riigikogu, / legislation totals a good number, / around 120. / In February the grey passports were repeated, / in March the emergency situation was taken, / then in April, the korona demanded money, / with additional budget we got down, / in June the decision was taken on how the teleworking organisation was held, / in July we did not go to the Palmis Islands, / the voters there have not seen, / the voters stayed on the beach, / the next meeting awaited. In the summer to be the ghosts seen on Toompea, / exceptionally we got together / discussing extraordinary things / so that there would be no extraordinary trouble. / Vodka month, October there was a fuss, / the pin pillar was demolished, / then in November the holidays were decided, / the new celebrations were greeted, / the grandchildren, the grandparents / who received their flag days from us. Now December locked the year, / we managed to put the budget together. Imre brought us love and shine, but Tavi sneaked away. / Christmas was already soon in the house, / Lotman shaved yet, / that there would not be an empty excess blaze, / if we didn't recognize the christmas man, / although we all know that these two / have one very important difference: / Santa Claus firmly believes that / Lotman exists for real. / The year has now gone again, / Santa Claus has gone away too / and if something went bad / in the new year we will do again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U103	All right. [[Let's hear it.]] Look, you can really hand it over. And actually, there's a review now. Viktor can give anyone, including foreign journalists, an overview of the year in the Riigikogu. I have a gift here for the Centre Party. Often I have seen a look at the distance of the Prime Minister when there is another urge and a storm and a riot going around because of my beloved coalition associates. There will be more of these situations next year, and there will be such a fine gift that you can give to the Prime Minister. It is such a much needed tool for meditation, no when it gets difficult. (Singing over the windbell. Viktor Vassilyev sings along.) I'll hand it over! And here's the mandalade drawing book for the whole year. I'm gonna put it in this bag with the box. And I would also like to wish the entire Environment Group what it is. You're about halfway there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U104	Yeah, next year, I'm gonna do a report on what we've been doing on the mandales.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U105	Good for you! Thank you, Viktor! Take care! Okay, we can applaud. [[Let's hear it.]] And the next gift, it's gonna be nice to send us now, this... Okay. What have I got here? It says SDE. Well, then, good guesses, you've got the line, the eloquence board the same way. I'm keeping the gift in my arm right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U106	Good Santa Claus! Glad to see you're still in red. We, too, have written you a poem that sums up this year, but also looks to the future. But unlike a good colleague from Viktor, we do much shorter and more concretely. Come here, come here, friends! I'll start, and then the good Riina and Indrek will continue. So, good Santa! At the Riigikogu the year again Bye, Christmas, hurrah! It happened a lot with weight, All in the city, all in the land, reminds me of a woman of history. First, the evil virus forced limit our freedom to all. The sitting in the Teams was jammed, The masked envoy was peeking around, State money hit minus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U107	But all this Riigikogu quietly gathered himself again. Home had to be runny, to perform its own particular duty, People's health is in danger. The slingshots were very industrious. held the rails of the opposite camp, The government often hit us. Some guy in there was always beating. Help and out of luck the people admitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U108	In a new year with full momentum the argument continues with a long story. There's a lot of stress from marriage. The Riigikogu falls into a coma. Let's be lucky for everyone. The Estonian people chose us, so we can find the right way. Christmas will show them. "Keep everyone safe! " It's a beautiful find. It's the holidays, man! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U109	Yeah, yeah! Thank you, thank you, thank you. Of course, much has been discussed about what this marriage must be: between a man and a woman or between a woman and a man. I've seen that the most permanent thing is the alliance between man and boat. Amen! This is the kind of thing I see very clearly in the north. The man and the boat have essentially grown together, and the man escapes to the boat at every free moment, if he has any chance. I just got a little chat... But a beautiful poem! From a gift, too. I'm coming this way. Sods, you've always had a lot of good voters who are always waiting for a clearer story or message to come. And here's the little "Alias" gift to explain verbally all the good things you're really thinking of doing. Perhaps, then, in simple words, you can tell other people that. Here you go! And some times, I get the feeling that life is bubbling and storming around you. But you watch the flow of time through the universe all the time. It's pretty! There's a little sand bell inside, so you can compare which one's faster. But next year, a little something like that, spring in and hop! Bag too, here you go! Let's grab the bull by the horns! I'll turn the glass around. And let's get another one right here. Look, I had a dream last year. I wanted to see Mart in the Riigikogu. That dream I had last year. But I didn't see him! This year, you'll see, just like the other, happy mood. I would ask the EKRE Group here. Your present is on the table. You're both coming so nice! I'm getting out of this remote control right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U110	That's because it's safer that way. There's gotta be somewhere to hold on all the time. But I would, of course, start by punching Santa in the nose. Santa's got the mask wrong, the nose's out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U111	So? It moves on me all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U112	But Santa wants to know what we're doing here, right? (Santa: "What are you doing here? ") We are here to give the people a voice back in politics. It has become very weak as a result of the determined action of previous governments, this public involvement in the governance of the state. And that's why we've come up with the idea of having referendums. We're not gonna get Santa into bed like he was scared here in the meantime. But we have a very big problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U113	One trouble after another!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U114	There's a very big problem with Santa Claus. And that is why we are about to hold a referendum with Moonika. And I say, "No."
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U115	And I say, "Yeah."
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U116	And since women are always right, you have to keep her word. Santa's gonna be written into the Constitution from now on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U117	But you can't get out of there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U118	You can't get out of there anymore. And you don't get to be a dandy either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U119	And elves are not taken away, the term is not extended.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U120	All right, all right! So Santa's in the Constitution. What's he gonna do there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U121	Santa's gonna come here every year. It's his constitutional duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U122	Virtually no.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U123	Virtually never! But I understand that, along with Santa Claus being in the Constitution, women's voice is finally on top. I get it. Men can vote any way they want. And I guess that's the thing about remote voting. There was talk of green men here, but in fact, there may be a woman standing around the corner with a porcupine, who is still very clear... Well, it's not a security threat, but rather a guarantee of independence. A woman with pudrunuia is a guarantee of independence. There you go! But I have a gift for you. I was thinking about what a nice gift to give to the EKRE. I've been looking at your chores all year, this calm, thoughtful, thoughtful, maybe a little bit, maybe not even a saying of the season. There was nothing remarkable or very bad. Such a nice calm medium. That is why all the members of the group would have such fine grey wool socks that symbolize peace and perhaps a little bit of the sun. If so, a little. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U124	This season was perhaps a little colourless, but we have decided to be as benevolent as possible and to keep our coalition partners' nerves as far as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U125	I could see that. I could really see that. Thank you very much. Good luck, good luck, good luck, good luck. Because sometimes it feels like even Jüri Ratas has only two last nerves left. But he can raise them overnight. So... Who do we have here? We have plenty of great gifts here. The Reform Party. Good representative Madis, let's wait! The bag is here, full of things. The speaker's yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U126	Today we follow the principle that there is also a soldier on the field. And Santa's little poetry lines. Dear Santa Claus! In the new much will change, For the last time, verses will be heard in your ears today. New winds in the new year. Let's have a referendum. Do you need a Christmas poetry? We're getting presents anyway, right? There are other questions that can be put to the referendum. Can you wear Crocks or give me a kiss? We can also ask you this, Should I be taking care of the room, who can love whom, Who can drive a sleigh. With a referendum, we can do it. Christmas every month. No, don't get so out of your face! He listens to orders and keeps his mouth shut! We can vote on anything, depends only on fantasy. In the eyes of the voters, you may It's falling like a sleeve! The Riigikogu races! A thorny journey for us! As the living classic said: It's a brain-dead company. Christmas man, you know, Maybe some poem sucks. Let's hope so soon. This isn't hate speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U127	Thank you. All right! At least they clapping in their homes! Voters... [[Let's hear it.]] But a little commentary gifts too. Often, the Reform Party has, not often, but all the time, that it is not going to get away with it. In case of an outbreak, this is a nice tool that can eliminate the blockages and reduce the strain. Is that okay? (Milling: "Very good! ") I saw the other... But then... The Reform Party always lacks a voice. I have a small book with a CD with the most beautiful bird sounds in Estonia. For example, if it is important to vote on the law, two votes are missing, you can choose, for example, a swallowtail and a bird from the grove and add to it. And maybe with procedural questions, you can do it nicely. So what do I want? Although some situations seem awful or have been there for a long time, this is not the end. It's gonna work out! [[Someone's saying it's gonna get worse.]] Yeah, it's gonna get worse! Good luck, everybody! Well, you can applaud. Because there is one gift left and this is, of course, for the board. It'd be good to pass it on, too, Siim. Henn was here too, it's gonna be... And I think there's a third term. Here they are, hanging in there all year long! So, you can also take a microphone, for example, from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U128	No, I'm coming to the remote. We've been a lot better this year than last year. Then we couldn't handle a bunch of poems, but now we've got a bunch of them. I brought the spy, the little Spy's school family, the kids there sent me. I'll read it out. It's beautiful. "Candlelight in the eyes, spruce in the rooms! Let this year's new one come proud, full of action and joy!"
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U129	There you go! It's possible! [[Let's hear it.]] But what do we have here? (Siim Kallas: "There are still performers here. ") Oh, I thought that... Here you go! Could be the remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U130	The remote doesn't sound good. If it works, I'll read it here. But first of all, this poem has nothing to do with today. All of these people, 80-100 people, who always comment well on all my performances and articles, should calm down, it doesn't offend anyone. It's been a long time. It sounds like this: "The spirit, wearing once a triumph and a rich robe, Fried a fat bull. But now? But now? The Gang Ends in Dumbness and wreath is wreath. But, buddy, you know, Now the spirit is a rod and cranks the bull." This was the reality of bourgeois Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U131	And Helir's just happy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U132	I'm a happy nationalist. I read the poem last year, and it was my own creation, but it was my first attempt. But I also remember a poem that I think is dedicated to the Riigikogu and the members of the Riigikogu. It sounds something like this: "We hope better every day, that hope always deceives us. We wait for the blissful hours, This expectation will leave us without any help. Yeah, from the cradle to the grave. brings a glow of self-deception. Ah! The heart would freeze to the iron, it would be lost, too." The author of this poem is the man who once saw the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U133	Let's hear it! This is such a very big improvement by the board of directors in the poetic plan. But I'll be able to show you a little gift. There's a baby monitor for remote work here, the first one we've got here. I'm gonna borrow this table from here for a second. I don't even know how to open that box... Yes, I did! There's a lot of nice stuff in here. For example, it is precisely designed for three... Half the stuff's gone... Maybe they're in that bag. Oh, yes, it is! Well, it's such a nice camera with legs. So this goes to the ambassador. You guys can watch. The three of you can connect. Here's a screen so you can watch, it goes here, and as soon as the ambassador...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U134	Is this screen still coming to the chairman's office?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U135	Well, I guess the chairman's office will have this. Henn knows exactly where it's supposed to go. And he's gonna react to the ambassador's tantrums. Then it starts asking like that, then it comes up with a picture, a very good resolution, and a very precise job. Now I'm gonna do the first test, I'm gonna give it to you, Henn. Can you put it back together? But according to time, you'd have a clear view of what's going on all the time. Each ambassador's home will be like this, and it will also rule out the possibility that there will be a gunman or an envoy with a porcupine bat. Good luck, board, and strength to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U136	Thank you, Santa!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U137	Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah... Now one group has wondered whether they will really be forgotten this year. Not at all! So, good Fatherland, your gift has been hidden here a long time ago. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U138	Good Riigikogu! I am before you with the second reading of the Christmas verse of Aapo Ilves. The first reading took place on 19 December 2019. As the text is not long, I would like to reiterate it to Santa's delight so that we can go to the amendments that were tabled in the special committee convened by the speaker. The text itself reads as follows: "Old poetry ran, there was a sleighway. Santa's patriot is in front of you today. Thanks, that's not gonna happen, that's enough. Read out loud in the Riigikogu: By making laws and rhymes, let us strive to create this way, so there's not a thing in the morning paper." The special committee met on 27 March and 23 November. Since there was a known emergency first and the pandemic continued in November, meetings naturally took place through Teams. For the sake of quality, most had turned off their image, so I really have no idea who was on the other side, but the debate was passionate. I'll be brief. The first ambassador asked for the word "santa" not to emphasise the word "old," rather to replace it: to replace the word "old" with the word "man," and, if possible, to "heteroman" to get this shit off the table once. So, "you've got a Christmas theater in front of you, patriotic." He added that this "patriot" wouldn't bother him, it could stay there at the end. The other envoy said that he was also disturbed by the word "old," not for the same reasons that the previous speaker spoke about. Rather, the word is a bit of an insult to him. Man has lived his life, raised his children, been socially active, paid tax on the state, and why we now call him old. His suggestion was that, if possible, the word "old" should be printed considerably less. Something like the additions to bank contracts, that if the main text is in scrift 14 to 16, the "old" could be in scrift 2.5 or 3. And when you report that poem, the word "old" is either just to eat or to breathe in. According to what he heard, he also showed it: "It's old in front of you," isn't it? [[Takes a deep breath.]] And speaking as a microphone, turn your head to the left or to the right of the word, in accordance with your own political orientation, so that the word is not heard. The third envoy then proposed to delete "santa" at all and put "right side" in that "right front is patriotic" and also told two good stories. One was in English for how to name right-wing English, of whom only the right-hand side is working, and they are all right. And the other story was about Laari's first government. One envoy said that, while it was for translation, perhaps it would be possible to translate the whole text into at least part of the Russian language. To his shame, the man standing here tried to do so. It sounded something like this: "The old poetry run was, was the sleigh tea... ": "Bõli drevnije vremena, kogda v estonskom poezii bõli tolko slova kak sain and zanyatije, regi.... " An envoy said it would be enough, and it took ten minutes to recess. After that, he came back with 50,000 amendments, which we all discussed. And the meeting continued smoothly on 23 November. On this point, one of the ambassadors said that he had listened to it here enough, beautiful words, but agile and barren action At that, one envoy told two fun stories, one from "the seventeen spring moments" and the other from Laar's other government. Then, suddenly, an ambassador came on the air talking about the tobacco law. First he showed one little thing, then the bigger thing, he came in with a picture, by the way. Then one of the ambassadors suggested that it would be an excellent text to which the 194 SE, the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government, would be bound, and added that there would be nothing nicer than ending the poem. It would sound like this: "Through the snow, the church rises on the river. [[He's taking a deep breath at the same time.]] "And at the end there would be an exclamation, "Look, just what!" To that end, one envoy told two other good stories about the minister, ten commandments, and the other government of Laari. At this point, I would propose that the second reading be interrupted and that the second reading continue according to the speed of the Riigikogu proceedings on 16 December 2021 and that a committee be convened. The meetings of the Commission shall be notified. To propose amendments by 5.56 p.m. on 27 December. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U139	Yeah, yeah. Here it is. I think we're gonna give a hand to whoever's been able to follow the point to the end! Four people. Usually, there are about that many people who have the work of the Riigikogu along their bones. For the rest, he's just, yeah, such a big challenge. What did I want now... Give you a present! Here's the gift. It's one of the few things I've shared here today. And it's a decent mattress. You know what it's about, noble. It's because people have finally been given their money free, thanks to the Fatherland. This money can be put in this mattress, there are locks. There's all kinds of openings, there's these little bills in there, and you can finally take away all that vatin, and you have your savings properly inside the mattress. And here's a handy handle too: you go with that nice diplomat suitcase, everyone thinks you're carrying a mattress, but it's safe, it's full of your own money! You go to the store, you get out of here. So a common mattress for the whole group. Please! Good luck! All right. The Christmas man's bag is empty. All people who think they have already seen everything by the Riigikogu this year are wrong! 'Cause next year's gonna be a good year. So far, it's just been an introduction. Keep the flag high, because during difficult times the Riigikogu is one of the few amusement facilities that are open in Estonia! So, power-kick! And don't disappoint our hopes. Now, the way the bands are, if they make a beautiful record, the next one is expected to be even better, and that's the endless will. People don't get tired. Take care! Have a nice year! See you later! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-17_U140	The sitting is adjourned.
