ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the 5th working week of the IV session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U2	First of all, today we have the opportunity to hear the oath of the member of the Supreme Court, Urmas Volens. Please, Urmas Volens, here's the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U3	Hello! I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U4	Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Paragraph 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states: "Everything is equal before the law. No one shall be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, race, colour, gender, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status or other circumstances. Instigation of national, racial, religious or political hatred, violence and discrimination is prohibited and punishable by law. It is also prohibited and punishable by law to incite hatred, violence and discrimination between different levels of society. " The incitement of hatred and hatred to different groups of people is a direct violation of the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as the rule of law. Since victims are often vulnerable and do not make this statement themselves, they need to be protected. In fact, Estonia has accepted in the Council of the European Union that we criminalise hate speech. And we criminalize hate speech in such a way that if there is already an incitement to hatred towards a group of society, there must be no direct harm, but it is actually enough to incite hatred if it is punishable by criminal law. This is why the Reform Party Group will transfer the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U6	The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U7	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft of the amendment of the Prisoning Act and the related amendment of other laws (transfer of the duties of the Detention House). The Government of the Republic is represented by Raivo Aeg, Minister of Justice, when this bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U8	Thank you! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides how to deal with them in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. And now we're conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U9	There are 97 members of the Riigikogu, missing 4. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 5th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U10	There are 95 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U11	We are going to the first item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. And as usual, the first is the presentation of the initiator or representative, 20 minutes, then the presentation of the representative of the commission. All members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask a total of two questions, which are one minute. First of all, I'd like to ask Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, to sit here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U12	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I come to you with a draft law amending the State Budget Act 2020, according to which the total amount of expenditure and revenue will not be changed. The draft law amending the National Budget Act 2020 is based on the State Budget Act. According to § 43 of the Act, the Government of the Republic may initiate a draft amending the State Budget Act no later than two months before the end of the financial year, without changing the total amount of expenditure. Given that the National Budget Act 2020 has been drafted last autumn and that some funding needs have changed, it is appropriate to initiate a budget change in order to achieve the objectives set by public authorities more effectively. In making this proposal, we have been guided by the desire to make optimal and targeted use of public money, if necessary by reprioritising activities. Proposals for amending the National Budget Act 2020 were submitted to the Ministry of Finance in August. In total, the draft 85 reflects the amendment of EUR 19.3 million, increased costs by 0.2 million and also reduced investments by 0.2 million, i.e. without changing the total volume. This is less than 0.2% of the total amount of expenditure and investment in the 2020 state budget. No amendments were tabled by the Riigikogu, the Office of the President, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The amendments include internal changes in the areas of government based on specified activities, but also technical changes. In addition, changes have been made between areas of government where one public authority provides a service to another. For example, the Ministry of Justice raises money to cover ICT services and the Ministry of Finance's procurement and financial accounting service. To sum up, this is an annual routine process that does not make very significant changes in the state budget. I'm also going to count the most important amounts that we're moving to give you an overview. The Ministry of Defence's budget raises EUR 3.56 million for the supply of mobile cannons and for the development of the mobility and autonomous continuity of the strategic communications network. The Ministry of Social Affairs moves EUR 3.5 million back to the Government of the Republic's reserve, as the emergency support for children with special needs allocated with an additional budget of 10 million in the additional budget of 2020 has been significantly less than expected. The Ministry of Education and Research raises 0.87 million euros to the University of Tartu for the launch and implementation of a monitoring system based on waste water analysis SARS-CoV-2. The Ministry of Education and Research also raises 0.55 million euros for repairs and reconstruction of the main building and courtyard of the Estonian Academy of Sciences. The Ministry of Finance moves 0.25 million tax administrations into IT development projects. The Ministry of Defence raises the Ministry of Finance 0.15 million to ensure accounting services. All other changes are less than EUR 0.1 million. That concludes my brief introduction and, of course, I am happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U13	Thank you. Indeed, there are questions. Signe Riisalo first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U14	Thank you, manager. Minister! I come to this second amendment, EUR 3.5 million in the area of children and families, which was part of the additional budget of 10 million. This money was given to those children and their families who could not go to school during an emergency and who needed additional support because the local government services were not prepared to support their children's home. This concerns the two ministers of your coalition partner, the Minister for Education, Mrs Reps, and the Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Kiike. My question is: did two ministers fail, and what did they fail, that EUR 3.5 million did not actually arrive at the target group that really needs help and that the money would go back to the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U15	Thank you. Yes, as you yourself have already pointed out, with clear knowledge that this is a very specific group with a specific problem, we have allocated an additional budget of 10 million. But, as you yourself pointed out, this money should move through local governments. There are probably several places in this chain where there may have been obstacles or some sort of implementation problem. One was undoubtedly that there was a very short deadline for applying for this money. The second point pointed out by the Minister for Social Affairs is that in many places there were either no qualified or no corresponding support staff capable of delivering this money to those in need. So there have been a number of different aspects here, which ultimately led to an estimated increase in the amount, but in practice this money was not distributed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U16	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U17	Mr. Minister! I don't see any relief in the budget for welfare problems. While we are talking about new standards and local governments' advice and volunteering, the total cost of the sector is reduced by 4 million euros. At the same time, the problems of people who need help and those who are caring for themselves accumulate. 16 euros of extraordinary pension increases will be helpful for every elderly person, but I do not see this bill as concerns that if the home is no longer able to cope with it, the nursing home would be guaranteed for the pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U18	Thank you. Dear Heljo! I don't think you can see it from this bill because it's in the next draft. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yes, I believe I can certainly answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U19	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have a question about Annex 1 to the bill. It says here that investments have been made this year for EUR 158 million, including an additional budget. The coalition loves to talk about how there was some kind of investment in this extra budget. The question is, how can this amount be so small for six months? In a year's time, there will perhaps be 300-400 million more investment grants. What is the volume of investments this year? And I'm still asking why this volume is so weirdly small. How do you justify that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U21	Thank you. I don't have that extra number 1 right in front of me. It should be made clear whether these are financing transactions or additional investments in the supplementary budget itself. Well, in general terms, it is no secret that we have a problem that, even if we want to stimulate the economy with new investments, the planning process, the design process, the whole of this chain, is so clumsy and slow that real investment as soon as we want to do, cannot always be done. I can't really answer right now because I don't have that extra in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U22	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is not a very big secret that you were one of the spokespersons as a minister in order to prevent additional labour from entering Estonia. Agriculture, especially strawberry farming, was particularly hit. During the debate on this draft, did the Minister for Rural Affairs, Mr Aller, propose that a certain amount be allocated in order to alleviate the damage caused by the government's activities in the field of strawberry farming?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U24	Thank you. The Minister for Rural Affairs has made a number of proposals for additional funding both for this year's budget and for 2021's budget. And I am optimistic that some of them we will also be able to deal with either the reading of the 2021 budget or the government reserve allocations. But I dare say that, as far as I have spoken to Mr Aller, strawberry growers actually had a very good year this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U25	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U26	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I ask that we now make decisions in the Riigikogu regarding the budget. Yes, they must undoubtedly be substantive, they must make things better. In the explanatory memorandum on budgetary changes, the minimum amount we will decide on is EUR 344. Is it reasonable to raise such small sums back and forth at the level of the Riigikogu, or should we talk about bigger goals?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U27	I totally agree, it doesn't make sense. It makes no sense to move hundreds or even thousands of euros. We have, as I said in my introductory speech, all the remaining amounts that are being moved here, less than EUR 100000. And indeed, in the bill itself, we are moving sums, some of which are still very small, few hundred and thousands. In my opinion, this is not very rational in terms of the procedure of the law. But this is where the basic law of the budget and the basic law of the budget come into play, which allows some sums that are considerably higher to be moved peacefully with the signature of the minister. On the other hand, some other amounts, regardless of how small they are, are in the legal picture and, if they are in the legal picture, if we want to change them, we have to do so by amending the law. We have this intuition, but it's conceivable that we could change this basic law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U28	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U29	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! I read on page 11 of this explanatory memorandum that the Ministry of Finance is returning EUR 6250 to the Ministry of Social Affairs because the services of RTK under the administration of the Ministry of Finance have been abandoned in the processing of gambling tax subsidies. When this topic was raised on your initiative in February this year, you called for the reimbursement of illegal subsidies, for the supervision of the service and so on. Since then, it's been pretty quiet, the Ministry of Social Affairs has abandoned your administrative service on this matter. Could you enlighten the Riigikogu whether your will was left behind in this matter and, for example, the LGBT association and other organisations have lost money, which I think would be regrettable, or did you fall short of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U30	You followed this very closely for EUR 6 000. I'm not sure the subject has gone very quietly. I recall that in the summer we had a pretty serious debate with the Minister for Social Affairs on this subject. We come back to the fact that, interestingly, we have to move some EUR 6 000 in the state budget with the will of the legislator, but hundreds of thousands of euros of taxpayers' money can be moved by the Minister with his signature to whom he wants, and even if the law does not allow it, it will come out. And I, as long as it was under my signature, wouldn't allow the money to be paid out illegally. There was a small manoeuvring: the Minister of Social Affairs kept moving this money and decided to pay it out this year. I was promised it wasn't gambling tax money. So that's where we are. But the Ministry of Social Affairs is known to have a lot of different programs and projects from which to pay money, even if it is not gambling tax money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U31	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U32	Good President! Evgeny practically got to ask me my question. I had the same thing on my mind. I also noticed that not only in February, but also in August there was such a way of saying, a yacht on Tanel Kiige's head. We were talking about Tanel Kiik and the Ministry of Social Affairs breaking the law. Since I don't really count this violation of the law amending the state budget law, except for this little 6,000 euros here and there, I wanted to ask you for a clarification as to whether Tanel Kiik is breaking the law or not breaking the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U33	The answer is: According to the National Audit Office, it infringes, I think it does. Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U34	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, My last question was not complicated at all. This is your own bill, page 12 is an appendix. You sent it here, you put it here. This has nothing to do with a financial transaction. Here's the investment. Investments have been made in half a year, i.e. a core budget plus an additional budget of EUR 158 million. I asked why the amount was so weirdly small. But I'm going to ask my second question. This is a more familiar subject for you; I have asked for it repeatedly both in Question Time and in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. According to the forecast, EUR 2.86 billion, which is already a higher figure, is the loan money to be mobilised this year. As the economic downturn has turned out to be less severe, the tax revenue is much better and has been better since the forecast, even compared to the forecast, is this EUR 2.86 billion of drawn-up loan money still valid today? Or is it lower or higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U36	Thank you. The investments you are talking about, I think, are essentially those investments that we made through local authorities, including road construction. And I don't think it's a little money, but okay. The amount of the loan is, yes, the amount of the loan is exactly as high as it is. This year, the Estonian state has taken loans in several stages and with several different instruments, has taken short-term Treasury money from the Nordic Investment Bank, has made a bond issue. So, yes, we have had these various borrowings this year in several stages and with several different deadlines. And we're forecasting a year isn't over yet, that roughly 2 billion of this money will be needed by the end of this year. This means that, more or less at the point where we were liquidity at the beginning of the year, we will also have liquidity at the end of the year. Yeah, that's how he's worn out. In fact, a large part of this money, I would point out, has gone into financing transactions such as KredEx or MES. This loan also includes our business support measures, which we do in the form of financing transactions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U37	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U38	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm in charge of the Ministry of Education and Research. And here is the amendment that the general education programme will be reduced by EUR 870000, which will be increased to the R &amp; D &amp; I strategy programme for launching the SARS-Cov-2 pre-warning monitoring system based on waste water analysis to the University of Tartu. Very good, basically a good idea, because the study of waste water has provided considerable scientific data to understand the spread of the pandemic. But since this money is taken from the general education programme and it is not a few hundred euros, I ask what is missing in general education for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U39	Thank you. Let me remind you again, or I would like to point out that this was the programme that we promoted with the extra budget, with the extra money. This was the money that we put into supporting private schools and kindergartens through an additional budget. But that money didn't come in handy. The amount calculated in this supplementary budget, which was 15 million, if I remember correctly right now, was not so much used up. We've seen that this money can do a corona sewage survey, and we'll reroute it there. So there was nothing left to do. It is actually an extra money, it is also an additional money from an additional budget, which was not fully used up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U40	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U41	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! In answering Mr Jevgen's question, you expressed your surprise that, indeed, in addition to thousands of euros, even hundreds of thousands of euros can be distributed to NGOs with the signature of the Minister. I'm amazed that millions, even three million, can actually be distributed with the signature of the minister. But I'm not asking about it. Instead, I ask about EUR 3.5 million, which will be transferred from the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs to the reserve of the Government of the Republic instead of paying exceptional support to the parents of children with special needs. I know why it's being done, what the scheme is behind it, but for me, it's amazing how the social welfare funds, the resources for children with special needs, are always left in the budget. These are the places where there is a balance that can be paid elsewhere to cover other costs. How do you look at this, should we not still be able to channel funds for children with special needs and their parents towards the costs for which it is intended and not to cover other extraordinary costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U42	Thank you. Yeah, I agree that there's, I don't know, a pattern or that it's very common. There may be different reasons, perhaps the Minister of Social Affairs is a fierce lobbyist and speaks out of the government for more money and faster and more than bureaucracy can bring people. How does this amount come into being? First of all, there is a theoretical calculation: it looks at the amount of support provided by law and how many people who go under this law will then be multiplied and are in order. The fact that money does not actually reach the people who are entitled to it is a problem. This problem, of course, is more complicated than just that somebody left their job unfinished somewhere. As I said in answer to the first question, there is a division of labour here. The distribution of this money in local governments often takes place on a very large scale. There are problems with finding support staff or their level. The problem here is that people who actually have some kind of social benefits are not even aware that they are entitled to benefits. This concern is multi-layered. It is, of course, the work of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the local authorities that needs to be done to ensure that the money that is provided by law and which, so-called download, we are able to calculate, still goes as far as possible to those in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U43	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I was urged to ask you the answer to your last question. Did I understand correctly that the Minister for Rural Affairs has told you that since strawberry cultivation had such good crops, it is very wrong for strawberry growers to expect compensation from a certain state for some kind of malicious action by the government? Let me get this straight, or was that your arbitrary interpretation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U45	I'm not sure you got it right, because your question has been described as a government that has been malicious. The government has not been malicious. The Estonian government did not create the Coronal Crisis. But yes, I don't see right now that strawberry growers have any compensation to expect this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U46	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U47	Thank you. I was inspired by Riina's question and asked about this corrupt law firm's 3 million-dollar contract. If I remember correctly, there's some kind of money that the Minister of Finance has been given to cover it from the reserve of the Government of the Republic. Well, sometimes it's like, if you need to finance something quickly, you can use the reserve. Normally, a budget change will come up and it will be put into the budget nicely, because it is true that the reserve is intended for unforeseen costs under the regulation, but this money is not an unforeseen cost. This is something that is being prepared for six months, and, as we know, in your case, the preparations for this corrupt agreement have lasted even more than a year. The first question is why this does not reflect the way this is an unforeseen cost. And the second, so that I do not have to ask the next item: how much money next year's budget will be planned to cover the same corrupt agreement next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U48	Mr. Ossinovski! It is not nice for a member of the Riigikogu to deal with slander. There hasn't been any corruption anywhere. No one has yet been able to explain what corruption is all about. That's slander. I suggest not slander. And legal advice is usually an unforeseen cost. But we're going to make this reserve all sorts of interesting unforeseen costs, such as buildings that have been in the same state for years and years and then it's decided that now we're going to build them or repair them. We make all kinds of decisions. In essence, the use of the government reserve is still a discretionary decision of the government. That's right. And there's no need to worry about next year's money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U49	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U50	Thank you. I heard you say you think Tanel Rock is breaking the law. But you signed it. I don't remember any of the signatures from my term of office where I've found any violation of the law, and I accept that. I've always asked for the opinion of experts and accepted when they say the law is fulfilled. Why do you accept the violation of the law and admit it nicely from the Riigikogu's remote control? What do you think you're doing that for?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U51	Thank you. Something's been misunderstood. I signed a document that stopped these payments. I signed a document that stopped these payments. And that's why I stopped breaking the law. So in that sense, I don't even know which signature we're talking about. I drew attention to the fact that this budget line, the revenue from this budget, cannot make these payments. That's it. I didn't agree to this money being paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U52	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U53	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, It is customary for private operators to carry out two thirds of their time in terms of revenue and a third of their costs. As a former entrepreneur, you are now here at the Riigikogu Board and only deal with expenses. How have the revenues for 2020 been? Would it not have been possible to take these revenues as a source of cover for the planned costs, but it was essential to take this money from a fund for children with special needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U54	Thank you. The essence of this bill is that we are raising money, changing the various costs. Some [costs] were not incurred. There was something else you could do for the ones you didn't do. The ministries have made proposals for this. Some money moves between ministries once the ministries have agreed to it. So this is it, yes, the expense document. Earnings-- to answer the question of how the revenue is well, much better than we thought in spring. In terms of revenue, we thought that we were going to have a reduction of around EUR 800 million in tax receipts, in fact we see that this amount is about half as low. There's a little time until the end of the year, and that depends on other factors here, too, but basically we think that the reduction is even less than 400 million. But I've already explained twice or three times what the problem with this disability benefit was. It's not fair to make me guilty that the money didn't get to the kids.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U55	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U56	Thanks again! Minister, thank you very much. I will ask a simple technical question as a result of the previous answers, as well as my colleague Annely Akkermann's question. We are now raising the amounts that came from an additional budget during the crisis and which have not been properly exploited. Will there be any additional budgets before the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U57	Thank you. No, we're not coming and we can't come, we're running out of time for this. But yes, indeed, 2020 is an unusual year in that sense, that we made the 2020 budget a year ago, and in April we made an additional budget. It is a document made twice, but it is the same thing as the 2020 budget. And the cash flows from these two documents together we are going to change with one more document here today. So no, no more change [will not be]. Of course, there may always be amendments from the Riigikogu, but there will be no amendments from the Ministry or Government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U58	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U59	Manager! Minister! Three times you've explained it or two, but you haven't explained it right. When you talk about supporters, specialists, services, you have completely misunderstood this 10 million. It was an in-cash support measure, and the service providers have nothing to do with it. So it was a pure mismanagement that the money didn't reach the target group. But I have another question. Like this 10 million, the sickness fund received EUR 213 million as an additional budgetary measure, of which less than half was spent during the emergency period. And it could be spent, as requested by the government and decided by the Riigikogu, only during an emergency. You've taken $3.5 million from the kids. But for more than 100 million, where's the money from the Health Insurance Fund, where's it coming from? Will it continue to be used in health care or elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U60	Thank you. Yes, in-cash, which had been given a very short application deadline and people's applications did not come by that time. I don't know, then ask the Minister for Social Affairs, or I don't know. I can't explain in detail where or how that money stopped. But in the case of the Health Insurance Fund, indeed, I personally am pleased that our initial, significantly more negative forecast of the additional costs of the Health Insurance Fund did not materialise. Realized about halfway, more or less halfway. And the money left isn't going away, but next year, when we get to the next item, you'll see that the state will pay the sickness fund an even greater amount of extra money, so that you don't run the health insurance fund with zero reserves. About EUR 140 million next year, we will give the sickness fund more money from the Treasury. We've got about 100 million left now, but next year, we're going to give even more money to the health insurance fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U61	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U62	Thank you. I'll just come back to the emergency support of the parents of children with special needs. When I read the explanatory memorandum, I can see that it says here: "The additional budget for 2020 was planned for grants of EUR 10 million, the need for which proved to be less than expected. " If I understand you correctly, in this Chamber, you are saying that there has been a lack of ability to make use of these subsidies, to pay out. One of these claims is wrong, is it what you have said on the remote, or what is written in the explanatory memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U63	A hardened liar, like I am, right? I've been talking to Tanel Kiige about this once, asking him where it was. More or less as he explained to me, I've passed it on. I looked at the documents later and realized that this [grant] really was application-based and fewer applications came. In fact, I think the expression that the need was smaller is essentially not very correct. I don't think people had any need for money. I think they did not have the notification or the opportunity to process these documents quickly and intelligibly. But I will say once again that the Minister responsible for the field can provide detailed explanations on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U64	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U65	Thank you very much. Minister, you said that this year was a good year for strawberry growers. At the same time, I have learned from the press that more than half of the crop was left in the field. This is because the government prohibited the use of additional labour or sent it out of the country. You also said that you know that strawberry growers will not receive any compensation from the government. I know there should be a debate on this in the Ministry of Rural Affairs on Thursday. What did you rely on when you claimed, in a specific way, that strawberry growers would not receive compensation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U66	I will first of all improve that during the corona crisis, the government extended the deadlines for the presence of migrant workers in Estonia. In this hall, a change of law was made. Perhaps we met the sector and helped them with migrant labour, and, as they agreed, that we would extend once and not more, in that time they would have to reorganize their work. So we helped, we helped them. And I really hope people in this hall don't believe in the media. It never pays off. But what is my argument based on? Yeah, let's just say I know this debate is coming up at the Ministry of Rural Affairs. I've been asking Arvo Aller for advance information about what the picture is, what he sees. The picture is, of course, different depending on the size of these manufacturers and the other specifics they have had. Of course, entrepreneurs who have suffered more losses, but the overall picture was very good for strawberry growers this year. I would say, then, that I cannot say in a specific way of speaking what the Minister for Rural Affairs said, but from what he said, I had the impression that there was no very good basis for damages or compensation. But even if the Minister of Rural Affairs comes with some sort of compensation story, it must also be approved by the Minister of Finance, and I do not think the Minister of Finance will approve it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U67	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U68	Thank you once again, Mr President of the Riigikogu. In particular, I do not agree that this document is a statement of expenditure. Here is such a line in the introduction that the Amending Act 2020 on the State Budget Act is structured on the basis of the National Budget Act 2020 and only the changing budgets for revenue, expenditure, investment and financing operations of the state budget are reflected. The increase in the revenue budget is marked with a plus and a minus sign. It's just that you haven't done any revenue here. The document does provide a frame for that. And when you said that taxes were actually EUR 4 million more than the spring forecast, whether it was necessary to take away the money from the parents of children with special needs, which, as you say, Minister Kiik did not use or did so in a way that the target group could not use it. Do you approve of punishing the Minister for not doing so?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U69	It's like there's not enough debate between us and the Swing! I should start scolding him here now. That money came with an extra budget, too. This money was money with a clear sign in the extra budget. If this money was not spent as was foreseen in the supplementary budget for various reasons, for whatever reason, then we cannot spend it anywhere else just as well. That's what we're doing here. We didn't take that money away from anyone, we missed it, it stopped or it didn't spend it. And I'd still say, of course, we also dealt with revenue. Investments were reduced by EUR 0.2 million and so much we made more revenue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U70	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U71	Thank you! Dear Martin Helme, You're saying you're moving these things around, back and forth. I understand the defense is very important to us, and I don't mind you buying more of these self-propelled tanks. But we know they've been ordered a lot more than the two or three tanks you're buying right now. Can't we just plan it so you can buy it all out next year and give the 3.5 million euros you're taking away from the kids... Or rather, let's just say that the measure was wrong, which is why the money is being taken away. I don't know what it was. Could it not have been put at least EUR 3.5 million in the tourism sector, which is currently smiling and asking for assistance at different levels? Wouldn't that have been much more support for them? Couldn't we have waited a few more months and bought these self-propelled tanks a little later, out of next year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U72	Thank you. They're self-propelled cannons, though. Ants was shaking his head. [[Laughing.]] I call for no confrontation between national defence and social protection, these are two different things, and both of them need to be dealt with. And I would point out that it is not at all that tourism has received nothing at all. In the additional budget, we also envisaged a number of support measures for tourism, quite a lot, for tens of millions of euros. There were EUR 25 + 10 million of direct payments, if I remember correctly, plus some other smaller subsidies and various loan measures that we launched. Of course, I am not arguing, it has not been enough to help this sector in the crisis. I won't argue with that. However, it may still have to be explained that if a budget has been allocated to the Ministry of Defence for a certain amount and if the Ministry of Defence wants to do its activities differently for this amount, it is very simple. If anyone, such as the Minister of Social Affairs or the Minister of Finance, wants to go and say that you have the money left over, give it to me, it's a lot harder to do, that's what ministers have to agree with each other. This is the political reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U73	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U74	Thank you. That last answer I received was very incomplete. I still understand that you consider the activities of Tanel Kiig to be both illegal and essentially wrong. You answered that you ended this illegal act. But please describe this situation! I understand that both in this budget and in the next budget, Tanel Kiki will continue to operate. And one way or another, you've approved it, whether it's every transfer now, I haven't said that. But have you taken away the money that he has used for a completely unacceptable purpose and legally wrong for you? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U75	Well, Jürgen, as former Minister of Finance, you should know that the Minister of Finance can't go and take away some of the ministry's money. Well, that would be great, but I can't. Can't take away the other department's money. You've given this money in this hall, the Ministry of Social Affairs budget is approved in this room. The budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs is half the total state budget, EUR 5 billion in 2021. Now, let me explain, I can't hold a debate here like this. Within this budget, they have, of course, bigger pieces of health and pension money there, a huge amount of different projects and programmes that they finance with a mandate from here. I cannot say that this is not the case, or I will not allow the money to be paid out. I can prevent money being paid out wrong in the sense of law if it is wrong in the sense of the state budget law or if the budget resources are used incorrectly in relation to the budget. And that's what I did. That's what I did, as far as I could, that's what I stopped. Tanel Kiik terminated his contract with the RTK, the State Support Services Centre, and led these projects to the other programmes of the Ministry of Social Affairs. In fact, I may disagree on content, but there is no violation here. If he has programs called, I don't know, equal rights or what all these minority programs are, he's been given money from this hall. The Gambling Tax Act clearly limits the amount of gambling tax on which it may be spent, but the programme money from the state budget is distributed by the Minister as he wishes. I don't like it, but at least it's not illegal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U76	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U77	Thank you. Now I don't understand what the Minister is trying to say. One minute he says he can't do it, and the other minute he says he doesn't make money. It does not give money to strawberry growers if, for example, it is decided that it should still be given. And then he says he can't take the money or put the money or do anything. Let's make it clear what the minister can do and what he doesn't want to do. Where is this arbitrary place where the minister has no decision-making position and where the government decides?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U78	It's not that complicated. The money that the Riigikogu has allocated has already been given away, I cannot take it away. But the new amounts that the Riigikogu has put at the disposal of the government, that is the government reserve, are decided by the government in a consensual manner. It's not complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U79	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U80	Thank you. Good waitress! I wouldn't debate one cost or another, let's say world-view admissibility or rationality. I ask how it has been that your own specific priorities have been met. In making this year's budget, you said that money has been found to start building four lines of roads with the help of the PPP. However, as far as I know, this plan never entered this year's budget. How's it been? Was one of the most important priorities of this year's budget supposed to be a topic on which there is a clear way of saying that this will definitely happen, from last year to take dozens of your quotes, really did not happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U81	But I didn't miss it. I didn't miss it at all! The end of Pärnu road, Libatse road section is currently in PPP procurement. We've been received, I may be mistaken for more than ten offers. There are different stages. First of all, the PPP consultant is, in essence, a legal consultant who is a national representative for the PPP contract and for the PPP builder. But this procurement is today so far as we have the offers, the offers are closed, and the winner is now being chosen. So I didn't cancel.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U82	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going here to the Ministry of Education and Research, and the question comes about this. From the school network programme, 0.55 million euros will be devoted to the repair and reconstruction of the Estonian Academy of Sciences' main building and courtyard. The question is this: why did this EUR 0,55 million remain unused in the school network programme? Which parts of Estonia missed the preparation of higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U84	That's a very detailed question, I can't answer. The school network program is huge, and it has very big money. Whether any of the tenders were delayed or some of the constructions got cheaper, I can't answer. But there's nothing unusual about this volume.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U85	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U86	Thank you. I ask about the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior: it provides for the transfer of EUR 35000 from the Ministry of Education and Research to the programme of children and families of the Ministry of the Interior in connection with, among other things, the transfer of activities related to new immigrants. What are the most important activities that the Ministry of the Interior will do with the better integration of new immigrants?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U87	Thank you. This is the responsibility of Riina Solman in the Ministry of the Interior. It is not about action, it is about moving people, it is about moving jobs. These are jobs and salaries that were moved from one ministry to another.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U88	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. And now I would like to ask the co-rapporteur of the speaker, Mr Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U89	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 12 October, the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed sending the draft law amending the State Budget Act of 2020. The draft was presented by the representative of the initiator, Minister of Finance Martin Helme. According to § 43 of the State Budget Act, the Government of the Republic may initiate a draft law amending the state budget no later than two months before the end of the financial year, without changing the total amount of expenditure. Given that the National Budget Act 2020 has been drafted last autumn and some funding needs have changed, it is appropriate to initiate a change in the state budget in order to achieve the objectives set by the public authorities more effectively. In total, the draft reflects 85 amendments. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to appoint a rapporteur on behalf of the Commission, to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Monday, 19 October and to propose that the first reading be terminated and to set seven working days for the amendments, i.e. 28 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U90	Good waitress, there are questions for you too. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U91	Thank you. As the summer economic forecast went through the slides, it became clear that this year's budget was already in huge disadvantages in terms of revenue in the first months of the year compared to what was expected in the budget. That was, I stress, before the special situation came up, after which the emergence of the minus is naturally understandable and understandable. Have you analysed what went wrong in making the budget, that the minus came to hundreds of millions of euros in the first few months, and what exactly was it motivated by?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U92	Thank you. To be honest, the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not analyse this issue in its proceedings on this draft law. But the number shouldn't be as big as you just said. It was a little smaller, but it stayed with 100 million. There were several reasons. One was the subject of excise duties on fuel, more was bought at the end of December than was expected in January and was also the subject of alcohol. But yes, the prognosis was [various]. In January-February, the actual receipts were less than expected according to the budget forecast.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U93	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U94	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I am asking you about a problem that you have told me several times that is being dealt with. In December last year, the Reform Party initiated an amendment to the National Broadcasting Act aimed at ensuring the availability of television programmes for people with hearing impairments. The Committee on Culture discussed this several times and many agreed very much, but then the reading was interrupted. There were a number of opinions, for example, that it needed extra money and that the coalition would come up with its better draft. Was there any mention of this problem in the Commission in relation to this point and also in relation to the next point in the state budget? Are you working on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U95	Thank you. This was not the case for a specific draft, but during the debate on next year's budget, it was on the table. As far as I know, the Ministry of Culture has these funds in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U96	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. The commission has proposed a draft... Yeah, right. We still have negotiations before we go to the new draft, and I will open them. Looks like Aivar Chef wants to... No, Aivar Chef's finished. There are no negotiating requests. Then there's no reason to open negotiations, we'll close them right here. Now I'm going to read what I left out. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 252. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 28 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U97	We will go to the next item on the agenda, which is very, very large. This is the first reading of the Bill 254 of the National Budget Act 2021 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme, to return to this chair as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U98	Dear Speaker of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will bring before you the state budget for 2021, which is operational for the second year in a row, and which normally gives substance to what the state is doing throughout the year. This shows the priorities of the government, the needs and opportunities of the state and our fiscal stance. This year has been special in all respects, as both the country's budgetary strategy and the process of drawing up the state budget had an impact on the coronal apandemia that broke out in the spring of 2020. As a result, the preparation of the country's budgetary strategy 2021 2024 was postponed to August. At the same time there was also the processing of the Amending Act of 2020 and the drafting of the current State Budget Act of 2021. At the same time as the national budget and the national budget strategy, the planning of the seven-year budgetary period of the European Union and the framing and linking of the recovery plan with the RES had to be carried out. All of this was a considerable challenge for the government. This is a substantial and concise work that the government has done in a very short time. I thank all coalition partners for their contributions. The economy of Estonia and other countries is in a situation where it is difficult to find precedent in history. Europe and other countries of the world have introduced exceptional restrictions to combat the virus in order to protect the lives and health of their people. The market economy is not accustomed to such radical disruptions in global supply chains, restrictions on movement for people and banning the production and consumption of certain services. In 2020, no country in the world will be able to escape the sharp recession. It must be stressed that our fiscal policy has brought us relatively well through the crisis. The economic downturn in the second quarter turned out to be smaller than feared, and the statistics published in the second half of the summer point to a relatively rapid recovery in economic activity. Estonia has done better in the crisis than many other countries, as we reacted forcefully and quickly in the spring, effectively buffering the initial blow to incomes and jobs, thus preventing an even greater recession. Our choice was to do everything we could to keep the labour market in operation and companies alive in times of crisis. To this end, we were prepared to spend the accumulated reserves and increase the public debt burden. The government's choice is to show solidarity as a society, help the weaker and share costs. However, the crisis is not yet over. We must continue with emergency policies and focus on how to create new growth opportunities in our economy. We must be able to create growth through new and smart investments. The future development of the economy is dictated by getting the virus under control, which today is not fully clear. This is why uncertainty for the future is extremely high. The principle that resources must be injected into the economy in difficult times must be taken into account. I will give you a brief overview of the current economic situation and the budgetary background that has been presented to you. The forecast of the Ministry of Finance is based on the assumption that the spread of the virus will be controlled over the next year. The forecast takes into account the deterioration of economic conditions during the autumn winter period. We predict an increase in unemployment to 10% at the end of this year and at the beginning of next year. The economic downturn will also remain deep in the second half of this year. Economic growth is recovering and the labour market situation is starting to improve and unemployment is only falling in the second quarter of next year, according to our forecast. With regard to 2021, the variability of the projections is high, largely depending on the duration of the constraints associated with the corona crisis and the moment of economic recovery, as well as the situation of the main economic partners. The forecasts published at the end of the summer and at the beginning of September took into account possible softer restrictions which do not lead to a significant setback in economic activity. As we can see, this situation has changed. But according to this forecast, next year's economic growth should be within the range of 4 to 5%, on the plus side. According to the base scenario forecast, Estonia's GDP will decrease by 5.5% this year and grow by 4.5% next year, remaining below the level of around 1% at the end of 2021. This scenario assumes that national policies will prevent a significant fall in demand in sectors not directly affected by the virus, i.e. the recession will not become broad-based. The fall in employees' income from salary income will be limited to 4% in 2020 due to wage compensation. Employment will continue to decline in 2021. Growth in average wages will stop and unemployment will rise to 8% as an annual average. Consumer prices in 2020 are in a 0.2% fall due to lower raw material prices, a fall in the tax on excise goods and a fall in the cost of services. Due to the exceptional situation, the exemption clause contained in the State Budget Act will be triggered and the state budget rules will not apply this year and next year. Next year, state budget spending will amount to almost EUR 13 billion and revenue will amount to nearly EUR 11 billion. The difference is due to the necessary investments in the recovery of economic growth, which is why the volume of expenditure exceeds the growth in revenue. The volume of government investment will be around EUR 9.9 billion next year, or 6.7% of GDP. Compared to 2020, investments will increase by more than EUR 400 million, mainly as a result of the rapid take-up of external funds. Tax revenue will increase to EUR 9.3 billion next year, this year to EUR 9 billion. The tax burden will fall to 32.7% of GDP next year, this year to 33.8%. After the fall in excise rates on 1 May, the price of diesel in Estonia is comparable to that of Lithuania and cheaper than in Latvia. As a result, refuelling has decreased significantly in Latvia and Lithuania. Diesel is an important production input at the price of many goods and services. Next year, the volume of cross-border purchases is forecast to decrease and account for 3.8% of the fuel sold in Estonia and fuel fuel fuel fuel fuel fuel fuel refueled by Estonian vehicles in Latvia and Lithuania. During the period of validity of the lower excise duty rate on diesel, the volume of border trade is projected to decrease and an additional 75 million litres is expected to be declared over two years, particularly at the expense of refueling in Latvia. During the last two years, the volume of border trade in alcohol in Estonia and Latvia has decreased by about 50%, thanks to the reduction of alcohol excise duty. Changes have also taken place at the northern border, and tourists' alcohol purchases were recovering to 2016 and 2017 before the pandemic came. About 11% of the legal sales of alcohol in Estonia this year in Latvia, it was about 25% in the intervening years. The volume of border trade will not change significantly next year. In Estonia, the increase in legal sales is significantly influenced by what is happening at the northern border, and as long as the corona crisis continues, port shops maintain low temperatures, as tourists do not move. It must be understood that large-scale mitigation measures and reduced tax revenues due to the crisis will lead to a budgetary deficit that will clearly decrease in the future. The structural deficit represents a considerable stimulus for the economy, helping to cushion the impact of the crisis. The general government budget is forecast to be 6.7% nominally in deficit next year and 6.6% structurally in GDP. We have decided to reduce the deficit in the coming years and move towards balance. The debt burden of Estonian government is increasing and will be 6.6 billion euros or 23.6% of GDP next year. At the same time, in 2021, we will still remain the European Union's lowest debt burden, and in a context of negative interest, we can afford to stimulate our economy at the most critical time in order to pay off our debts when better times return. The budget deficit and recovery measures created by the crisis are financed by bond issues and loans. The State Treasury is expected to make additional commitments of EUR 2.4 billion in loans and bonds in 2021. When drawing up the budget, we have been thinking that it would be feasible for us to maintain the state and that the government would commit itself to doing everything in its power to mitigate the impact of the crisis on both Estonian companies and people. As a result, next year we will save EUR 10 million on public authorities' economic costs, or 1.7% on management costs. The savings are channelled into IT development, which helps to keep Estonia on the e-state level and to provide better e-services. Our aim is to do more and more effectively with less money. Investment in information technology also makes it possible to make better use of people's workforce. It is important to know that the financial position of local government units is strong and that they have the capacity to provide their services in 2021 as well as to make planned investments. Their main revenues from tax revenues and public subsidies have not decreased as a result of the crisis; the rate of growth has simply slowed down. However, the various measures envisaged in the state budget will also help to increase the tax revenue of local authorities by EUR 15 million and local authorities will receive an additional EUR 20 million to improve the situation of transit routes. The Government of the Republic is based on the coalition agreement, which focuses on the growth of the Estonian economy, population, security and people's well-being. In order to achieve these objectives, the government has approved a work plan which finances the planned activities from the state budget. The state budget funds use public tax revenues to make investments, by the way, the European Union grants of more than EUR 1.4 billion have been planned for the state budget in 2021, plus quota funds, which are expected to be EUR 86,3 million in 2021, and own revenues generated by the economic activities of public authorities. The increase in 2021 will also be contributed by local authorities, where the election year will increase the volume of expenditure and investment traditionally made. Here are some of the key objectives and actions that the government is planning and funding for which the strategy has agreed. The biggest investments in the state budget are investments in road construction and repair, which amount to around EUR 200 million. There are also large investments in defence, including special equipment, buildings and land. A total of EUR 106 million is planned for this purpose. IT investments will come next year, to which EUR 36 million will be added next year. Around half of the investment money comes from external funds, about 80% of which is channelled into different sectors as investment grants. More extensive investment from external resources is linked to the organisation of the school network, the reconstruction of apartment buildings and the establishment of primary health centres, as well as transport. We want to create new growth through new and smart investments, for example, we will start pilot hydrogen technology projects next year with EUR 5 million. In the coming years, we plan to support the deployment of integrated hydrogen technology with a total of EUR 30 million. To this end, the competition will select hydrogen solutions ranging from production to consumption. To implement them, the state can be put on its shoulders. The aim is to achieve the deployment of hydrogen technology in public transport. In the future, given the results of these initial projects, such technologies can already be targeted for wider deployment. For the recovery of the economy, we plan to accelerate the implementation of the prepared public sector projects and to promote a wide range of investments. We will continue to offer public guarantees, loans, export insurance and risk capital to companies through KredEx. This is an opportunity to finance innovative and promising business ideas and projects. In total, we contribute 232 million euros to increasing Estonia's digital capability in the European Union's final and new budget period. In addition to the basic costs, it will be added next year in 2014‐2020. EUR 26,3 million from the 2006 funds for smart infrastructure development. Of the grants for the new EU budget period, EUR 206 million will be allocated to IT investments. Against the background of the Coronary crisis, we have decided that the state will take great steps to organise the hospital network and to renew the hospitals, thereby improving our readiness to respond to the crisis. This is also an important regional policy step, as many county hospitals receive a new quality. These investments are primarily carried out by means of euro money, thereby meeting one of our objectives to mobilise external funds as quickly as possible. This is how we support the economy at the same time, promote regional policy and also solve health problems. From the euro money for the current period, 30 million euros will go to clean up the hospital network and set up primary health centres, and 515 million euros will be invested in improving the availability and quality of healthcare from the next period. We are also preparing to ensure that the country is ready to help society quickly in a crisis situation. The Police and Border Guard Board is scheduled to acquire three new ambulance helicopters. In addition, we will pay particular attention to being prepared to deal with the COVID crisis on several levels. Overall, EUR 545 million will be invested in health care in the coming years. We will continue to invest in supporting the economy and the construction of roads and thereby in the living environment. In order to better integrate Estonia into one, we have decided to significantly stimulate the road construction market and launch additional construction projects that will already be carried out in 2021. We will continue the PPP pilot project to prepare the construction of the Libatse-Nurme road section in the direction of Pärnu, and we will also continue the construction of the four-line road in Tartu. In order to finance R &amp; D from the government budget, we will allocate an additional amount of EUR 56 million. I am pleased to say that next year we will first reach 1% of GDP, or 280 million euros, in Estonia's funding for research and development. We also value teachers; their wage growth in Estonia has been one of the fastest in comparison with other OECD countries. The total wage of teachers is €388 million. This will make it possible to keep teachers' average wage at EUR 1540. A total of 8 million euros has been planned to support students with different mother tongues in Estonian. Defence costs are planned at EUR 645.4 million, which represents 2.29% of the projected GDP. The state strengthens its military capability through large-scale supply procurement. In addition to the capabilities planned in the National Defence Development Plan, a long-distance coastal defence system is acquired, which allows to influence potential opponents across the Estonian coast. We also keep our elderly. Although the wage freeze caused by the economic crisis and the fall in consumer prices do not foresee an indexed increase in pensions, the government decided to help reduce the difference between pensions and average wages. The average increase in old-age pension is over 20 euros next year. The average old-age pension reaches 544 euros. In order to ensure the country's good reputation and credibility, the government has also made prevention of money laundering an important priority. In order to prevent and prevent money laundering more effectively, the Financial Intelligence Unit will be transformed into a separate and independent body from the structure of the Police and Border Guard Board, which will enter the Ministry of Finance's administration. In order to increase the financing of the FIU and the team, EUR 3 million per year is foreseen in the coming years. A strategic analysis function will also be established within the Bureau. I would like to thank the staff of the Ministry of Finance, the other ministries and all our officials very warmly for their hard work in drawing up this budget and budget strategy. I also sincerely recognise the coalition partners from the Estonian Central Party, the Fatherland Party and my home party. Dear members of the Riigikogu, you will have the budget for next year. I call on you to support this budget. Of course, I am happy to answer your questions as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U99	Thank you. There really are a lot of questions. Let me remind you that each member of the Riigikogu can ask two questions for 1 minute. First, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U100	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, I do not think I am exaggerating when I say that your budget will set the way for Estonia to be a poor debtor country in the future. But I have a question. You came out a long time ago with a promise to build the main roads quickly and on a large scale through PPP projects. If we look at the budget plan for the next four years, there will be no large volume or rapid construction of four-line highways. Basically, it says the construction of existing sections and nodes. For new projects, new constructions, for example, will be worth €15 million next year. There are larger sections of Käre vere.Kärdla, the only larger section until 2024, is four kilometers. Why is this list so short? And what you told Taavi Kõivas before about the slippery section of the Pärnu highway, it's a consultant's procurement, if I'm not mistaken. In a year and a half you have reached the procurement of a consultant! It's the creation of appearance. I'm asking you this: haven't you gone too far with a promise to build roads on a fast and large scale, bluffing and telling fairy tales like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U101	Thank you. Aivar, you're still exaggerating when you say we're going to be a poor and indebted country. Still exaggerating. All countries in the world, not only European countries, but all countries in the world are currently borrowing money and spending in deficit to cope with the crisis and make their economies grow again. All countries in the world! I stress once again what I have said both in the Commission and in the public eye. Before the crisis, at the beginning of this year, Estonia was Europe's least-debted country, our debt was about 8.5%. The following two countries were Luxembourg and Bulgaria. I don't remember who had which one, but one had a debt burden of 22% and the other had a debt burden of 24%. Next year, Estonia's debt burden will be 23%, next year. This year it will be about 17%, at the end of this year. But by the time we reach the next country with the lowest debt in Europe, everyone else has gone far and far away. Next year, Estonia will also be the country with the lowest debt burden in Europe, even at the end of the RES period Estonia will be the country with the lowest debt burden in Europe. I still have no idea what the point of this rhetoric is. Even the Reform Party does not deny that there is a debt to be owed now. We take it in reasonable quantities, relatively in the same order of magnitude as other countries, and put that money in reasonable places. We know the financial background in the world. All major central banks print money: the European Central Bank prints money, the American Central Bank prints money, the British Central Bank prints money, the Japanese, the Russians, all print money. This money is desperately being squeezed into the real economy. If we build you, no matter what happens to that money later, no matter what happens to that debt later, the roads will remain. If we build the last mile, we take a decent high-speed Internet to every home in Estonia, it will remain. If we build our own network of hospitals, it will be accompanied by a quality that reaches the people of Estonia, a quality of treatment that reaches the people of Estonia, not only in Tallinn, but also in other county centres. It's all gonna be left. And once we have done all of this, we are still the least-debted country in Europe. What debt poverty are we talking about? This is indeed an exaggeration, and it is a very dogmatic exaggeration. But let's put another background here. Let's look at the debt burden on other major countries. We take France or the United States, we take Germany, whose debt will soon be 100%. Against this background, it is absolutely not conceivable that looking as far as the horizon is concerned, interest would rise. Looking as far as the horizon goes, interest doesn't rise. With a total loan burden of 6.6 billion euros, the cost of servicing our next year's loan will be EUR 7 million. It's not significant money, let's just say so. I'm not saying that $7 million isn't some kind of money, but it's not significant money. Now the PPPs. Of course, the PPP is not in the budget; that is the point. The point of the PPPs is that this cost is not a state budget expenditure, but is borne by a private partner and the state will rent the benefit from it. When we finish the tea under the PPP, there will be a cost and the cost is called the cost of availability. We start buying this road gradually every year or paying rent for it, or however we formalize it. There can be no cost other than the costs of the activities currently being prepared. I totally agree, I myself would have liked to see the PPP projects progress much more quickly. But the Estonian state apparatus is just as capable as it is when it beats with its feet, it doesn't move faster than you do. However, I do think that if we put about 20 kilometres on the Pärnu section, which we hope to do with this same PPP project, next year's construction will start to open, and if we put about 20 kilometres on the Tartu highway next year in addition to the existing 20 kilometres, which is also working, we will move at a perfectly reasonable pace. When we talk about building a four-line road of 60 kilometres or starting it a year, it is a perfectly reasonable pace of movement. In Estonia we have a little less than 300 kilometres of roads without four lines. Well, it depends on whether we want to make a piece from Pärnu to Latvia's border, so there are just under 400 kilometres. If we're doing 60 or 70 kilometers a year, we've done it in four or five years. That's a perfectly reasonable pace. This is the best time to do it. Stimulate the economy, get a path, draw distant regions together, make Estonia more accessible to all people, even in remote regions. It's a very sensible thing to do. In addition, there is, of course, rail development, which we will probably also be able to talk about here in the round of questions. So there's no way I'm gonna agree with the argument that we're not doing anything more than planned, or that we're not doing anything at all. But I'm just pointing out one more thing. The government was quite prepared to put more money into road construction, four-line road construction, but there were no projects. And there were no projects. With this budget, we put EUR 5 million in design. If these projects are completed, probably next year, then the next year can be built. If I come to you in a year with the next budget, there will be more new four-line roads. Hooray!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U102	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! It is clear that you deliberately confuse the 2021 draft budget with a possible theoretical perspective that does not have your government's finger on it. This is because there will be a lot of empty air in next year's budget and there will be no items in it. But what you're saying doesn't make any sense right now. You say, on the one hand, that it is useful to take out a loan, that interest is non-existent, and, on the other hand, that [you recommend] to make a PPP. The municipalities discussed this between 2005 and 2007, when the PPP was basically a project to circumvent the law and simply to obtain additional leverage. So in this sense, it would not make sense to do PPPs, but to take out a loan and build it yourself would make more sense if there was some logic in what you were saying. But this morning we heard you didn't trust the Prime Minister, and maybe the whole EKRE doesn't trust the Prime Minister. Tell me, please, if this is also the reason why you have stated in your media that you have wanted to plan subsidies for farmers, including transitional payments, but your coalition partners have not agreed to this. Which of these coalition partners didn't support your very good idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U104	I do not agree in any way with the assertion that PPP is a circumvention of the law. That is absolutely misleading. The PPP project is widely used and approved in Europe, and it is a diversification of opportunities to implement its own projects. What you say is a misleading and malicious description of the PPP. It has its virtues, but it's not a miracle or magic wand, but it's certainly not a flout of the law. I think what I'm saying makes perfect sense. But as far as top-up's concerned, yes, the Minister of Rural Affairs brought an additional application to the government. This additional request went through the discussions but was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U105	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. One of the slogans that has characterised the budgeting process for next year is that teachers' salaries will be frozen for four years. The statement from the Minister of Education is that in the current economic circumstances affected by the corona crisis, the government cannot allow teachers to raise their wages. On the other hand, in the coalition agreement, we find that the aim is to continue to raise teachers' salaries and to recognise teachers' work. So the expectation is actually quite the opposite. As the Finns say, the roots are broken, Estonia takes large loans at the expense of the future. You said that this is how the economy can be stimulated. Right. However, if maintaining a well-motivated and well-paid teacher and fulfilling promises are not to stimulate the economy in the longer term, I ask what is. But tell me which one of these teachers' raises will be in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U107	Yeah, well, here's a little bit of a myth. Wages were frozen next year, the entire payroll was frozen next year. It is quite clear that the country's budgetary strategy is being carried out by the government every year, indeed, this year, not in spring as usual, but in September. And basically, the issue of pay was only examined for one year. As I said in my introductory speech, we have such a big, say, prognosis about what happens in a year or two, that we really don't have the point of looking at the fourth year of the RES table. There's no point in looking at it. To predict four years in advance what our foreign trade will be like, what the Koronak behaviour will be like, what the financial markets will be like, to forecast it now four years away, as both Eesti Pank and the fiscal council said very clearly to us, is at best academic activity. When we talk about the payroll, we're talking about next year. Yeah, next year the payroll is frozen: no one gets more, but no one gets taken away. There have been exclamations here that if we have zero wage growth for the next four years, then there will be an evil herd. Let me put it this way: this is a clear overreaction, we are not talking about the next four years, but about the next four years. What will happen next year and the next year will be the issue of the discussions on the spring budget strategy and will, of course, be based on the economic forecast next year, the state of the economy. But also, we are looking at the labour market this year, we are looking at this year's employment, we are looking at this year's wage growth. Wage growth is basically zero this year; wage growth in the private sector this year is zero. But let's just say that people who are not reduced in wages and who have paid at all, and people who are not laid off or who are not burdened, are actually happy. The economic blow that came upon us with the corona was very, very severe. The whole sector's all over the place. In this situation, to say that wages are frozen in the public sector is not to harm the public sector from any angle, but is a very reasonable compromise between whether we are cutting public expenditure or not cutting or raising wages. I would also like to say this separately, especially when we are talking about teachers' salaries or any kind of public sector wages, that the government has made an increase in wages by cutting excise duty on all people in Estonia. All Estonian people have had wage increases, and our purchasing power has increased. There has been the highest price decrease in Estonia from all European countries, and this is directly related to the reduction of excise duties on diesel, electricity and gas and last year's alcohol duty. We have had the fastest fall in prices across Europe. This is the money that will be left in people's hands, that is, for all people, be a pensioner or a high-paid increase in purchasing power. So the fact that wages are stagnating next year, but prices are going to be cheaper, still increases the income of all people. I'm not saying everyone's gotten rich every other night, but the purchasing power has increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U108	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U109	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. According to the international education survey "Education at a Glance 2020', in 2019 the wages of Estonian teachers were almost the lowest in terms of purchasing power compared to the salaries of both teachers in the European Union and OECD countries. Last place was Latvia, but given that the salaries of teachers in Latvia will rise next year, there is a risk that Estonia will take the last place. According to PISA's results, we are a top country from education level, but among the last one from salary level. The same educational survey also highlights Estonia as a very negative example of a country whose relative growth in total government expenditure has been more than 8% higher in recent years than the increase in public education expenditure. As a result, our share of education expenditure in GDP has fallen below the EU and OECD average, accounting for only around 4.5% of GDP. Here we cannot talk about prioritising education. Yeah, you've been talking about the average salary. However, the average wage calculation includes overwork, often for family life and sleep time, with a general working time written into an employment contract, it is not possible to do everything in the current situation. Teachers' follow-up is a huge setback. Why isn't this money found even though the loan burden is so high?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U110	Thank you. Last year, the ratio of teachers' average wage to the average wage in Estonia was 114% or 115%, if I remember correctly. This is less than 120%, which is set as a general objective. As we do not grow next year, the pay of teachers will not increase, and this ratio will remain the same next year. We don't have a relapse, that's not true. There's no relapse. Given what our economic situation is like, what economic crisis we have, how much recession we have, I think that teachers must also understand that they are not something separate from the rest of the world and the Estonian economy. I don't think it's gonna be one year with the same salary that the purchasing power is the same as it's been so far, it's not gonna hurt them. But I'm not arguing that post-growth is important. I do not argue that we have a problem with fewer young teachers than necessary. These are universal problems in all societies that are ageing. So in that sense, I wouldn't fetish the pay component here. There are a number of other things in the education system and in the organisation of teachers' work or in school arrangements that we can motivate people to become teachers. But I do not agree with the argument that this year the teachers were not alone... If we had said that okay, teachers have to raise their wages, then you would have been right next to the rescuers and asked them to do a smoke dive for half the money, going out of the water to fetch the bodies for half the less money. There'll be police officers, cultural workers and medical staff right next door, who'll all say the same thing. We cannot raise the salary of one ministry and tell anyone else that we will not raise it. In this situation, it is reasonable to agree that wages will not increase in the public sector in 2021. I don't think people understand that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U111	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U112	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Finance! I think you've written this budget with a rather blunt pencil. There is a lot of air here, and it seems to me that you are bragging more about the fact that we have the lowest debt burden in Europe. It is known from primary mathematics that if you subtract a smaller number from a lower number, you will have a negative number. But in the money numbers, it's even worse, it's a duty of the future. Yes, it was said that this commitment to the future was very cheap. But please tell me what budget balance means for you as a conservative at all and whether you can see that the state budget could ever return to balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U113	Thank you. Yeah, I, as a conservative, can see that we're going back to balance. Of course I do. The draft before you today is also moving towards an equilibrium point; we will be back in balance by about the middle of the decade. This, of course, depends on [certain circumstances]. As I said, it is completely pointless to make five or ten-year predictions this day to try to survive in two or three years. But we're definitely going back to balance, and that's where we're going to get to balance. I have to say, of course, that there is nothing to do with primary school mathematics in the state budget and public finances. Unfortunately, it is not the case that we have the benefits and the costs here, and they have to match, and then everything will be fine. It's more complicated than that. Starting with what kind of financial instruments we can use and ending up with how we account for one or the other, and continuing with how we discount this thing on one or the other account. There are so many different nuances here and it takes a fantasy to see public finances or to imagine that there is nothing to do with elementary mathematics. As far as future obligations are concerned, the fact is that if we take a loan today, we give a simple example, we take a loan for the construction of the road, and we are told that, oh-oh-oh, future generations will have to pay back this loan, then [it may be said that] future generations will also follow this road. Today's knees are going down this road, and future generations are going down this road, everyone can use it. In this sense, I do not understand how injustice has been done to future generations. It is actually not so simple, not so easy at all, because by the time future generations start to pay back the debt of today's generation, this debt has become much smaller than their future income, than it has been for today's generation simply because we have become richer in the meantime. But that is only if we are smart and we are not going to be here right now based on some dogma that we are the only geniuses in Europe who are not spending. I don't think we're geniuses so big, we're gonna end up in a better position than the rest of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U114	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U115	Thank you. In today's uncertainty, loan money is also used by other countries, but what is very important is what these loan billions are being spent on. As I said before, the budget does not seem to alleviate welfare concerns. Here we are talking about new standards, municipal counselling and volunteering, but the total cost of the sector is reduced by 4 million euros. At the same time, the problems of people and carers in need of assistance are building up and growing. Let's take the issue of access to nursing homes. After all, today, if the elderly are not enough for a nursing home, and this is generally the case, the difference between a nursing home and a pension is either for children or for grandchildren. Let's look at Tartu, where the cost of a nursing home is 1100 euros. The pension is 500 or 600 euros for the elderly, and the remainder falls on the shoulders of children or grandchildren. This is not the case in developed European countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U116	Please ask me, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U117	Have you not thought that the extra money could have solved this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U118	Thank you. I would like to point out that, since the Ministry of Social Affairs received a huge amount of extra extra money in the additional budget this year, there is such a distortion of the image in several places, which is why the amount of money from the Ministry of Social Affairs is decreasing compared to 2020 and 2021. Actually, it's not. In fact, there is an increase in money in all areas compared to 2019, but since in the meantime, in 2020, we have made extraordinary increases in some specific areas, this may be the impression between these two years. That's the first thing. The second thing I say is, of course, that no, with a table that wide, you cannot strike, that in all the developed countries, nursing homes are fully paid off. In Switzerland, for example, nothing is paid. Nothing at all! It is true that in Switzerland, the pension is about EUR 2 500, if I remember correctly, but on the cost of living, it is one of the most expensive countries in the world, so it is not very rich with EUR 2 500. But what is the solution for another country? Yes, there are more social systems, there are less social systems. The Minister of Social Affairs has been to the government, if I now remember correctly, twice with the same subject, proposing different visions of how this problem could be solved. After all, the problem is understandable: we have people who do not have income or family members who have this income, or who do not have any family members, and who need basically 24/7 care. This problem exists and is currently largely solved by local authorities. Local authorities are, of course, in trouble and people are also in trouble, there is no doubt about that. I will be honest with you that, in a world-view, two out of three sections of government do not think that we should have a universally free home or, I do not know, an 89%-paid nursing home. Some kind of human responsibility, their children's responsibility must definitely be. If we are to do something in this area, it must, above all, be needs-based, so that people who cannot really pay themselves are helped by the municipality or the state. The government is debating what this model is like. We all understand that there is quite a lot of money in this place, and we all understand that, as the opposition has come up with a bill on this, it is now being advertised here. But there is no decision on how to solve this problem right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U119	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U120	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, First of all, this budget is moving not towards balance but away from balance, despite the fact that 2020 has proved to be much better than feared. That is what you yourself said here and, in fact, on the previous item. Forecasting is certainly a complex activity, and it is certainly difficult to do so in the midst of every crisis. If I recall from 1992 all the predictions I've been making or evaluating, then I think today's situation isn't very peculiar. Yes, it is more complicated in the short term, but the medium-term view is, in my opinion, much clearer today. In this key, I ask that if we have a budget deficit of EUR 1900 million, of which investment is one billion plus local governments, then 1.3 billion, then why should EUR 600 million go towards running costs? How does the Estonian economy, state and society improve with loan money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U121	Thank you. 2021 is yes in a deep minus, in the same order of magnitude as 2020. But when we look at the country's budgetary strategy, there's a very nice schedule that goes at a very nice pace, so we're going in the right direction. I would point out that government investment is not EUR 1.3 or 1.4 billion, but EUR 1.9 billion. True, not all of them may come out of this budget. And there is also the difference, isn't there what budgetary investment is and what government investment is? Investment by hospitals or universities, for example, is also government investment, but they may not be seen in this form in this budget at all. Furthermore, it must also be stressed that the whole amount of investment we expect next year and what we are planning next year has been made out of external instruments, as I said in the introductory speech, and these external instruments cannot, according to our laws, be in the budgetary picture until they have become the law themselves. They're still on the project level today. True, the Estonian Government and, let us say, the European side are making an effort to ensure that this money, which has been proposed to alleviate the crisis or to recover from the crisis, should be used as soon as possible. This "as fast as possible" means that already next year. And I don't see the risk of this money not going down. Of course, it takes a lot of work, a lot of effort. However, I do not see here the danger that the projects we have screened and proposed today will not be approved by the Commission, but all of them must finally be coordinated within the Commission. Rather, the danger or problem is that this procedure takes longer than we want. So if our investment is 1.9 billion and the budget deficit is in this order of magnitude, I would say no, we will not put money into current expenditure. But even if we put the decimal point into debate here, it is today, even in 2021, when we recover from a very deep recession, completely natural and justified. Yeah, I agree with the criticism that when we get to 2022 and we still have the same proportions, we've loosened up a little bit somewhere. But I do not agree that this would be a problem for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U122	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U123	Thank you for the floor. Today, it is quite clear that the corona period has had a very negative impact on people's mental health. We see this both in practice and have read about the studies. For example, the number of suicides has increased significantly, including the number of juvenile suicides. The Chairwoman of the Estonian School Psychologists' Association has confirmed that the number of children's self-harm cases has also increased terrifyingly. Clinical psychologists received EUR 400000 from the government as funding for the next year's professional year, which is very good. At the same time, school psychologists have also applied for EUR 200000 to finance their professional year, for which the government has currently not found any money. My question is: did you discuss this in the government, and when you discussed it, for what reasons was it decided not to fund the school psychologists' professional year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U124	Thank you. As far as I know, in addition to clinical psychologists, the government has allocated a total of EUR 1 million for mental health. This is probably not the case when we were making the state budget. Of course, not all money goes to the Ministry of Social Affairs alone. As far as I know, some part of it goes to the Minister of Population. But together, we have put a million in mental health for next year. I very sincerely hope so, but I can't tell you right now that this million will be enough for the projects that we were talking about, because we all understand that the problem is serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U125	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U126	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. A year ago, in August 2019, the government office agreed on real estate investments to start the construction of a new television complex for Estonian National Broadcasting, and 53 million euros were foreseen for the renovation of the National Library building, where the Tallinn units of the National Archives were also brought. This decision was disseminated in many news channels as an important public investment. The budget strategy transferred to the Riigikogu shows only the amounts foreseen for the next year for planning the reconstruction of the building, but the amounts required for reconstruction works 2022. The budgetary strategy for 2010 is not presented. My question is as follows: I know that you have discussed this issue in the government office: do you have any other plan to finance the reconstruction of the National Library building, which is sometimes dangerous for visitors and cultural values?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U127	As far as the ERR is concerned, it is governed by public law [legal entity]. The ERR is moving at its own pace, as it does. This ERR project was agreed that only part of the money would come as a so-called extra funding, as an investment grant, and the rest of the project would be paid by them themselves, either by borrowing a loan or by finding other savings points. And that's how slowly or quickly they move here, the public ERR will do as it pleases. But as far as the National Library is concerned, yes, there is money to design it, and it is basically EUR 53 million for construction and another EUR 10 million for furnishings, as booked from the total investment volume of Riigi Kinnisvara AS. It is booked from the total volume of investments, but it has not been designed there as a so-called project because there has been some bureaucratic confusion as to whether or not the decision of the government office will be written in this form by Riigi Kinnisvara AS. Anyway, this money hasn't been diverted anywhere else, no other precedent has been drawn to this money. It continues to exist among the so-called investments of Riigi Kinnisvara AS, free funds. The question is again how quickly they can design and mobilise this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U128	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U129	Thank you! Mr. Helme! Let's talk about the provisions for the Health Insurance Fund. You've already talked about the illusions, let's not talk about it anymore. But could you tell me how much in absolute terms the allocations for the sickness fund will increase next year? And the continuing question is, as Minister of Finance, you should know this: will there also be an increase in the prices of health care services in such a way that the nurses receive their salary increases, which have been agreed in the collective agreement between the Estonian Hospitals Association and the Estonian Association of Nurses, and which have also been notified by the Ministry of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U130	The Health Insurance Fund has its own budget and its own receipts related to the collection of social tax. The Health Insurance Fund also has its own reserves, which amount to about 200 million. Next year, the Health Insurance Fund is down. All of this is, of course, a forecast, a forecast of the labour market situation: what is the employment rate and what is the wage situation, or how much is the social tax. Yes, we are really forecasting that next year the Health Insurance Fund will be in deficit and will mobilise EUR 18 million of its reserves. With EUR 143.3 million, the State will provide it with additional resources so that it does not have to use its reserves to such an extent or so quickly. If it were to mobilise €160.170 million of its reserves, it would have more or less run out of reserves by the end of next year. We do not want to create this situation. If we can see that their reserves are indeed decreasing at the rate currently indicated in the forecast, [then their costs will have to be reviewed]. But in general, I'm a little more optimistic than the prognosis, and I don't really think this situation is going to get that bad. After all, we also saw this year that the Health Insurance Fund originally made a very pessimistic forecast, after which it turned out that instead of 200 million, the extra costs were actually 100 million. If we really get to a situation where the sickness fund minus will stay at 160, 170 million or 150 million each year, as today's forecast shows, it will no longer be possible for the state to finance this amount every year. Then you have to do something about the cost of the health insurance fund. But we're not gonna talk about it today. We'll wait for the spring forecast next year, and then we'll make further plans. In any case, next year, the sickness fund will be supported by EUR 143 million from other tax revenues. Thank you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The wage agreement is that, as we know, this agreement comes every year only after the state budget. There is a small buffer for this in the state budget, so we have this money included in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U131	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U132	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of Finance! I ask about the Tallinn Hospital project. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, with whom you must still have a relationship of trust, at least in the current state, as it seems to me, called this budget a budget for breaking the corona. This means that with this budget, we will eradicate this virus once and for all. I have no doubt about what he said here. But I have a question. He said that according to this budget, the biggest object in 2021 is Tallinn Hospital. Since I am also a member of the Tallinn Council, it became clear that in his imagination Tallinn's participation is up to a maximum of 100 million euros. The state has an idea that the hospital will cost 550 million euros and Tallinn's participation could be around 200 million euros. How do these scissors work out now? Are they making another deal? Or how do you imagine that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U133	Thank you. It's a very big project, isn't it? The cost of this project, of course, consists of several different parts: are we talking only about construction, or are we also talking about furnishings and the infrastructure attached to the hospital? They are all different pieces and can be financed from different sources. They can be financed by the local government, and they can be financed by the state, they can also create some sort of interim options, right, some kind of foundations. The solutions have not actually been locked this day. The cost of the construction of the hospital is estimated to be around 350 million euros and the cost of furnishings is estimated to be at least 100 million euros. What's the actual sum? The actual volume isn't until we're in the final stretch of design. A deal with the city? I have not negotiated with the city, it is more of another party's internal affairs, Minister of Social Affairs, Prime Minister, Mayor. But the stories that came from these discussions to the rest of the members of the government were that the city understands very well that it also has a very large share to pay here. The city has calculated that money must be borrowed for this purpose. And, well, let's just say that whether the own contribution is EUR 100 million or EUR 200 million is definitely not a question of detail, that would be a very substantial detail, but the amount has not yet been finally agreed. Ultimately, the city is interested in participating. The city is interested to have its participation there too, because in essence Tallinn Hospital means that the city's East-Tallinn Central Hospital and West-Tallinn Central Hospital are consolidated into one major Tallinn Hospital. Only the system of health centres remains throughout Tallinn. It's a really big project, it's really big money, and we're just in the start of this project. However, it must be said that this project is urgent, because we want to do so through the European recovery fund. The European recovery fund must be mobilised within three years and finally spent within six years. It's an ambitious plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U134	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! This government goes down in history, I think, as the first government that doesn't invest a cent of its tax revenues. Even if we add euro money to it, this government will not invest a single cent. How did I come to that conclusion? Very simply! If we take the biggest number you've offered next year, it'll be EUR 1.9 billion. At the same time, EUR 2.4 billion will be borrowed. I think you agree that my argument is correct. Moreover, between these two figures there is about EUR 500 million, which means that the loan money is actually used to pay wages and buy fuel. Is such action sustainable? All the more so when the Prime Minister has actually stated in Question Time in this very Chamber that the loan money is used exclusively for investment. Is the Prime Minister lost, or have you failed the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U136	First of all, explain where this difference comes from: 2.4 billion loans and 1.9 billion investments and deficits. Deficite and investment are more or less in the same order of magnitude. Next year, the Estonian state will pay back some 450 million euros of loans, which are short-term loans taken this year. We took the loan three times: we took it twice a year and we took it once a half-year. The six-month loans are already being repaid in October, while the rest will be repaid in spring and summer next year. There's almost half a billion coming out of there, that's what the difference is. So we're taking the next, longer-term loan, but maybe we're taking the short-term loan, which we haven't decided yet today, and we're paying back almost half a billion loans. In addition, the Estonian state also conducts various financing operations. We have capitalised a number of state companies this year, but the main volume of financing operations has, however, gone to KredEx, to a lesser extent also to the Rural Promotion Foundation. And it's good money. This is the money that we will continue to lend to businesses and that will help our entire business and economic environment. And most importantly, we hope to get it back. It's not a cost, it's a loan we're hoping to get back. So, to a large extent, this half-billion-dollar difference is that we are going to have loans repaid and we are going to do financing transactions. And I say this: I am very proud that we can make nearly EUR 2 billion of investments so that we do not spend our tax money. Whoo-hoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U137	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U138	I also understand that your whole understanding of finance is that the more, the more proud it is. The question is, what slowed you down? There is no cyclical justification for a structural deficit of 6,6%, and the quality of your spending is not worthy of criticism. Why did you limit yourself to 6.6% when the real goal of your government is to spread as much money as possible and leave the pains of climbing out of this hole to the offspring? Why do you even allow this decade to move towards balance? Why don't you tell me that in this decade you're not doing anything at all to improve the situation? What's the limit? Tell me. I really don't understand where your boundaries are.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U139	Yes, thank you! Well, I disagree. As much stimulation as we do here, with a few billion this year and with a few billion next year, it will have a significant macroeconomic impact, which will certainly have to deliver and reverse our economic growth. Deficiencies can lead to economic growth, wage growth and tax receipts. So we're talking about the pain of coming out of the hole for the next governments, [it's not true]. You're talking about your experience that when you cut it, the hole gets deeper and coming out of it is awfully painful. If we spend it right, there's no hole. There's no pain in coming out of there. The economy is growing so well that the repayment of the loan over time is then 15 or 30 years, depending on how we make some kind of loan, it is almost undetectable. There's no pain at all. Today's government, depending on how long it lasts or how long it's in power, makes such good economic policy decisions that everyone who comes after us is in the middle of a sea of flowers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U140	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Helme! The Minister for the Environment stated that there really is no room for satisfaction with this budget, and I also think that, unfortunately, our children will not live in the middle of the sea of flowers, because obviously this budget will not benefit the environment. You mentioned investment in the development of hydrogen technology. Unfortunately, they are not investments, they are an application that is to be submitted. However, with regard to environmental objectives, most of the metrics have no ambition at all, most of the metrics simply seek to maintain the existing situation. However, for example, it is intended to reduce the number of protected forests by almost a third. Would you like to comment on whether you are proud that, apart from your government, the environmental condition will deteriorate further?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U142	Thank you. I understand the disappointment of the Minister for the Environment, because the Minister for the Environment had an application for wage growth in his field, and that was something he put on the table very consistently throughout the negotiations. But as I explained here earlier, there will be no wage increases in the public sector next year. I do not dispute his fundamental argument that we have very large pay gaps or pay scissors in different areas in the public sector, and this is not healthy competition if one ministry is squirming very good workers from another ministry. Actually, there's gotta be some kind of balance here, there's no argument about that. That is what we should be moving towards, so that we have a relatively similar salary in the public sector, at least in ministries with similar work. However, I absolutely do not agree with the argument that the environmental sector does not receive any money. Oh, my God! The entire budget of the European Union for the next period, the whole recovery fund, is just an environmental issue. 38% of all euro money must be green; hundreds of millions of CO2 money will go to green investment. And what else did it turn out? We ordered a separate study, the Ministry of Finance carried out a separate study on the competitiveness of the Estonian tax environment. [It came out that] Estonia has the highest environmental charges compared to all its neighbours. Businesses are paying crazy money for water, but for mining for everything, for renewable energy. There is a very, very large amount of money flowing into the environment, and it is very, very much done there. I categorically disagree with the way I now say it, the false attitude that today's government is not dealing with environmental issues. Estonia is one of the most advanced countries in Europe in moving towards climate goals. Whether I like these climate goals or not, I am putting it aside right now, I think it is a pseudo-issue. But with regard to the objectives that have been set, we are the most advanced in Europe. Our CO2 levels have been most downgraded compared to other countries. When the rest of Europe discusses whether to move 55% below 1991 levels by 2030, we are already at 60% today. We can slowly throw our foot over our knees and wait ten years for the others to catch up. So, in this sense, we have done a great deal in the environmental field in the past and will continue to do so with very large sums of money, also today, also in the coming years. It's crazy money that goes into the environment. But yes, Rene Koka was pleased with the bitter because he could not get his employees a raise in wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U143	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U144	Honourable manager! Honourable Minister! It was already said here that there are problems with the financing of health care. This is also mentioned in this development plan, which was distributed to us here a little while ago, 'Estonia 2035', which says that we have much less healthcare funding than we have on average in Europe. Now, the document we are discussing today is a country's budgetary strategy and it has such figures: between 2021 and 2024, the Health Financing Programme will grow from 1.76 billion to 1.87 billion, or 6.3%, but at the same time nominal gross domestic product will grow by 25% during the same period. This means, as if, that the financing of health care is planned to be even lower than the gross domestic product that it has been. What is the explanation for this, or is there some other way of financing health care?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U145	I think the most honest explanation is still to predict both the shortage of healthcare funding, economic growth and the economic growth that is specific in terms of the revenue from the state budget, whether we have rapid economic growth that does not lead to rapid growth in tax revenues, or whether we have the other way around, so that growth and growth in tax revenues are moving at a relatively similar pace, is extremely difficult today. I don't take any long plans seriously about this. I don't want to summon a ghost, but when we held the second pillar debate, they made daring predictions for 30 and 50 years. The real fact is, even three and five years later, when we make forecasts today, we're still gonna be screwed with a really big curve. What I can say calmly is that I think that not only today's government, but no Estonian government, whatever it is, will let the health care system or the health insurance fund go bankrupt. And the extra money we are putting on this year's budget is precisely so that prices for health services should not be increased or the volume of healthcare should not be reduced and that we can move forward as we are today. In the spring of next year, in making the country's budget strategy for next year, firstly, we have settled the economic situation better, we have forecasts with a slightly better confidence limit, and I also think that the time frame within which we can have these discussions and conclude agreements is a little more merciful to us. In September, it was very difficult to agree on all these things at once. We will still get a clearer answer on the future of health care or on the needs and opportunities for financing health care in April next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U146	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister of Finance! I'll make a quick little bit of a clarification. You are saying that you do not know how to predict 3 to 5 years, and that is why there is no budgetary strategy. The strategy is not a prognosis, the strategy is a plan, and it comes from the military, it's a war plan. Without a plan, we will not make it anywhere, and without a plan, we will certainly not recover from this economic crisis. Make sure the strategy is ready. But I wanted to ask you about tourism. When I opened up this budget, I imagined that if tourism was 10% of our exports, about EUR 2 billion, and 8% of GDP, and if loans were to be made to 6.7% of GDP, then the tourism reviving measures would be in the order of 150 to 200 million. But I found a zero in the budget. How do you explain that? Why have you left Estonia with such an important field of export and such an important employer entirely in the hands of fate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U148	Thank you. No, we have a strategy, of course, a national budget strategy is a strategy. Here are the beautiful tables for four years, this job is all done. It is simply that I have stressed several times that the forecasts on which this strategy is based are very high. We have Eesti Pank, who says that the likely increase next year is, I don't know, 0.2%. We have banks that say that the likely increase next year will be 6 to 7%. We have a forecast from the Ministry of Finance, which says that the increase is 4.5%. It's so big, you can say from these numbers that we're still going to have to adjust this strategy a lot next spring. Tourism is such that, first of all, this year tourism has been supported by considerable money: 25 million plus 10 million euros through EAS. In addition, some of the measures taken through the Rural Promotion Foundation were in fact also suitable for small tourism enterprises in rural areas. We have supported tourism. By the way, this is also tourism support if we support Tallink directly with the fees for water. This is also tourism support if we support aviation. I'm sure you'll agree that tourism isn't just a hotel. Of course, we have also offered surety loans and investment loans through KredEx, but also simply guarantees, investments and all kinds of bridge financing options. And next year, very large sums of money are planned to be channelled into this area through EAS, precisely from external funds, but they really are not here. They're really not here. I also have to say this, of course, that the idea of reviving this whole sector with vouchers has not reached the desired result with this solution. But in fact, we had solutions on the table and it is quite possible that next year we will start to consider them again. Here, of course, we have to admit to ourselves that, if we have one sector that is so fucked up and the prospect of recovery is so unclear, then at some point we need to find this balance point where we need to say that we do not keep this sector up indefinitely as a zombie, placing a huge amount of money in it, but allowing the economy to make its destructive creations. When this sector comes back, it will come back, and when it comes back, we will be supporting it by means of investment grants and any other means. Somewhere it's an equilibrium point. But I'm not saying we already have this point of balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U149	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U150	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! This is clearly one of the very anti-teacher national budgets. I would like to remind you that, if there was a major economic crisis in the past and public sector wages were also severely cut, one of the few groups who received the salary increase were teachers at the time. Today, you want to freeze teachers' salaries not for one year, but for four years. We are very well aware of the situation in the Estonian school today, where the minimum wage for teachers has fallen behind the national average by more than 100 euros, where a large proportion of teachers are about to retire, where there is already a very serious shortage of teachers in very many schools. How can you, Mr Minister, look at the Estonian people, the Estonian teachers from this Riigikogu panel and say that you will freeze teachers' salaries for four years when the crisis is over? How can you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U151	Thank you. I've been able to look right at it and explain that it's a myth for four years, it's not true. I guess you weren't in the hall. We're talking about freezing wages next year. Next year! What decisions will come in the future, next spring with the next country's budget strategy, is impossible to say today. But we are talking over how to freeze wages for next year, not for four years, not for ten years, not until hell freezes, but only for next year's payroll is frozen. During the previous crisis, the decision was made that the only ones receiving the raise were teachers, but during this crisis it has been decided that the only ones receiving the raise are pensioners. You just said yourself that a lot of teachers are retired. So this money also reaches a lot of teachers. We have a situation in which a lot of people just had to talk about the tourism sector, and they lose their jobs. In the entertainment sector, people's salaries were cut by 30-50%. Unemployment has increased to 8 to 9% by the end of the year. In such a situation, where wage increases across the country are in fact a private sector or a public sector of zero or minus sign, it will not be difficult for me to look at teachers and say that solidarity will also affect you next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U152	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U153	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Helme! You are saying that it is difficult to predict three to four years in advance, while some of the questions you previously answered bravuously, that there is no question of how to come out of this huge deficit hole, and that this is all happening for sure and very easily. My question concerns part of the deficit, namely the deficit of the sickness fund. This year's deficit is estimated to be around EUR 30 million, largely due to the corona, but yesterday the Expert of the Centre for Development published that, as the current financing model continues and the population ages, the deficit of the Health Insurance Fund will increase to EUR 900 million per year after 15 years. Understandably, the treatment volume cannot be reduced; the queues are already very long. How can this huge deficit be overcome in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U154	I have said this number here several times next year, precisely to avoid raising prices for healthcare, and in order not to extend the queues, the Health Insurance Fund will mobilise EUR 18 million from its reserves, a little bit of money, and the country will increase EUR 143 million. Here before, Siim Kallas' question was that if we have so much bigger growth and the funding for the health fund is less than that, then in fact, this increase comes from the fact that in the meantime we fell into a minus and now we come back from that minus. But in the meantime, the sickness fund hasn't had a minus, its expenses have been stable all along, and they've been paid off. Next year, we'll cover all the missing money from the Health Insurance Fund. Well, not all the money, 18 million euros they take from their reserve. In the spring of next year, we will look again at the situation and we will have to give new assessments of how we can proceed. I'm optimistic. I think that our economic growth in the next few years, and not only economic growth, but also growth in tax receipts, is actually better than we fear now. This optimism is due to our additional budget this year, we were still very careful and we planned much bigger cons and much bigger reductions in receipts, but the actual situation is better. In the spring of next year, we will look at this situation again. That's all I know how to add.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U155	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that teachers' wage increases do not need to be monitored through a budgetary strategy, but this increase will also be recorded, while you will be presenting very clearly the items that are written there. Which is the right thing, which is the wrong thing? But my question is, in fact, motivated by the fact that you indicated that the doctors' pay talks are ongoing. That's how I read that the pay of doctors and nurses is rising, but the pay of teachers isn't rising. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U157	The thing about objects, as we know, is that if we start building one object and build it for several years, it's a certain amount. Take, for example, the Knighthood Building, a size of 14 million euros, of which eight will be taken in one year, and another number of millions next year. We've planned the total, we'll just divide it over the years. Wage increases are of a different nature. I don't know the outcome of the negotiations. I cannot answer the result of the negotiations. Perhaps the result of the negotiations is that it is also decided to freeze wages for one year. I am not part of these negotiations, and I cannot answer what is there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U158	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We heard from the Minister of Finance that as far as the horizon is concerned, there is no indication of an increase in interest rates on loans. You assured yourself, Parliament and the public that, despite taking very large loans, we are still the European Union's smallest country of debt, and this is like redemption. And as a matter of fact, this loan is cheap in the very long run. Here comes my four very short questions. How many years does your prognosis cover? Why do professionals still criticize large borrowings? And what's the big deal? What kind of analysis does your optimism rely on? And one more short question, I'm sorry there's so many! just: Can this ever result in a tax increase, as Ray Dalio, who has analysed the 48 debt crises in history, has observed in the case of large debt burdens? A little bit of it, but I think it's gonna be a good answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U160	Yeah, I got it. How far does the horizon go? The longest government bonds are usually 30 years old. There are tens and thirtys, there are shorter ones, right, there are different ones, but the longest ones are probably 30 years old. What gives me conviction, or why am I so confident that these interests will not rise? The answer is that the higher the debt, the more impossible it is for interest to rise. Who owns this debt? The owners of this debt are mainly two associations. One company is central banks, and the other company is generally investment funds, whether pension funds or other investment funds. When interest rates become very high, they can no longer be served and these central banks or investment funds have to write off their assets. They would never agree to this. Rather, they accept that these assets make a ridiculously small profit for them, but they do not take the risk of having to write down these huge assets. What is the source of criticism? The criticism is that we live in a magical world. We all understand this is a magical world. It is essentially an era of unprecedented monetary policy. Central banks, including the American Central Bank, the Federal Reserve, are buying up junk bonds on the market. Two thirds of the European Central Bank's assets will soon be national bonds; it will essentially finance national debt on the secondary market, using fictitious money rather than printed money. Nowadays, it's just one more column in Excel's table, with really big zeros. But, yeah, it's basically fictional money. The criticism is also due to the fact that, due to such monetary policy, those who already have some kind of property or share shares or real estate or are the owners of some kind of mine are constantly increasing their wealth and the possibility of borrowing from this wealth and making yourself richer through some kind of investment is also increasing all the time. But for people who do not have any property, such as a regular Estonian person, who will graduate from university and start buying one- or two-room apartments in order to create a family, this possibility is becoming more and more distant because printed money makes all asset classes more expensive, both real estate, securities and everything else, i.e. everything but debt. This means that we are moving at a very fast pace and increasingly hotly in the direction that those who already have money are getting richer, and the opportunity for those who do not have money to become richer, somehow richer, is becoming more and more difficult. This is not a good social policy balance. Another part of the criticism is that good luck, sotto voce is saying that no one will pay it back as long as the debt is served. Let's roll, roll, roll, today we'll take ten years, in ten years we'll take 30 years, as long as we serve interest. Well, everything works. The Swedish real estate market has been operating this way for decades. But where's the border? Japan's debt is more than 200% of GDP; America's debt is 130%; the countries of southern Europe are 140.160%; Germany's debt is 100%; France has long been over 100%. So where's the border? How long are we going to create this magic money? And how long can this magic money generate real growth? No one has given a good answer to these questions. And if there's something going on, it's gonna happen monumentally. Now for the tax increase. Perhaps you have heard such a wonderful thing as modern monetary theory, or modern money theory, or, as the English say, magic money tree. According to this theory, the state could stop collecting taxes at all and finance itself only in debt. The fact that he stops collecting taxes and transfers money from debt to the economy creates so much economic growth that this debt will never run out of the way. And there's never a problem. It was very simplistic said, the scheme itself is a little more complicated. I'm sorry, I don't think that's gonna happen. But I believe that if we use this money sensibly, we invest correctly in this budget, there are sensible investments, there are investment in research funding, there are investment in entrepreneurship, here are investments in infrastructure, investments in the school network and in the hospital network, then our economic base is growing so much that we collect so much more payment from this base without raising taxes, so that we do not have any problem in repaying this debt. It could be worse, but life doesn't exist without risks. The fourth question was still, but I couldn't write it down. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U161	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U162	Thank you. Dear Minister, I did not find decisive green reverse measures in this draft budget. However, they are inevitable and time limits are in place. Please list for me some important green reverse measures from this bill, as well as the amounts of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U163	Thank you. One very important measure relates to the energy performance of buildings. It's pure grass, as green as it can be. The energy efficiency of buildings is something that Europe strongly loves and recommends to us. In our climate, it is undoubtedly also sensible for people's heating bills to decrease, energy costs to decrease, and a very large amount of money is foreseen for it through MKM. If I remember correctly, it was about 80 million euros. The second measure is the creation of hydrogen fuel infrastructure, an amount of EUR 5 million next year, a total of EUR 30 million. The whole amount of money that goes into R &amp; D is actually linked to a green turn. In total, we have 280 million R &amp; D funds, even a little more. Rail electrification is also part of the green turn, the replacement of diesel trains by electric trains. A green turn is not a mystery. Of course, during the green turn, it is also possible to do silly things, and they do, because when money is poured on as much as green money, there will be silly things anyway. But otherwise, it's all reasonable. The fact that we improve our living environment, reduce our energy costs, make energy less carbon intensive, and it's all a hero. And of course this, too, must be taken into account, which I still have to stress again, that there are very many things that have actually been decided by the government, or that the direction we are going in is linked to euro money, and that there are no euro money here [in the budget]. Thirty-eight per cent of euro money will have to turn into a green turn, which will be billions over the next six to seven years. So there is absolutely no concern that money will not go into greening. The concern is that it should be used sensibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U164	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U165	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! I am pleased to hear that you consider the topic of mental health of children to be important, but the reality is that the Ministry of Social Affairs asked for 5,4 million euros in the field of mental health, received 1 million. Of this million, EUR 400000 is intended to finance the professional year of clinical psychologists, which is a permanent financial instrument. 600000 euros was thus understood by the Minister of Social Affairs, who is a one-off injection of money, and its use is not certain at the moment. School psychologists would need EUR 200000 for the professional year. The number of children's help calls, which have increased several times, would also need about EUR 200000. Childcare centre for sexually abused children would also need EUR 200000. That's 600,000. If we make amendments on these issues and you consider the mental health of children to be important as Minister of Finance, do you believe that the Coalition supports these amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U166	Thank you. These are not unreasonable amounts given the size of this budget. Of course, as you know, the budget procedure must also show a point of austerity or the possibility of additional revenue. Everything depends very much on where this savings point is. I cannot speak for the whole coalition right now, but I look forward to these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U167	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U168	Mr. Minister! Why do you feel so bad about agriculture and the Minister for Rural Affairs? That's surprising. In the case of strawberry payments, you have already said that the final result is zero. The Minister for Rural Affairs also came out, as I recall, with an additional request of some EUR 63 million. The answer was zero again. Now, in a situation where Latvia and Lithuania have already implemented extraordinary subsidies in their agricultural sector and Estonia is thinking about this matter, the Minister for Rural Affairs has expressed the opinion that additional money can be obtained from the reserve of the Government of the Republic next year. The reserve is less than 100 million euros, as I recall. How likely do you think it is that some 20 to 30 million of this money can be channelled into agriculture, for example, as an additional direct grant over the next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U169	Thank you. I categorically reject the accusation that I have a bad attitude towards Arvo Aller. Arvo Aller is an excellent minister. It is true that he brought a whole series of requests for budget negotiations, and much of them we could not satisfy. We have talked in the coalition about possible additional subsidies in connection with the crisis, but we have not fixed these things once and for all. We are not talking about 20 to 30 million, but we can talk about some 10 million exceptional subsidies for the agricultural sector. And, of course, when that support comes, it can only come from the government reserve. Will it come this year, whether it will come next year, what exactly this amount is, to whom it is directed precisely, these discussions are currently taking place in the coalition? But I sincerely hope there's something we can do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U170	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I, unlike you, am not overjoyed that zero cents are going to be invested in tax revenues. I think it is nice to invest foreign money, but this money must also be paid back, and I do not think it is sustainable. But as soon as it's for borrowing, I'm asking what's going on with Pärnu. Take the example of Via Baltica next year, the budget line will have EUR 12 million. If one kilometre of 2 + 2 highways costs 4 million, [for this money] will receive three kilometres a year. It takes 50 years to go at this rate, and the road to Tallinn 2 + 2 is already ready. Why would you prefer a PPP project when you praise lending as an extremely favourable, excellent method of financing? It is obvious that the PPP will be more expensive than, in fact, building this road by taking a loan from the state today. My second question concerns your favorite child, Rail Baltic. Here, too, I see a ridiculously small amount, EUR 15 million. Is that the money that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications asked for, or was that the maximum amount you agreed to?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U172	Thank you. Wait, what's this strange money now? European money is not foreign money; it is our euro. Loan money is no stranger's money either. Our money, our money. There's no stranger's money. It's some old saying that debt is foreign. He's not nothing so foreign. The money we borrow, we can do our own thing with it. Yeah, well, maybe here's where we're gonna have to talk about the fact that there's no sign of money in the state budget. Whether he came from VAT or income tax or from a loan, he goes entirely to the Treasury, and the Treasury finances the things provided for in the state budget. Money doesn't have a sign on it. Well, maybe here it's specific, right? Social tax goes to certain funds and gambling tax is used for a specific purpose, but basically, money doesn't have a label on it. It's all so-called computational or imaginary. If we say that investments are 1.9 billion and the loan is 1.9 billion, they are of the same order of magnitude. All we're borrowing is an investment. In fact, it is not possible to identify whether the euro that went into road construction was borrowed money or came from the excise duty on alcohol sold in the shop. That's part of it. Now, the biggest problem with road construction and, by the way, Rail Baltic is still the bottleneck in design. It turns out, and this is where I look indictment towards the Reform Party, that design has not been dealt with. The balcony is God's empty. There's nothing to take! Well, it hasn't been four years, it hasn't been ten years, there are no projects. And it's not! I don't know why not. But what I know is that the budget for 2021 is set at EUR 5 million for design alone, and that is already very much to be built when these projects are completed. And every year, more of these projects come. Of course, if we build by three kilometres, we will not make it anywhere, but if we do a project with a few million euros that will solve a 20-km section, and we will do four-five next year, then it will be possible to take a much longer section than three kilometres in the next year. I remember when we put together the coalition, I immediately began to say that 2016, 2017 and 2018 are very good years. Sooner or later, the economy will be cooling down. In order to act countercyclically, projects and financing models must now be prepared. Not just chilling, but a very, very big freeze came as a big surprise for all of us. And it didn't come in 2021, 2022 or 2023, which you could imagine and what was forecasted here a year ago, but came a boom! This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following That's the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U173	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U174	Thank you. I suggest that you check on yourself these smart moves on economic forecasts, the sea of flowers and taxes that come from loans and are bigger than the loans themselves. Try this way to lift yourself up by your hair. But my question is the same. The first question I had was: where are your limits? If you say that the more we spend, the faster the economy grows, and that at any time any deficit is good for the economy, tell me why only 6.6% of the structural minus. Economic theory doesn't give any explanation. Not to mention the borrowing rate, which is a completely marginal question about where and when we spend.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U175	Now I don't know where you're getting that random defka at any time. Not at any time, we're always talking about contrast cyclic. Contrast cycle! We have the biggest fall of 10 years ♪ not only in Estonia, but all over the world. Of course, we need countercyclical spending. I have never talked about us still having to fuck with the loan in the big growth phase. Absolutely not, I disagree at all. But first we have to get big growth there. For this, we are now not just able to run the economy again and do so with a loan. But where are the boundaries? Boundaries are cognitive. The Italian border is currently 160% of GDP. In Germany, the border is drawn somewhere to try to stay below 100%. France has moved more than 100%. There are 130% in the United States, and they still feel no harm. Their boundaries are like this. I certainly wouldn't want to go that far. It's perfectly clear. Is this limit 40% or 60%? This 60% comes from the Maastricht criteria. Somewhere someone has made some kind of calculation and has come to the conclusion that too much credit burden is starting to drag down the economy, not to warm up any more. But I think that neither 20% nor 30% are yet close to the border to burden the economy. We speak purely theoretically. Pure theoretically! I wasn't talking right now about putting gas at the bottom until we get to that limit, but we are talking purely theoretically, where there are limits. And I never said we spend infinitely any time. No, it's not. I'm talking about contrast-cyclical stimulation. If there is any reason for this, then now, and next year, there is a reason for it. There's no argument for not taking debt. It is a question of how long we want to stimulate the economy or how effectively it will bring us the growth we hope for.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U176	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Martin Helme! You claimed that the only thing you rejected from the additional applications of the Ministry of the Environment was the increase in wage costs. This certainly was not the case, there were many very important substantive divisions, including the construction of an environmental and nature building that would promote our wooden architecture. But my question is about Rail Baltic. I think that the completion of this project is in jeopardy because you rejected the request for the drawing up of the thematic plans of the counties on mineral resources, which would map out the resources needed for this project. Can you comment on that, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U178	Thank you. First of all, it must be made clear that I did not claim that the only request we rejected from the Ministry of the Environment was the salary application. I said it was a request that the Minister for the Environment was the saddest because of the rejection. The wooden house, or the "environmental house" or whatever it is called, this multiple wooden house, has received planning money and can be built as a PPP project with great success, very well. The Ministry of the Environment is sitting on a huge surface, paying for a wild rent. The ministry's offices are sitting around the city, paying for a wild rent. We have an example in the form of a super ministry. You've got an anchor tenant, there's a private investor who's gonna build a building for his money. The Ministry of the Environment is able to move into a new wooden building, save rent money and be the anchor investor. This can be done peacefully with the PPP. And as far as I've been talking to Rene Coke, that's the way they're planning to go now. The thematic planning of the Rail Baltic mines had no real connection with Rail Baltic, but there were a number of different disputes between the various ministries for various reasons, the details of which I am not currently able to go into. But it is clear that before it was here the question was that Rail Baltic investments will be very small next year, that this project is behind schedule, that it is expensive and that there will be major problems with its management. The only solution this summer was the European Union's co-financing rate. It was able to be stored. By the way, I think, well, now I'm fabulating that it only happened because we put such a bully point in the coalition agreement. Otherwise, we should have increased our own funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U179	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U180	Honourable manager! Honourable Minister! The budget document is full of all kinds of exciting metrics and targets, this is a new and interesting word for budgeting, and I think that is a good thing. However, in Table 271, where there are welfare performance budgets and metrics, one measure such that natural growth must be positive. My question is that whose natural age is meant by Estonians, Estonian citizens, permanent residents or anyone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U181	Yeah, I can't take this chart off right now. It took me a long time. But the general principle of statistics is still that we are talking about the whole population. Those who are permanent residents here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U182	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U183	Thank you, manager. Minister! I have concerns about the future of social welfare. I will look at the budget for next year: EUR 9.4 million for aid instruments will come from the state budget, but 3.9 million, or more than a third, will come from the Social Fund. Let us think that the same disabled children, whom I spoke about during the previous item on the agenda, will receive EUR 2.65 million from the state budget for the support fund for local governments. Yes, there will be EUR 6.1 million, but this will come again from the European Social Fund. This is the money that must be brought to the state budget someday, because it is our people who need our help. These are the responsibilities of the state. And when I look at the forecasts of the external resources that you have shared with this state budget through ministers, I see that 71 million will go to Estonian language and integration, 77 million to children and young people, 38 million to employment reform, 135.65 million to labour market services, 95,6 million to long-term care. These millions are huge amounts that will be distributed in the coming years. These are the permanent obligations of the State, which are intended to be covered by European Union funds. How do we really support our people in years' time? What is the responsibility of the state? What is the solution here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U184	Thank you. I remember how we talked about a year ago that from 2021 all these funds would start to fall away, and the country had no plan on how to replace these funds, and how we would live on. I'd say we have a very good plan. For the next seven years, there will be no such concern. I have never understood the view that euro money is not like real money. Yes, it is. Those people who receive help do not ask whether it is euro money or Estonian tax money or something else. We are doing a national budget strategy for four years, we are not doing it for seven years, so we should worry about what will happen to euro money in seven years' time, and this money will be carried forward for another two or three years, to the next period. But then we have to make this plan. As is the case today, certain transitions will end, some new programmes will come to their place. Not all the programmes that have been made for euro money are those that have to last for the rest of their lives. There are things that have been done just because money is lying on the ground and it needs to be spent. I am not saying that this applies to the programmes that have now been read out, I am saying that generally about euro money. There are programs of different value for us. But the fact that we can relieve the burden on the state budget through external means has been done by all Estonian governments since 2004, there is nothing immoral or cynical about it. It's very reasonable planning of money. And I'd say the ministries are very good, that they've managed to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U185	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs says that investments planned in the state budget for 2021 are not enough to restart the economy. They actually say that the role of the state is to give the opportunity to invest. They do not complain at all that they want some kind of aid for builders and so on. How much do you take into account the opinion of Estonian construction companies or the opinion of interest groups when drawing up the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U187	Yes, thank you! Today, I had a discussion with the head of the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs about the same concerns, so I feel that I am communicating with entrepreneurs as Bläck Rokit says, "All free." But it is also clear that if construction companies say that next year the market will fall by a billion, then the state... After all, the state can, Jürgen will certainly be happy to take out one billion loans and make the construction market worth that billion. But the real truth is that the state does not have any such projects in the nearest sense to balance this market. In that case, the state should start creating models where it is actually building a scheme in the private sector. I think that a little help is that we are doing the reconstruction of the houses, too, the 80 million or more that goes into it, after all, helping the construction companies. It is, in some ways, new money, because in the past it took place in a much smaller volume. There have been different ideas on how to stimulate housing. For example, it may be that we want to build smaller apartment buildings in Narva, Viljandi or Võru since the end of Soviet time there has been no apartment building built there, and let's say you build the house ready, the state comes and buys half the apartments, starts renting out, in ten years, sells out, in any case, selling out with profit. The state gets the property, then gets the rent and then sells it with profit. Such schemes are possible. No diagrams have been made today. It has not been possible to conclude such a political agreement. But such schemes are possible. On the other hand, we will, of course, see how the construction market might contract next year, because in the meantime, during this corona crisis, all the decisions were very clearly on the ice. Nobody made investment decisions, nor did the private sector do, nor did the housing or office space. Nobody made decisions. A criminal picture of the construction sector receives a record amount of VAT. But for a very simple reason: they end objects. Taking away objects, selling, paying VAT, not picking up new items, or paying input VAT, no netting. It's warm for a second. I think there's a lot of VAT, but there's a big black hole. This is a serious headache, but I do not see, fully realisticly, that the country is currently able to take on the construction market, not to mention the EUR 1 billion. I don't think there's such a political readiness.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U188	Ladies and gentlemen, Manager break, five minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U189	All right, ladies and gentlemen, let's continue. Break taken by the manager is over. The next questioner is Andres Sutt, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U190	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm coming to the health fund's financial health. You yourself mentioned here, in response to one question, that the sickness fund should not be bankrupted. I agree with you very much. And in answer to Keit Pentus-Rosimethus, you said that the deficit number in the Health Insurance Fund will cure it. I understand you're not a very prognosis. But if we take the same budget and the same budget forecast and the Health Insurance Fund's financial situation, the deficit in the Health Insurance Fund for the next four years will be over EUR 500 million. I'm sure there's a decent finance minister who has a plan to get rid of this deficit, and I'd like to know what the plan is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U191	Thank you. Yeah, it's true what you said I thought this forecast was too pessimistic. But I don't know, the prognosis is the prognosis: some go right, some go one way, some go the other way. This minus assumes that we will have long-term high unemployment and wage stagnation in the coming years, which I think is a slightly gloomy view of our economy as a whole. But this might happen. And indeed, if we have numbers like these on the counter, as the background here was, the Health Insurance Fund's own reserves are in the order of 200 million, they get through in less than two years or a year and a half, then there are different options. Today's coalition has not agreed on any broader reform of the health system or any wider reform of the financing of the health system. I am quite frank: if it were up to me alone, I would certainly think about how to boost the private market and competition and to mobilise private money through some kind of private insurance scheme. But if you don't want to do that, there are two ways to go about it: do we try to cut the cost side of this system in any way or bring more revenue? There are also many options: whether the patient's own participation is increased, the availability of some procedures is reduced, the entire price list makes some sort of factor multiplication in order to reduce costs, these options have been used here in previous years in previous crises. They all actually have the same consequence, one and the same problem: access to treatment for people is basically decreasing. That's what we're all trying to avoid. But no, I'm not so pessimistic that I'd think in the next few years we'll have a half-billion-dollar hole in the Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U192	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U193	Thank you. Good minister! In response to the question of Urve Tiidus about loans, which means that the loan does not have to be paid back at all, you pointed out, for example, that the Swedish real estate market works in this way, that the loans are rolled over all the time and that they are simply new loans and that everything works. I therefore have the question: if the real estate market does work like this, what is the reason why the government had to lend 39,4 million working capital loans to Porto Franco, which is just one real estate item that, by this logic, probably would have gotten the loan very well on the market, because that is how the real estate market works?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U194	Thank you. One word: market failure. The entire Estonian banking market was in the first half of this year, and is in fact still, in principle, in a market failure. Having met entrepreneurs, it is said exactly the same thing that the loan is granted only to those who do not need the loan. If a loan is granted, the terms of the loan are such that the loan does not save anything but goes bankrupt more. It's called a market failure. And to overcome the market failure, we have created KredEx. As I said at last week's government press conference, the problem for me is that Porto Franco got the money. For me, the problem is that ten more of the same companies have not received them. I would like KredEx's money, which we have allocated, and it is very large money, with an additional budget of 1.3 billion, to reach the real economy, to actually reach the private sector, different sectors. Then there would be no question as to why one received, or why the other did not receive, or whether the receivings were related to simultaneous donations. I would just like those items that we can support or whom we can lend on reasonable terms to be much more. And if it worked, the banking loan side would be working properly again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U195	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U196	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You have repeatedly said that you do not believe in forecasts and that everything that goes beyond this day is vague. Okay, so we could talk about next year's budget. In this context, I did not quite understand why you were constantly talking about a long future on the ground of costing, and in the case of unpleasant things, you said that you did not understand at all and that you should not talk at all, because we do not know what the future will bring. You could have confined yourself to this year's budget, not to talk about the RES. But I will ask a quick question: why are you also talking here about the European Union's instruments for the next period, which are not known to be locked and which, according to your own ministry, will at best happen in the second half of next year? I stress the words 'in the best case'.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U197	Why I'm talking about MFF money or the recovery fund is they keep asking questions. I'd be happy to answer if they ask. I believe, I do not believe, I have rather emphasised that there is a great deal in these forecasts. The confidence rate is very wide. Maybe it goes right, maybe it doesn't go right, maybe it goes one way, maybe it goes the other way. In such a situation, it does not take too much time to get caught up in these forecasts. Of course, some control information they give us, some direction, some range. And predictions are not a matter of faith. We're looking at these projections and let's say that okay, one forecast says that, another forecast says that, something completely different. Well, we'll have to make some choices on its surface. Now the question of the RES is why did we even come here with the RES when we're actually focusing on the next year? That's a good question. It was once even during the debate on whether we could make sense in this situation even in the autumn, now, to do the RES. Let's just skip the RES this year and do what we normally do next spring. But when we drilled the law, we came to the conclusion that no, we still have to do it. And then we'll do it. The detail of the country's budgetary strategy does not really require us to write down every cent. It is still a strategy, like a great framework. And everyone also knows that the RES is made every year and is amended every year. Moreover, afterwards, we are changing the budget numbers, the output gaps, the size of GDP itself. In recent years, it has happened several times that we will receive a completely different number after we have knocked in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. I don't think there's supposed to be any false attitude in this regard. That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U198	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U199	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! My question is about financing local roads. The budget for next year will have a decline of almost 50% compared to this year if the budget for that year, together with the additional budget, was 59,3 million. There is case-by-case support for parts with some kind of business or transit lines. Why does this bulk decrease or go back to years ago? And why can't it be case-by-case with it: all in one pot, all equally? You can do the same thing from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U200	Thank you. With the construction of roads, I have already pointed out this once in another context, that since the additional budget for 2020 also allocated very large additional resources to local authorities, and specifically to road construction, when we put 2021 alongside 2020 there will be an optical picture as if we had less funding. Actually, it's not. If we compare to 2019, there will still be growth. Just in the meantime, there was one year of extraordinary extra money, a one-off extra money allocation, which went a long way. I would say that I have been driving around Estonia a lot this year, and there are as good roads as there are in Estonia today, I don't know, I don't think there have ever been. In this sense, I have received a great deal of feedback from the local authorities, who were very pleased with this. There will be 20 million local roads next year, in addition to these case-by-case roads, which you have also pointed out. Road construction funds will not decrease for local authorities, but will increase next year. Just this comparison with 2020 when significantly higher extra money was given gives the impression that it would be a decline.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U201	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U202	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, dear waitress, for your interesting answers so far. We once ran for mayor of Pärnu together, and whoever became mayor of Pärnu in 2009 is sitting here among us. We talked a lot about the prosperity of Pärnu. Now I'm back and forth on the budget, and here these are the tails of projects in previous years. One intersection, and the Pärnu airport Kadri Simson promised to build when Lelle was shut down. You said earlier that there were no projects. For four years we have had [this] Prime Minister. I understand you mistrust the Prime Minister for four years and no projects. But in Pärnu, the Defence League house still has a project. Can't you consider the long-term implementation of the building project promised to the Pärnu Defence League if you don't have any other projects anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U203	Thank you. Pärnu's life is good. There's a very good coalition there, by the way. I hear they're building a bridge there. In addition, Pärnu will receive a large multimodal gym next year. Then, in some kind of kindness, they give money to that art marina. Significant additional funds were allocated to the Ministry of Defence, including for investments. True, there was no sign on this extra money to get the Pärnu Defence League building done with it. Yes, given the difficult debate we had over where this money was supposed to go, I did not dare to go to the Pärnu Defence League building to set conditions. However, I have the impression from discussions with the Minister of Defence that they will build a very large number of such buildings next year. I can't tell you if the Pärnu Defence League house is in there or not in there right now. Anyway, Pärnu is in good shape.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U204	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U205	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! There is a great deal of question here about the freeze of teachers' salaries. On this subject, you say that indeed, the teacher's salary does not rise, but because alcohol duty and excise duty on fuel have fallen, the purchasing power of the salary will increase. A highly cynical suggestion. When we look at what our households are spending on, when it comes to a single teacher of retirement age, imagine the reduction in alcohol excise duty and fuel excise duty. Each wins less than two or even less than one-and-a-half euros per month. If the teacher's household is a childless household because they spend more on alcohol and fuel, they win less than three euros a month for each article. What's your recommendation to the teachers? What is not consumed and how much alcohol and fuel should be consumed in order to recover the salary increase foreseen by the Minister of Finance? The second question concerns the fact that...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U206	Thank you, one minute is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U207	... you only froze your salary for next year, but the loan burden will rise to 27% next year. So, what's the cost of this teacher raise?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U208	Yeah. Well, I know you don't like the drop of alcohol duty, it's a matter of principle. But in addition to the fall of diesel excise, there was also the fall of electricity and gas excise. Electricity and gas are pure domestic consumption, clean domestic consumption. I understand that we can gloat here, how much this teacher still drinks, but practically everyone in Estonia uses fuel, electricity and gas. And whether it's three euros, two euros, five euros, in any case on the plus side. What I actually referred to earlier was that Estonia has had the greatest fall in prices from European countries. Publicly regulated taxes have played a very important role in this fall in prices, but the fall in prices has also, of course, taken place in other areas, including the service sector. I wouldn't tie up a loan and a future raise. If the question is where the raise comes from, the answer is very simple. Wage increases, no matter what the sector is, the private sector, the public sector, it is a teacher, a savior or a police officer, can only come when economic growth comes. Then you can come. And economic growth comes from where? Right: countercyclical stimulation with loan money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U209	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U210	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Minister of Finance! My question concerns informal care, in particular support for carers, which is very different across Estonia. And they are indeed paid by the local authorities. You probably know that in some municipalities it is EUR 15, in some EUR 25, in some EUR 40 per month instead of a day, as I was asked today whether this support is a day. It was very sympathetic for me when your party promised that the support of informal carers would be dealt with all over Estonia in the run-up to the Riigikogu elections, which could be the size of a minimum wage. And in the spring of 2019, but also in 2020, there was hope, confirmed by Mart Helme, who was in charge of the Prime Minister's duties in Question Time, that this had to be dealt with, this is a very important issue. Not a word in the budget now. There are studies, there are negotiations with municipalities, but 2021 will not change anything in this regard. Are you explaining?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U211	Yeah. Firstly, of course, I must say that I have said here once before that the Minister for Social Affairs has been to the government several times on this subject and has indeed introduced different options, discussed different models, how to finance what to finance, under what conditions. There are very wall-to-wall numbers in the back, starting with a few dozen million, ending with a few hundred million. These are all very money-intensive decisions that should be made. The fact is that, in today's difficult economic situation, in today's difficult budgetary situation, there are huge additional commitments that no one is opposed to, over which there is no dispute, we simply cannot do so. We can't do this. We've done a pension increase. We've got teeth baptised. We have made some investments, more research funding. But this system, which we have had in Estonia for practically years and years, changing this system, if its price list is at least 30 million euros, we cannot do it now. But we hope that if things get better, we will.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U212	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Here in the budget discussions, there is the impression that there are two budgets. One is what we have here on the tables with specific numbers and themes. And then there's some kind of budget with the Tallinn Hospital and the highway built in PPP form and with loan money and European money. No one has seen this other budget. It's kind of like it's somewhere, but it doesn't really exist, so you can tell me anything that's in it. But I'm gonna ask you a few specific questions. You said earlier that the same PPP, the slippery Nurme section, will be built next year. I looked at Ernst & Young's analysis, and there are different deadlines. Are you sticking to what you said? It says here in the verbatim that the construction of this pilot project will start next year. That's the first question. And the second question is as follows. You said that EUR 5 million for four-way road design is enough. How many kilometres of 2 + 2 highways can be designed for 5 million euros? You have tools, too, you can answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U214	Of course, I can tell you anything, it's the custom of our party to say anything. It's like a problem for some people. This other budget, it's not a secret thing. They have all been said; they have been introduced in the Commission. We had a team from the Ministry of Finance to introduce euro money in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It's not a mystification, it's a very specific thing in specific funds. Bigger things have been brought out one by one, more schedules. Why aren't they in this budget? A very simple reason. Until they are finally locked in Brussels and brought to this Chamber of the Riigikogu and confirmed, we cannot say that they are firmly established. But the pre-negotiations that have taken place give us the assurance that the things that we have talked about are the same Tallinn Hospital or some road constructions or the constructions of some other hospitals or the same border guard helicopters that we have spoken about, we do not see that there will be any major glitches. We have no reason to believe that there has been no alarm bells to make sure that these things could somehow get clogged up. The time frame of the PPP is that, to be honest with Ernst & Young, I would say that in Ernst & Young's analysis, there were a number of places that I did not think met our initial task or what we wanted or what we talked about. They were talking about some other subject, and I don't think they understood exactly what our plan of work was. But maybe it was an employer's mistake that he couldn't explain well. We have commissioned an additional analysis of the profitability of the PPP, which says that the PPP is actually much more cost-effective than Ernst & Young's analysis said. And the schedule is that there should be a consultant at the beginning of next year. The consultant is starting to negotiate, already putting together a real construction project, that is, to talk to the builder. He's the one who's supposed to get us a builder and help us make a deal. This can be a relatively time-consuming process, as the agreement itself has thousands of pages of legal text, financial obligations, etc. But in an optimistic scenario, it is not at all impossible that, towards the end of next year, we are starting to reach the goal of building. It's always possible that I won't make it this fast, I've repeatedly been disappointed in my optimistic scenarios, but that's the goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U215	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U216	Thank you. Mr. Minister! If you look at page 333, which is the financing plan for the national budget strategy 2021 to 2024, there is a heading called the supranational revision, where there is a very strong negative sign of 2022 to 2024, i.e. somewhere around a billion for a total of three years. Among them, 260 million for supranational reviews in 2022. Would you open up a little bit of this: what is planned to do inside it, and does it include, for example, the topic "Citizen associations and their funding"? You haven't opened much of your favorite subject yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U217	Exactly, it belongs there, too, of course. We had the same thing this year: the Ministry of Finance did calculations where it took together the unspent money during the corona crisis, outbounds, trainings, heating costs, transport costs reductions. It was already apparent from it alone that the public authorities actually have a lot of this fat or buffer. On the other hand, all ministries ran to the Ministry of Finance with additional requests that they needed to buy new machines to set up teleworking, and that information and communication costs increased, health costs, deso tools and everything else. In the end, it was agreed not to take away the money they had left, nor to start giving them more money when they had extra costs, but to manage themselves. During the process of making the state budget, there was also talk about the possibility that we are overreacting in such a way that we raise investment and wage costs, and in all other costs, such as economic costs, which are not wage costs, and subsidies, or subsidies, which are passed on, some percentage. Whether this percentage is two or this percentage is eight, that's the deal, that's just going to change the amount. Let's make a cut like that. The debate concluded that such a cut is too mechanistic, that it hurts some people and that some people are left with more money than they need. It was agreed that before next year's RES, we're going to do the ministry after the ministry, spend a row of spending, and see where we can save. And 260 million, if we're actually going to take it, it's completely achievable money. Of course, there may also be a situation where, in spring next year, we will have a more generous forecast for a country's budgetary strategy than it is now, and a lower need for cuts. Far away we go with our cut, who knows? But it's achievable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U218	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The question of funding for local authorities, the share of income tax, in particular. At the beginning of the crisis, you too were the one who said not to cut wages, make investments, and you have also said here today that it is the public sector that should make investments and support the private sector. What has happened, however, is that in my view, in the previous country's budget strategy, the share of income tax had to increase from 11.96 to 12.16 and from there to 12.18. Now the next four years will still be 11.96 percent of income tax. And likewise, the so-called frozen is this fine-tuning fund. Maybe my question. In fact, local authorities will need money in the coming years, anyway, their budget will decrease from a fall in tax revenue due to unemployment. How are they supposed to cope? And what about the logic of injecting money through local governments into the economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U220	Thank you. This year, as you know, we gave additional budgets to local governments in many different ways. 30 million we gave in order to stabilise the loss of revenue, it turned out that these revenues did not actually decrease in this way. In the eight months of 2020, the income tax receipts of local governments have increased by 3.5%, not at all. There are few municipalities where revenue has decreased, but the overall picture is that revenue actually increased in 2020. With this budget, which is currently under discussion, the revenue of local governments will also increase in 2021. And, let's say, this pre-crisis level of income tax revenue returned to local governments a few years ago. In addition, the Local Government Equalisation Fund will grow to EUR 107 million next year. There will be 1.3 billion local governments in total, which is at the same level as 2019 and 2020, given the drop we made and this year there will be no cuts, and next year we will not reach exactly pre-crisis levels, which in fact means that their money has not been cut, their income has been the same all along, in the meantime, even the money has been added. In this sense, local authorities reacted very cautiously; some even started to make cuts in budgets here; there was no real need for this. Local authorities will end this year with a surplus of 90 million, which, by the way, is 130 million more than we predicted. So if we think about giving them 130 million extra budgets in different ways, that's what they've essentially put in their cheeks, into stocks. And we have the same extra money for roads and transit routes. The local authorities certainly did not have any cuts, rather the money is increasing. They do not increase as much as they were expected before the crisis, but other growths are smaller elsewhere. But I come back once again to the fact that the overall financial position of local authorities is actually very good. They will have fewer loans, and this year they will definitely decrease. Next year, we expect their loan volume to increase to the order of 50 million. It has been taken from the experience of previous years that in the election year local authorities are making a lot of investments and it is nice to cut tape there in September. This will certainly stimulate the economy. But the overall debt burden of local governments is low and decreasing. I remember we actually raised a loan ceiling for local governments with an extra budget. It wasn't necessary at all. And the feedback from the local government leaders with whom I have been communicating is that the municipalities are very grateful that their money has not been attacked in this crisis, but is actually supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U221	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U222	Thank you, Deputy Speaker! Mr. Minister! You have stressed in your previous answers that there will be no wage increases next year, except for pensioners, which is very grateful. But we certainly have a number of areas that really need a little push. One such area is the rescuers. The rescuers have also turned to the National Defence Committee for support; they have submitted their request to the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the pay of the rescuers next year should be at least the average of Estonia. This is the only area that is getting less than Estonia's average wage in the field of internal security today. If we can imagine how important they are in dealing with emergencies, civil crises, there is no way we can do this without them. The Committee on National Defence unanimously supported this request so that the Committee on Monetary Affairs could find this money. Do you support this request? It's about 16.7 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U223	Yeah, thanks! I do not dispute absolutely, I also think that the wages of the rescuers are shamefully low, and that is why it has been helped here with very long steps in recent years. The rise in the wages of the rescuers has still been around a few ten percent over the last few years, which, given the low level, of course, is not too much. The problem is, as I explained here once, that it is all in the set, it is in the set in terms of the budget, and it is in the political set. If we say 15 million to the rescuers, the Minister of Education will come and tell the teachers 15 million, when the Minister of Education says to the teachers, the Minister of Culture will come and say to the cultural workers, and that's how these dominos all go. And then it's not just $16 million, but then we're on some $60 million raise. I am quite frank: I do not see how we can sell it to the public in the current situation, where there are a number of sectors where there is mass redundancies, a whole series of sectors where wage cuts take place. So what's the argument? Freezing, I think, we can figure it out. The private market does not rise, wages stand, no one gets poorer because of inflation, no one stays behind in the labour market because wages are rallying elsewhere. But in today's economic situation, in today's labour market situation, I can't imagine how we're selling to those who don't get paid, or to those who lose their pay, or to those who lose their job, in the public sector. There is, of course, a question of political balance here too, isn't there? We do not just have the Minister of Education, the Minister of Culture, the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Defence; they are also each in a separate party. And if one party gets 15 million and the other one doesn't, or one party has such ministers that they get 30 million and the other coalition partner doesn't get anything, it's very difficult to reach such an agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U224	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U225	Thank you. European Union funds in the social field have been used to pilot good intentions. If they have succeeded, they will be transferred to the state budget at the end of the period. The first government of the Ratas before your common government was, for the first time, state services, aids for people with adult disabilities, and also a way to cover the European Social Fund. In fact, to say that years from now, seven years from now, the time when we start looking for cover for services and funding from the state budget is incorrect. For example, the 6.1 million ESF funds I have mentioned for services for children with disabilities next year, this option will end as early as 2022. So you can't make generalisations like that. My question relates a little to Kalle Laanet's question in the following area: sisters. Hospitals get a lot of infra-materials. But what is the situation of nurses if we say we can't raise wages because they're being laid off in another sector? We're in demand for nurses, at least 4,000 short. Why do we not make this job more attractive through wage increases so that people can receive both jobs and decent rewards? Has the government thought about this and, in the budget, not just hospital infra [bedding] in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U226	Well, if you're saying that during the previous government, if I remember correctly, there was a Minister of Ossinovski and he was good at drawing the scheme. If you say it ends in 2022, that's the money of the end period that's gonna roll off. And this is, of course, these specific projects-programmes, the Ministry of Social Affairs field. I'm not prepared to go in there. I'm just reminding you that the nurses also got a raise last year. And the fact that we do not reduce the cost of health care through the Health Insurance Fund will also help hospitals to have a line in their wage policy within their budgetary resources. I'm just pointing out that your own party associates have been here on several occasions, and from a number of angles they've been scolding us for taking on too much debt. At the same time, however, you would like us to raise teachers' salaries, nurses' salaries, savior's wages and everything else, in fact, these two things don't come together. Yeah, I understand there are priorities. But it's just that we can't be guilty at the same time that we didn't raise our wages and at the same time be guilty of taking on too much debt. In this sense, one of these two must give in. The priorities of this government are, in fact, very clear in this budget. I can revisit the priorities: developing the hospital network, developing infrastructure, developing internal security, developing national defence and increasing pensions. Very clear priorities!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U227	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U228	Thank you. Good waitress! First of all, my recognition that you praised how, even after you have completed your budgets, Estonia is still the country with the lowest debt burden. Of course, it was possible to read praise to our predecessors. Praise and thanking the pre-goers is always a sensible plan. Estonia was in such a good position, even you have not managed to drive it completely out of balance. But I ask about the other half of this budget: what does the taxpayer get in return for his money? By repeatedly answering questions today and in your initial speech, you will read things that are not included in the budget: hospitals, helicopters, powerful things all! But it's an epic bluff because if you read this black white bill in front of us, it doesn't say it. Please, I'll give you a chance to disprove it, show me the place where the Tallinn Hospital is written, and take as another random example the same ambulance helicopters you've talked about several times. Where do they say they are?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U229	First of all, you can cheer yourself up for the poor grooming. Don't shout, we'll make it. If we want to, we'll make it. But I've told you many times, they're not even here. It doesn't have to be, it can't be. That doesn't mean we have to worry that they won't come. They have been negotiated, planned, coordinated with Brussels will come. But there aren't any in this budget, that's not the bill. They really aren't here. And I don't have to be ashamed of it. It's no shame. They're in a different place. They'll be here. No, they're not in the budget. But they'll come. That doesn't mean that if they're not here, they won't come. You understand that, don't you? Or is someone arguing back? The euro will come, after all. Euro money must be spent and spent. We have plans, projects, programs. I guess they're coming. Don't worry! It's grabbing the straw so they don't exist and they don't come. They're still coming. At the elections, we get votes for them, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U230	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U231	Minister, thank you very much. I have a further question about what has already been asked many times, i.e. the salaries of the teachers, the salaries of the medical staff, the wages of the rescuers, etc. When we talk about the fact that wages are frozen in any payroll, there is an alternative approach such as public reform. Political parties have spoken about this much before the elections. And now, in times of crisis, perhaps the right time to reduce [costs] is not talking about the whole public sector, but about the costs of governance, about the state apparatus as such. Where are the cuts?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U232	Thank you. It was a conscious choice that we wouldn't cut this year. It was a conscious choice that we would not cut down on the bottom of the crisis. It is part of the fact that we are not going to deepen the crisis. It is not economically rational activity, that we are creating more unemployment in the midst of the crisis, that we are cutting down on investments that we are currently receiving at a cost of 10 to 15% less than a year ago. Today's public procurement shows that construction procurement is 10 to 15% cheaper than a year ago. And then we should cancel them now, go deeper in the crisis, then climb out of this crisis for ten years with the torture that was said here before, and then start working for three times more expensive money. Well, it's not rational! However, there is one cut in this budget. That is what I said in my introductory speech. With savings in management costs, we take out over 10 million, each ministry has to reduce its management costs by 1.7% and channel it into IT investments in the same area. I understand it's not a world-changing huge cut, but it's one of the ways that we've found a place to save our lives to do something where money is also screaming for. But as the RES says, whatever this page was, Ivari Padar told me here earlier, we're making cuts. We are going to make cuts next year on the RES, because we expect that in 2022 we will reach the stage of growth. Can this be called a state reform, but certainly no one is questioning me either, and I do not dispute that, even if the economy is in the north, there is always such unreasonable spending in the public sector from where to sum up. There's no question about that. It is simply a question of whether it is reasonable to do so now, in today's economic situation, or not. And as I said before to Jürgen Ligi, it is not that, at any time and no matter how much deficit you need to spend, but in a countercyclical way, in a time of recession, you have to spend in deficit. And just like all the investments we're planning here, all the recovery funds, MFF money, budget money, going into the economy, we have a real chance that in a few years we'll have a boom, overheating. So let's cut it. It's nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U233	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U234	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am asking about the same thing that I asked about on the previous item concerning the corrupt legal aid agreement with the American law firm. I thought you said the money in this budget wasn't in next year's budget because it's coming from the reserve. My question was how he would come from the reserve if the reserve was to finance unforeseen costs. You said it was government discretion. In the meantime, I read the basic law on the state budget, which is your Bible, and §58 (1) states: "The Government of the Republic reserves can be used for unforeseen expenses and investments that cannot be planned in the process of processing the draft state budget. " It is known in advance that this corrupt agreement will cost you next year. These costs can be planned in advance. Why aren't they in this budget? In what way is this in line with § 58 of the Basic Budget Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U235	I say it again: it's slander, if you call it a corrupt contract, slander, lying, don't do it, it's not pretty. We cannot say how much these costs are, because the costs are activity-based, according to the legal aid agreement. If there's any activity, there's, uh, how much are these sums, we don't know. We can't say. We have a spot of expense, but we can't tell you what the costs will be. And the practice has been quite different than that of § 58. The practice is that if the government decides to make some kind of expenditure, it takes it out of that reserve, and that's the way it's been. It's been done while you were in the government, and it's done while we're in the government, and it's done after us again. It is always possible for the government to put money in a special-purpose reserve, to do so with a'money tag'. The government always has a maneuvering room like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U236	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U237	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Finance! For the sake of clarity: aids have never been an area of the Minister for Health and Labour; they are an area of the Minister for Social Affairs and, fortunately, the IRL was in the previous government and is in today's. The aids have not been the area of Evgeny Ossinovsky. It's just for clarification and for future information. Now, on several occasions, you have emphasised the rise in pensions, and that is very good. In fact, the risk of relative poverty for older people, 65 and older people is extremely high compared to the rest of the population. The proportion of individuals over 65 years of age in relative poverty is particularly high: it is 78.4%. So the rise in pensions is very commendable. The increase in the annual coefficient for children is also commendable. The following is worried: yesterday eight children's mother called and complained that the money for the children would rise, and the pension would rise, but the income tax would take it all back to a very large extent. Have you ever thought about this was the question I asked Solman today, too, so that the money received for children would not be taxed at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U238	Thank you. After all, it has been clear from the beginning that this income tax system has been fixed in time and is in the way of income growth. We wanted to exempt the average pension from income tax last year. A year ago, we were told that such an IT solution could not be done so quickly. And this year, we didn't discuss this plan like that, even though it's really necessary. I'd still like to take a second look at it from a different angle. These increases, which will increase incomes, including different benefits, when people reach the 500th limit and then become income tax, must, of course, be borne in mind that this income tax comes from every euro that is over 500. If you get 520, you will pay 20 euros of income tax, which is not a very large amount and will not eat them up. Secondly, of course, we have to ask more philosophically: from what point in time the income of a person is large enough or small enough to be subject to some form of social solidarity in the form of tax payments. I don't have that answer. But I don't think it's quite the case that we have a certain number of people who never have any tax liability. It's not like that. It is not a solidarity society either. So that's the tricky part.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U239	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U240	Thank you. My last question goes on. Perhaps it is not quite accurate that local authorities do not have a reduced income base at all. After all, according to the country's budget strategy, local authorities have also made their budget strategy for four years, and if they have planned the collection of 12.16 and 12.18 tax percentages there, it will remain at 11.96 so that cuts will still have to be made and done. That's where I'd come back to the teachers' salary. The country has said it will be frozen for four years. This is also likely to mean that if the local government's income base does not rise and rather falls at the expense of unemployment, the local government itself will not have the capacity to add to the pay of teachers. And if the pay of teachers does not rise, there is probably no resource and there is no way to miss the pay of kindergarten teachers and other support professionals. At the same time, these people are always missing. How do you see this long plan in the Estonian educational landscape? Where, then, do we get these educated and well-educated teachers to school when a large number of them leave the labour market and are not motivated by our salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U241	What I said before, when I answered this question about local government funding, was that growth is slower, their "income growth" is slower than in previous years or earlier. And it's true. I also said that four years of freezing is not right. We have not talked about a four-year freeze, we are talking about public wages being frozen in next year's budget. So that's what we've been saying here all the time for four years, but it's really the opposition. And for kindergarten educators, the state puts [to], that was 15 million, if I remember correctly now, which the state put in support for the kindergarteners to pay 90% of the teacher's salary, or what the Ministry of Education has. This money will continue to be paid, which is not a small amount of money. Now, if you ask me what this big smart plan is to get more workers in this sector in an ageing society, to get more young people, I don't have any big plan to present right now. It's more like explaining the minister in this area. We all know that this is not the only sector where this problem is. Exactly the same concern exists in all other sectors, both the private sector and the public sector. We have the same problem with the judges. We also have the same concern with builders, even strawberry growers, and there is the same concern everywhere that there are no workers, and this employer is competing for these very few people in this labour market. Overall, I think that in the coming years or decades we will be faced with a kind of new technological leap where this simpler workforce will be less needed. They're getting their hands off. The challenge for the country is how to make these people available on the labour market in areas where there is a shortage, perhaps, I don't know, figuratively how this cashier, who is replaced by a cashier, an automatic cashier, how he can become, I don't know, a kindergarten teacher or a teacher. It's the role of the state, isn't it? Of course, wage policy has a role to play here, but retraining also has a very important role to play.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U242	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U243	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Minister of Finance Martin! We are making a budget for COVID today, and I think we have the opportunity to change a little bit about the lifestyle and location of Estonian people. Six months ago, we saw how many people moved to the country, did their work from the country, and what we all wanted to do, so that we do regional policy, people are not concentrated in big cities. But many people now in the fall have still moved back to the city, for a very simple reason: there is no good internet to do a job that would help children get their things taken away at school, etc. All of this could be done with the last mile of the app, four million this year only or five, carried there, if we had the capacity to realise the last mile for 25 million this year. Why so little, did Siem ask for more?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U244	After all, an extra budget of 15 million was added. We've put in 20 million before, which has gone through Elektrivi. But this year, 15 million more were added, and the sad fact is that of this 15 million in essence, nothing has gone into use yet. Because its sharing between different online providers has started in essence only in September or early autumn. This 15 million will be added to another 10 million next year. And it is possible to put much more money into it than UCITS. If we wanted this seriously and took it seriously, we would be able to take the internet to virtually every last forest cabin in the next few years. At the moment, we can see that this is still beyond the capacity of the supplier. Those companies that wire there like that to drag them in there aren't able to spend that money. The sad fact is that this money has not been able to be mobilised so far, it is and is standing and waiting for it to be done. And that, of course, is a wider problem. Even if we put the money on the table, those who come out to shovel it aren't really. Or not shoveling fast enough. This internet doesn't really reach these people. All the money that Bear and Siem have asked for in the spring and autumn, we have said that if there is the ability to spend it, then so much we are willing to put there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U245	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U246	Thank you. The 2019 Coalition Agreement includes the objective of an increase in the wages of rescuers. You have stood very strongly for complying with certain points in the coalition agreement. I wonder if the Minister for the Interior has not been able to justify the need for the rescuers to raise their wages, because this is his area. And just like you say that we're not actually raising incomes, but pensions are being raised, so someone had more capacity to justify it. My question is whether the Minister of the Interior could not justify this need to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U247	Thank you. Internal security is clearly a priority in this budget. In addition to continuing border building, money goes to the internal defence reserve, buys three new medical helicopters, cleans up or gives a new life cycle to the current three helicopters, procures new flight crews, procures a new border guard ship for 40 million euros and continues, let's say, building joint buildings between the PB and the Rescue Board. Even the hood gets a new house. So the internal sector with this budget gets very, very big money. Part of this money, true, is in this invisible euro budget, but money is money. And the police, as we know, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board got a raise last year, and they got a raise last year. And as I explained, no matter what area we would have taken up, it is internal security, protection, cultural workers, teachers, and told you that we are giving you, we cannot say that we are not giving them to others. It is not politically easy to do. Given that the cost of living does not rise, given that there has been a considerable wage increase in the last few years, given that there has been a huge amount of money in the area of internal security in other places, the Minister of the Interior agreed with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U248	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U249	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! Somewhere six months ago, maybe even longer, it was Aivar Kokk who established the term "insurable loan" in the Riigikogu. And then, after he got corrected on this subject, he apologized in advance and back, said that there was still no refundable loan and he was misunderstood and so on. I see that you have developed this subject and you are already talking about a non-refundable loan, giving examples of Sweden. Sweden has usually been between your teeth in the first place, but in recent days we have heard only good news: there are certain types of people living happily in Sweden. And now it turns out that in Sweden, loans are not paid back either. But I have a paper in front of me: I just wrote it out that depreciation in Sweden is 1% to 3% if you borrow real estate on collateral. In case you don't pay back that money, you're gonna lose your real estate. That's the "unrefundable loan." But my question to you is: how much will the Estonian state pay next year to service its earlier and current loans with interest and depreciation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U250	Thank you. Yeah, well, Sweden's got teeth... On the contrary, I believe that Sweden was highlighted here as a very advanced country where everyone who likes can go. And with that real estate example, you confirmed what I said: the loan will not be repaid, but if you fail to service your loan, you will lose everything. I gave this as an example of how this money, which is now being borrowed, is no longer really talking about paying off this loan. Everyone is talking about the need to be able to serve this loan. That you don't owe anybody. You've got a huge debt upstairs, you're paying off your interest rates, but no more. And everyone's happy. This is the world we live in now. That's what I was talking about. Next year, the cost of servicing our loan is in the order of 7 million, a little bit more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U251	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U252	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Finance! There have been some very constructive questions today, half of my questions I want to ask have been asked. As a result, I take this opportunity to ask what may be a very small number of people are interested in. I think there could be 101 of them. One of the state's representative buildings, Toompea Castle, could also be repaired from time to time, and the state of life of Parliament and everything could also be a little more modern, so that the wind should not blow through the window. You know, I used to go to this house when you were in your office, and there were some cotton wool in the window. Will the budget of this house, Toompea building, fall next year? They asked for money, didn't they? We should do some repairs in this house for a moment, too, so we can't afford to bring visitors.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U253	Yeah, I don't think it's just 101 people's problem. The state's representative buildings are a matter of state dignity, and that is one of the reasons why, for example, we are making the Knighthood building a representative building of the state. During the assembly of the budget, the Riigikogu building was also completely renovated on the table, the amount, if I remember correctly, was around 130 million, but I might be wrong at the moment. Anyway, it was quite a lot of money. And the reason is very simple. First of all, there is, of course, a huge complexity of heritage protection here. Secondly, it is necessary to find a solution for moving the Riigikogu somewhere else in the intervening years. There is no solution to this move elsewhere; it must also be created, whatever rooms we create, where we essentially set up a parallel Riigikogu. It's just all such a headache, we don't have a project. No one was anxious to do that. But it is clear that the office of the Riigikogu in a time horizon must be taken, the house is 100 years old and the pipes had to burst. Yes, if the minister sits there in that row on the side of the window and prepares it, and if the wind is at the wrong angle, the neck will be stiff. That's right. But, yeah, it went through, everyone realizes they have to do, the project's expensive. It's just that it's not there yet. When it comes to good questions, you have to come to the hall early.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U254	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U255	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I come back to this question, which was asked earlier, concerning the reimbursement of sick days. What logic is it that you have kept bouncing on this decision, and you see no funding for it in the budget for next year? In the health crisis, all people are put to the heart that if you have signs of disease, please do not go to work, because this in turn threatens others, it can paralyse our economy even more, exacerbate the economic crisis. And you mentioned here that one version was 30 million, looking at all the potential loss of income when the economy stops or the health crisis expands, is actually relatively small. Why haven't you foreseen money in next year's budget? Why can't you agree on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U256	We've had a lot of talk here today about the downside of the Health Insurance Fund. The Health Insurance Fund is in big trouble. The smaller part of the next year will cover the money they take from their own reserves, more or less EUR 18 million, and the country will put more than EUR 140 million. I fully agree with these arguments that, in the context of the corona crisis, it is particularly important that people do not go to work when they are sick. We know that one or two days of not getting paid, especially for people with lower pay, is absolutely an argument. They're still going to work. Besides, the people of Estonia view cold as not a disease. We all understand this problem. But on the other hand, I suppose everyone will understand the problem, too, that if the Health Insurance Fund is forecast to have a minus between 150 and 170 million or so in the coming years, then toss some extra $20 million into it, well, we don't have that readiness. If the system that we have now has been going on for 11 years, in a situation where we already have a big black hole in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, we are not sure that it is responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U257	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U258	Minister, thank you very much. I wanted to specify the funding for science. It is extremely good that, after all, we have arrived where 1% of GDP has been allocated to science. However, as far as I was able to read this document, I understand that the funding of science has gone into a black box at this point. Maybe about 60 million and there's a distribution between different ministries, but where exactly the money goes, this paper doesn't really make sense. Can you look inside the black box with me and let me know where it's going?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U259	Thank you. I guess he's going to a lot of places. It is certainly wrong to believe that R &amp; D money goes only to the Ministry of Education and Research. Not at all! A very large part of it actually goes on the side of the so-called development money, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Some of this money goes to the Ministry of the Environment. Some of that money, by the way, even goes to the Ministry of Culture. It's spread out. And that little over-mystified 1% always gets it afterwards. This is according to the statistical code given by institutions-companies: the number of last year will be broken down, the GDP number will be set aside and the money will be recovered. The way ministries spend this money is also different. Some spend on longer-term public projects, some make rolling project applications, some are direct investment grants. It's a very written picture that comes together. Maybe the real thing is this 280 million is all over the place. This is complemented by private investment in research and development, which we have clearly underreporting in Estonia, because since no company has any motivation to report it, they will not report it at all. In broad terms, I agree that it is certainly not possible to count the amount from which it comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U260	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U261	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The economic situation and economic growth will certainly also be supported by the development of the digital state, and the development of this digital state will be subject to international competition that is unbroken and very strong. According to the OECD index, which measures the state of digital governments, Estonia was the second largest in all countries in 2016. According to the new index that came out a few days ago, we've fallen to 16. According to indicators measuring the state of the digital state, we have basically fallen below the OECD average according to all indicators. The last four IT ministers have been your party associates. My question is, how do you intend to change the state's contribution to the budget for next year, and I am not talking about the contribution of the European Union, but of the Estonian state, and what are you going to do to make up for this absolutely shameful decline?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U262	I do not understand where this derogatory attitude comes from, that euro money is worse than Estonia's own money. On the contrary, it is money taken from someone else's taxpayers' pockets, much better than our own money. It's still Little Peter's bag that needs to be emptied first. The Estonian state finances as a 'base', with a budget size of 190 million euros, which goes to IT heads in different ministries together. 190 million! It's not small money. It's a lot of money. In addition, in this budget, we have been given extra money to digitise the legal cycle. Similarly, digitisation projects are all the last-mile projects where we bring the internet to the door. Different ministries, and here are really over the field of a wide variety of projects, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Social Affairs, even the Ministry of Finance makes various IT investments either for consolidation or for innovation. We are going to have this digital money in very, very large amounts, both through budget, through investment and through euro money. I cannot comment on these OECD or whatever comparisons. I do not dispute that Estonia has in some respects remained a bit in the comfort zone with the image of its digital state. We have a problem that, since, above all, thanks to the motivation of new investments with the euro money, we have made a nice new flashing and belled thing every once in a while, which we do not want to know about and whose usefulness is questionable at best. We have some systems next to which another new system will be made, and a third new system will be made next to it. And frankly, one day, we should do a garbage day. Not every system needs to be put in place and not every system needs to be maintained and it should be made clear to itself what these things are, what we need, and what these things are that we do not really need, but what has been done because money cannot be left lying around. Overall, I say that, especially given that the period of the European Union for the next seven years and the re-launch fund place a great deal of emphasis on the digital revolution, there is no lack of money in this area, yes, only a fool cannot do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U263	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U264	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Martin! As a complement to your previous response, I can still state that there are no non-refundable loans, not even in Sweden. And my small calculation shows that if we continue to borrow like this, in a few years' time, Estonia will take some 200 million euros a year to service these so-called non-refundable loans, which is in itself a refund. Objection if you dare. But my question to you comes from some of the questions that have been asked in advance, where someone asked about public subsidies for real estate projects and donations to political parties. Somehow you said somebody saw something in there. But I ask you, do you see any connection between the donation made to the party and the support given by the state to the real estate project?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U265	Thank you. I can't even imagine where you charmed that 200 million out. The Ministry of Finance calculated that, if our debt ratio is 30% by the end of the RES period, the cost of servicing the loan will be close to 20 million, or probably slightly below. I don't know where you're from 10 times the size of... According to your imagination, our loan burden will be 300% of GDP. Even Greece doesn't have that much. Although I understand that you are always talking about how we are doing Greece to Estonia, but no, it does not look like it is all over again. And when it comes to grants and donations, do I see any connection? The connection is that there was a donation, there was support, there was a donation. There's a sequence in the schedule.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U266	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U267	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I come back to the subject of the first question. You're saying the prognosis is sloppy. If there's a budget made from the slop-slop forecasts, it's probably a slop-slop. I wish the budget wasn't sloppy. But you clearly claimed that interest would not rise in the future. But it seems to me as much as a slop-slop forecast, because my personal practice says that if 2006 was told that real estate prices might also fall, most people told me, it is not possible, because they have always risen. Doesn't it seem to you that such a slopp-down on forecasts and budgets is not appropriate for a single Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U268	Thank you. It seems to me that it would be even less appropriate if I were to try to give the impression that we have an enormously accurate estimate here that we know exactly where we are going, because it is not true. Of course, I would like our forecasts and budget to be much smaller. In recognition and praise of the forecasters and analysts of the Ministry of Finance, I must say that in general they have been very close to the truth, the decimal places here and there. But no one has experienced an economic situation like this. At least not, I don't know, in the last 70 years or more, in 100 years. In this situation, it's perfectly understandable that we're actually going to have slop-slop budgets and slop-slop forecasts. And I would say that it would be better if there was a mistake or error or an error like this, as it was in 2020, where we made a prognosis very strongly our first forecast was vexed. Then another forecast was made, but in fact the first forecast was closer to the truth than the second forecast. And the mistake of this second forecast has in some ways been in our favor. Tax receipts have been significantly better, costs have been lower and the economic downturn has been smaller and the labour market is in a better position. The fact that we have a big shot inside of the forecast, we just have to accept it, in the current situation, we just have to accept it. Let's try to cope somehow, and we're grateful or happy that this lot has been in our favor. But we realize that we cannot speak of these things in a specific way. As regards the increase in interest rates, I might say in a specific way that, at the level of the debt burden that other large countries have, if now these interest rates do not even have to rise much, they will rise to a few per cent, then there will be Armageddon. Our debt situation and service is such a minor concern that then we will have no financial system to predict anything about. It gives me the assurance that this will not happen. Nobody wants that. Everyone's terrified of it. This means that all concerned have a very strong incentive to ensure that interest rates are low.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U269	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U270	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I have a quite specific question. The budget has one excellent item for the Jõgeva Church. You've remembered that with a good word before. So how did it happen to be included in the budget? Is this the influence of some deep state, or how do you comment on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U271	I would like to comment on this by saying that the state has made a very, very large amount of investments in the same order of magnitude, local investments. The same football halls we're gonna do next year: we're gonna do three or four new football halls. We give money to cultural objects: Tallinn City Theatre receives around 3.5 million euros. The same Pärnu that he was, the floating museum or what they call it, the art port of the place is given money. The state makes such investments, from time to time, even in the private sector, from time to time they are public. All the projects we have to promote the county centres. I asked what was going on with the church. The answer is, it's a community center. Well, I haven't been around, I haven't covered the community center: families, seniors, pensioners' associations go there together. And for things like this, we give money everywhere all the time. In fact, this same Riigikogu hall here, if it is now going to make roofies, will also give money to the churches. The amounts may be different. It's like I can't feel it's some kind of really mean money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U272	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U273	Thank you. I will return to the subject of this sick day. I am pleased that you have admitted that this is actually an important issue, it is a possible additional risk of spreading disease outbreaks, as has been said by both Arkadi Popov and the Health Board. And at the same time, you're finding that the Health Insurance Fund is already down, and you can't take that extra cost. Have you made calculations that are an alternative cost in reality when the disease begins to spread and we cannot control it? We have around these figures oi in many countries, how the second wave goes very quickly uphill. This means exactly the same loss of payments for millions of euros, i.e. no turnover for institutions, i.e. the cost of the social system through the unemployment fund, through social benefits, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U274	Yeah, well, not even millions, but hundreds of millions, in the form of lost taxes, as we see this year. We know that this alternative cost is very high. And this year, with an additional budget this year, we allocated 7 million for the same sick days. In a crisis situation, during an emergency, it was paid. That money must have taken practically everything, if I remember correctly, 6.7 million. But it was only a month and a half. So that we understand what this order of magnitude is: if we did this measure for a month and a half and it is nearly 7 million, and if we now do it permanently for a year, it is not a small amount of money. But, yeah, I'm not arguing with those arguments here and there. It's not just that it's a cost line, and if we do, we'll save money. If we don't do it, there might be a lot of expense later. As regards the Korona, I would say in general that I think that Estonia has done very well with the corona. We learned to react well in the first wave, to build up our systems and mechanisms when it comes back. We have managed the second wave well today, unlike most other countries in Europe. We should be proud of this as a whole society. And we have the hope that this thing will remain under our control in Estonia. Those places where, due to the corona crisis, either 7 million or 17 million are supposed to be put are oo-ooh-oh how many. Even if we take 2 billion loans, we still don't do all of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U275	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as the second rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U276	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 30 September, 6, 12, 13, 15 and 19 October 2021, the Committee on Finance discussed the preparation of the draft State Budget Act for the first reading. The draft was presented by Mr Helme, Minister of Finance, as representative of the initiators. All other ministers, with the exception of the Minister for Rural Affairs, took part in meetings of the Commission and gave a more detailed overview of the budget for their area of government and answered the questions asked by the members of the Commission. Next year, state budget spending will amount to almost EUR 13 billion and revenue will amount to nearly EUR 11 billion. The difference is due to the necessary investment in economic recovery, which means that the volume of expenditure exceeds the growth in revenue. The volume of government investment will amount to around EUR 1.9 billion next year. The European Union's contribution to the national budget for 2021 is planned at more than EUR 1.4 billion. Tax revenues will grow to EUR 9.3 billion next year, compared to around EUR 9 billion this year. The tax burden will fall to 32.7% of GDP next year, compared to 33.8% this year. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to appoint a rapporteur for the draft committee, to take the draft to the Riigikogu's plenary session by Monday, 19 October, or today, to finish the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, i.e. 2 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U277	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. We can open negotiations. It is possible for representatives of the political groups to take part in the negotiations. Maris Lauri, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U278	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U279	Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Budget Bill 2021 reflects the nature of this government. It's lying, wrestling, delusional. From the very beginning, when the coalition began to introduce the budget. And this was continued by the Minister in this Chamber today. Lies are being reported, even though they're about to get caught. The Riigikogu and the people are probably seen as fools. We have been told that the deficit of almost EUR 2 billion comes from investment. This is wrong because there is no such investment. There are less than a billion investments in the state budget. This is combined with investment grants granted to municipalities, different institutions. At the same time, a significant part, about half of the investments in the state budget are covered by European funds for this period. Perhaps the loan is not for investment, as we are constantly being tried to say. There is no Tallinn Hospital, Estonian National Library or anything else in the state budget. These are hopes for European Union funds and re-financing for the next period. These are the things that the Heads of Government agreed on during the summer, but what is currently being debated in the European Parliament, and there is no sense of when the agreement will be fixed and when the process will be reached in such a situation that it will enter the budget of the Estonian state. Because it has to get into the state budget. But the wise guys have already thought that, well, the European Union's money, plus and minus, it doesn't have to be zeroed in, and it doesn't have to be put into the state budget. Maybe they're preparing for a violation of the Constitution. Returning to the objects we are told about, we are talking about a specific Tallinn Hospital. Tallinn Hospital, if it gets funding, but it is not sure at all, is not the biggest problem in Estonian health care. The biggest problem, and to this is all the analyses, is that we have long queues in health care, lack of staff. Extra concrete can make these problems worse. Thus, the budget deficit is not due to investment but to an increase in current expenditure of a lasting nature. Where's it coming from? A lot of things. I'm just pointing to a few of the most deficit areas where we can fix it very clearly. I'm not saying these shortcomings are bad, but I'm saying they exist. More than 150 million euros in the coming years, more than 300 million euros in pensions paid from the state budget, and they tend to grow in the future. If we accept them as a society, how do we cover them? Is it really just the loan money? Forever? Decades? That's not possible. Do we see a correction in other costs? No, I don't. This deficit, the same numbers I gave you, is 13% of the current social tax. Not three, not 0.3, but 13. Maybe if we want to cover, there's one way to raise taxes. I guess we don't really want that. So, what's next? Is there any savings? We don't see it, unfortunately. We have such an interesting minister who has not been able to figure out exactly what he is doing in almost two years. At least that was the way the Commission spoke. And the only line or program he does, alone, concerns the funding of political parties. But then there's a terrible need for a minister. Each government stands on the shoulders of the previous government or on the actions and soup done. The previous government of Jüri Ratas cooked up a soup called a huge deficit of more than EUR 1 billion. And now that the crisis came, there was nothing else to do but take out a loan. The loan is justified in two cases. First of all, if something bad really happens, if we lose revenue, if there are unexpected costs, then we will cover them in the way that happened this year. Secondly, if we make any fundamental reforms, any changes that will give us significant benefits in the future, to revenue, to reduce costs, that is not in this budget. We have not heard at all about the vision of this government and the vision of what we should do in the future. And that's understandable, because this government only lives today, because, as we heard today, everything is sloppy. Spending on money does not solve problems, even though the Minister of Finance thinks so as an economic entity. It can delay problems, the crisis, but it always ends badly. From my professional past, I mention Lehman Brothers, where over a decade, problems were refused to be solved in this particular company, but this was an example, and we received the global financial and economic crisis in 2008-2009. So I don't see this government learning to look to the future. I don't see any sense of responsibility in this budget. All we hear is lying. We're gonna hear the rumblings today and here. The most frustrating thing about this is that we're thought to be fools. As a result, the Reform Party Group proposes to reject the National Budget Act 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U281	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U282	Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U283	Eight minutes in total, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U284	Dear Riigikogu! Tarmo Soomere, President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, said last week in the Estonian Television "In the First Studio": "All crises have one quality was richer and poorer, but society must dampen this polarization to the maximum, so that the weight of the crisis does not lie on the shoulders of the poorer. " In his words, the President of the Academy of Sciences summed up the country's most important task in the crisis. Unfortunately, today's government has not been able to do this when it comes to drawing up the state budget. On the contrary, first of all, care has been taken to ensure that the big and stronger can consolidate their position in the crisis and only then are the smaller and the weaker. In many cases, the mind or desire has probably run out before. This illustrated the behaviour of the government in the spring when drawing up an additional budget, and the same attitude continues today in the autumn. In support of individual large companies with good relations with government departments, instruments are found at lightning speed, but the most vulnerable are left alone in the field. The government's fiscal choices would rather exacerbate social and regional disparities and increase inequality. This is despite the fact that the Ratas government holds an unprecedented amount of money, alongside tax money and euro payments, in the form of billions of loans and a recovery fund. There was nothing comforting about this, nor did Finance Minister Martin Helme offer today's performance in the Riigikogu, who said that yes, sick days should be reimbursed, but it costs money and we have other priorities. We are experiencing a health crisis and it is unacceptable that the government has still not reached an agreement on compensation for the first days of sickness. The cost of such indecision can be very high. Some people are forced to go to work with less serious symptoms because they cannot afford to lose their wages or, for example, to lose out on loan payments. As a result, new outbreaks are possible at the workplace. Our strong and urgent demand is that, in the interests of human health and in the interests of the eradication of the virus, the budget should provide for funds to compensate for the first three days of sickness. A few decades ago, I said from this very speaker that Eesti Pank is worried about the increase in unemployment and the people made redundant more than the government. Unfortunately, that continues to be the case. Maive Rute, Deputy Governor of Eesti Pank, has just pointed out that it is a long winter ahead of us, but there is no evidence of the korona's easing yet, and the real depth of the crisis may only begin to kick out in companies. At the same time, the payment holidays that banks gave massively in the spring due to wage cuts are coming to an end. For many people, therefore, the time has come when things are just beginning to get complicated, Rute warned. Due to the specific nature of the crisis, it is the most vulnerable people in particular that are currently suffering. Among other things, those who worked or work in tourism and related sectors, where wages are often very low. There are many young people, especially young women, among the new unemployed and jobseekers. The well-being of thousands of young families and children growing there is at risk. However, growth in child poverty is a very bad choice. A few years ago, we had a real breakthrough: different steps towards children, led by the rise in child support, resulted in a decisive reduction in child poverty in Estonia. Today, this achievement is on edge. The loss of parents'work, or a third or even a tenth of a salary earlier, can lead to poverty for a number of families and children who grow up there. To prevent children from missing out on these options, all children should be guaranteed free day-care at the expense of the state. While the ministers of the Ratas government have stood out in recent days with unconstitutional and xenophobic statements, the government has also gathered fame in the new budget with a series of strange, not to say, corruption-stricken and indiscretions of money. The most crippling example of the general sense of justice has been the sound of more than a million euros here today to the Jõgeva Church, which, as it turns out, the Lutheran Church did not want and not even the congregation dreamed of. However, the solutions that would help people who have been hit cannot be found in our budget. A clear measure against crisis difficulties would also be to increase the tax-free minimum to the minimum wage. The step would increase the amount of money available to people with lower incomes and perhaps help them to overcome the more difficult moments. Moreover, it would also be morally right to prevent the State from charging income tax on the already minimal income. Not to mention that the average pensions would thus again be exempt from income tax. In my previous budget speech, I commended the government for the extraordinary, albeit limited, pension increase that we are planning. I give you more credit. Otherwise, the elderly have been completely forgotten. The new budget also provides nothing for those who need support from their own carers or various care services or a nursing home to cope with them. It is the duty of the state to provide a nursing home for every person in need of a pension. Today, this burden lies unjustly on the shoulders of the elderly and their loved ones and is beyond the power of many families. The Social Democrats stand in 2021's budget for mitigating the most burning concern of the Estonian social system. The old age of decent people must be more dignified. Estonian teachers recently received news in the cold shower that teachers' salaries remain frozen for four years. There's no way the Social Democrats can accept that. Especially in a situation where we know that the faculty is ageing, this is one of the most serious crimes against Estonian education and the future of our children. Coronary times have already significantly increased the responsibility and workload of teachers. It is the duty of the state to assess this. At a time when different analyses point to the bitter fact that regional inequality has increased further in Estonia, the government wants to deprive our farmers of transitional support. This is also the case with the development of better mobility opportunities, including train connections and the so-called last mile, with thousands of jobs and a better chance of life in the country. In order not only to leave the sheaves as a slogan and as one-sided actions, the new year should start with practical and concrete initiatives that would directly improve our quality of life alongside a smaller environmental footprint. I repeat here: there is now an opportunity to do something really good and pivotal for the benefit of Estonian development and the people of Estonia, to give the economy a new move and to change the structure of the economy. Then why don't we use this unique moment? The Estonian people do not expect lies and hate speech from those in power, insults and humiliation, or division of society. They do not expect the taxpayer to buy favors of dubious value. People expect a dedicated job for Estonia, a fairer and caring society. As the state budget proposed by the government does so, the budget explanatory memorandum clearly shows where forecasts of inequality and poverty-related indicators are not even bothered to update. We get what we measure. If we do not want to measure the indicators related to poverty reduction, it is not possible to follow the idea of Tarmo Finlandre, and the severity of the crisis is still on the weakest shoulders. And that's what this budget does, unfortunately. The Social Democrats therefore propose to reject the state budget for 2021 in the proposed form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U285	Kai Rimmel on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Five plus three minutes, here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U286	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the new year's budget, Estonia will probably be able to emerge faster and stronger than many other countries from the corona crisis and the accompanying recession. Above all, because the economic momentum is continuing. Already in spring, the government reduced taxes, which means a lower tax burden and lower prices next year. There is now a further 1.9 billion additional investments to stimulate the economy, which is nearly twice as high as the previous budget. What are the most important decisions? First, an extraordinary pension increase. If, in the context of economic growth, the pension is automatically rising every year as a result of indexation, the recession caused by the corona crisis would have prevented this increase. The government decided, despite the difficult times, to come to the aid of the elderly, the pensioners. The average pension rises by more than 20 euros, reaching an average of 544 euros. The Reform Party considers the pension increase to be a cost for the state. But if the pensioner does not put extra money in his stockings but buys products or services for it, it will help the Estonian business and economy. Second, a four-way highway. The Minister of Finance has on several occasions already expressed his wish to build four-line highways significantly faster than planned. It is also planned to do this on the Tartu highway, near Pärnu with the PPP pilot project of the Libatse-Nurme road section, and the money is also allocated for reconstruction of local roads. Thirdly, the State will borrow more than half a billion euros to clean up the hospital network. Investments are received from Viljandi Hospital Health Centre and psychiatric clinic, Hiiumaa and Järvamaa Hospital EMOs, PERH, Tartu University Hospital and Ida-Viru Central Hospital. The money injection will help to ensure that the country is ready to help society quickly in a crisis situation. Since most of the newer hospitals are in the counties, it also provides a regional policy boost. Fourthly, Estonian language education for Russian children. More than ever, the new year's budget will be devoted to teaching the Estonian language in kindergartens and schools. The programme "Professional Estonian teacher in a group with Russian language" extends to 50 new Russian language kindergarten groups in Tallinn, Ida-Virumaa, Maardu, Tartu and Mustvee. The programme can support 153 additional teachers in Estonian in kindergartens. This year the program also expanded to primary classes and continues in the new year in Tallinn, Ida-Virumaa and Tartu. If the opposition only creates slogans about common Estonian-language education, the coalition will actually implement the fact that all children in our country speak Estonian well. Fifth, science is given 1% of GDP. The same is true here, as has been said before, today's decision is that researchers will receive EUR 280 million. In addition, there will be a total of €30 million to support the deployment of clean hydrogen technologies in the coming years. It is undoubtedly innovation that has the potential to make our living environment cleaner. EKRE has stood for improving national defence and security, and in the next two years it will be possible to fill one of the most dangerous gaps in capacity to create full coastal defence capabilities. You have also heard of medical helicopters, a border guard ship today, as well as the construction of the border and the creation of an internal defence reserve. It is positive that the current government will not make the same mistakes that the Reform Party government made during the previous crisis more than ten years ago when the austerity and cost reductions started to take place, resulting in 100,000 people leaving Estonia as a result of emigration, and today it is trying to compensate for this exodus with Ukrainian workers. The government deserves recognition that they did not give in to the opposition's demands to take up cuts in the same way, as this would have aggravated the recession caused by the coronavir. The next year's budget will give the economy a boost, which should be won by every person in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U287	Kersti Sarapuu, please, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U288	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have just listened for several hours to the answers of the Minister of Finance to the questions asked. For some reason, in the debate on the state budget, it is as if the opposition's criticism of the government's budget at first reading has become common practice, and the politicians who belong to the coalition are taking down the criticism. This has been the case and will continue to be the case. The state budget for next year is somewhat different from the previous one due to the corona and economic crisis that hit Estonia. Such changes have taken place both in the European Union and in the world as a whole. However, it has not lost the principles of today's government and its desire to make decisions based on the current state of Estonian society and the welfare of our entrepreneurs and the global economy. However, speaking of the budget in question, I would like to start with what is most displeasing to opposition policy. It's a state loan. Yes, in today's state budget project, the budget expenditure for 2021 is close to EUR 13 billion and the revenue volume is close to 11 billion. After all, it is clear that economic recovery requires resources, and in a situation where our good neighbouring countries and the rest of Europe want to cure the economic crisis caused by the corona virus by means of a loan, why should we choose another path? Why should we be the ones who cling to the budgetary balance and who cut back on the services that people need? The wish of today's government coalition, through the mobilisation of additional resources, is to make the necessary investments during a difficult period, to give people jobs and to boost the economic activity of the country. I remember we were at a similar crossroads a dozen years ago. Then the government at the time chose the path of cutting. I also remember as mayor myself when we cut the salaries of all government members as well as the staff of the administration by 15%. Yes, people's belts were tightened for years, and the economy was still in place for a long time. It's a run-through track with painful lessons. The crisis at the time taught that the economy must be stimulated in order to avoid a long-term downturn and a sharp rise in unemployment. The countries that used loan money to invest were successful. Today, too. Today's questions in this Chamber of Riigikogu began mostly by increasing the debt burden and deepening the impoverishment of the state, which is because we are also the country with the lowest debt burden in Europe after the planned borrowing. So the Minister of Finance asked: what is the point of this rhetoric? Why do we lie to the people, exaggerate and scare them? There are a number of important keywords in the budget for the Centre Party, but as one of the first, I would like to point out precisely the pension increase that has occurred here. I am pleased that the government has found these instruments, which will result in an increase of an average old-age pension of more than EUR 20. Yes, this basic pension will increase by EUR 16 and an additional EUR 3.55 for each child. It is also good that the increase in the national pension is 30 euros, so that a pensioner who is under 15 years of age can also receive a higher income than the minimum subsistence. I believe that those in the Chamber also believe that, although it makes sense that the growth of pensions should be accelerated by economic growth, today we note how the scissors of growth pensions and average wages have increased significantly over the last ten years. We see this as a source of pain and our sincere desire to improve the unequal situation in society has arisen. It is also a great satisfaction that next year's R &amp; D funding will reach 1% of GDP, and this will not only be guaranteed next year, but will be written into a budget strategy for four years. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U289	There's more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U290	I dare say that this has been the goal of all of us for years, regardless of our outlook or political affiliation. I am pleased that the situation is improving and we are taking such a signicant step, which has even been seen as the beginning of a new era. Looking at the many calls made by interest groups for wage increases, subsidies amounting to hundreds of millions, it is clear that it is unrealistic to meet all wishes. Such requests are also fuelled by the various draft laws of our opposition and today's questions. At the same time, it is constantly repeated that operating costs may not be covered by the loan. That's what I'm thinking. This principle has also been followed by the government in drawing up the draft budget. Of course, it is our desire to help everyone succeed, but it is inevitable that our opportunities must be respected. I believe that by making the next budget, we can solve various wage and welfare problems. That's what we all want. Estonia and the whole world have changed a lot as a result of the spread and prevention of the Corona virus. However, it is not easy to predict what the future will be. Estonia has shown itself to be a quick adaptor and has coped well with the crisis. In conclusion, I believe that what is reflected in the most important document of the year will help the country to cope with both the health and economic crisis, while providing the necessary prosperity for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U291	Sven Sester, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U292	Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U293	Eight minutes, then. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U294	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! The Fatherland has always defended the national interests of Estonia, the open economy, security and the freedom of people to decide for themselves. If we look at the budget for the next year, 2021, it can be said that this budget is actually as soon as possible for Estonia to emerge from the health and economic crisis. I would like to address four different points in my presentation today: taxes, Estonia's competitiveness, Estonia's defence capacity and responsible fiscal policy, which the previous speaker has just spoken about. I'd start with taxes. Tax truce. The Fatherland came to this coalition a year and a half ago with a message that no new tax should come in four years, no existing tax rate should be increased. This was an unusual situation, since, according to my long-term experience, I can say that, in the past, almost every year, having also been an accomplice, new taxes have emerged or existing tax rates have been raised. Last year was a year in which no tax was raised. I can tell you, this year too. We're kind of used to it, that's all we're talking about. Just in case, I would remind you that there will be no new tax, no increase in the existing tax rate. Tax truce. Now, the second issue, responsible fiscal policy. For the Fatherland, it has been and it is also important at this point that we move towards balance. Yes, we have different opinions with our partners, and there is nothing weird about it. Yes, we also had many discussions with our partners when we put this budget together. They wanted to increase the costs, said they could have put more money. We are today in a situation where we will stimulate the economy with nearly EUR 2 billion next year. Our costs go beyond our revenues. That's the reality. That's the reality. However, if we look over the next four years of the period, it can be said that if the summer economic forecast that the Ministry of Finance brought to the decision-makers' table still showed a deficit of 3.1% by 2024, then at this point, looking at the four-year period, we can say that we are ultimately moving towards balance. Yes, it is not possible to strike a balance in one year, but I think that our vision of responsible fiscal policy must be one: we cannot live beyond our means for long. Yes, today there is a situation where economic recovery is needed. Yes, we are making these investments. But not for long. Not for long. If we look at what the budgetary policy for next year will be, we will see that, in principle, we can say: credit will not increase fixed costs, looking at what our investment programme will be in total volume and what the loans will be. Much has been said about this and there has been confusion about how much there will be in the state budget for specific expenditure-benefits and how much there will be in the general government. It is certainly worth noting, when talking about loans, that next year the budget will have a budget of 1.4 billion and that there will be a difference of 2 billion levels in the government sector. Now Estonia's competitiveness. I think so, and our party thinks it's all about the economy. If the Estonian economy is competitive, the Estonian economy is growing, there will also be additional resources to raise the pension in order to pay salaries and make all other different investments. The economic side is the foundation of everything. We are not able to cover our daily expenses from loans. The economy will give us this base and its revenue to generate possible costs in the future. And I am pleased to note that the activities that contribute to the growth of the competitiveness of the economy will be seen in the state budget next year. Science funding, which has been spoken of by different coalitions since the dusk of time, from reaching 1%. Again, these decimals have been viewed, after all, are either 0.77 or 0.81 or 0.75. Still hasn't reached that 1%. And it can be seen that next year really 1% will be guaranteed and, more importantly, it is essentially agreed that the 1% rate will be maintained in the future. This will cost an additional EUR 56 million next year and will reach EUR 282 million. This is a clear measure to increase the competitiveness of the economy. A few words about defense. For our party, as well as for the funds directed towards R &amp; D, defence capabilities have been important for the Fatherland of all time. In these negotiations, too, we discussed and, in a good way, pressured our partners to think about it. Yes, there was a situation where GDP fell. And, in principle, it could also have been assumed that, with a fall in GDP, investments in defence and security would have been reduced by 2%, but in this case many of the things that are currently foreseen in the development plan would probably have been left unfinished. We have reached an agreement, and here I really thank our partners for keeping the same level that had been agreed in the past next year. It is based on this development plan, the defence development plan that had been agreed. This creates a situation in which, essentially next year, let's say, I might be wrong about decimals, but I think in the order of 2.29% of GDP, the level of security capacity will be diverted from GDP. This level, this high percentage, we've never had before. And the Fatherland certainly thanks here and states that this is a right and right decision. A lot of people here have been talking about pension increases. I would highlight another aspect of the pension increase. As I mentioned earlier, the best pension increase is economic policy. The best policy, economic policy, the economy is rising, we can raise pensions. But I'd like to put one thing out here that's important. If perhaps more has been said about this extraordinary pension, it is important for the Fatherland that we have agreed that the so-called maternity pension proportion is rising. For the Fatherland, families, children and related matters have always been important. Remember, once specially created the so-called mother pension logic. Today we see that the maternity pension is on the rise. And if we look at this 50 million increase in the total pension, 10 million of it is for the maternity pension. And I am really glad that this has been addressed. I'd be the last to finish with Estonian. Once again, our political party's priority, Estonian language, Estonian language education, not in Estonian, but in Estonian. And we will see in the budget next year the means to ensure that Estonian language and Estonian language learning are guaranteed in different Russian-language kindergartens and schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U295	Thank you. Negotiations on the draft National Budget Act 2021 initiated by the Government of the Republic have thus been concluded. The lead committee has proposed that the first reading of draft 254 be completed. We also have the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party to reject the draft National Budget Act 2021 at first reading, which we are now going to vote on. Let's get ready for the vote. Attention! Honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party to reject the draft National Budget Act 2021 at first reading, number 254. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U296	Forty members of the Riigikogu, 53 respondents, voted in favour of this proposal. The draft will remain in order. This item is closed. Let's go to the next item on the agenda... What? The deadline for amendments must also be stated, which is 2 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U297	The next item is the draft law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and on the amendment of other laws (the transformation of money laundering into a government agency) with number 259. The plan is the first reading of this bill. I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme, to serve as a waitress. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Let us now calm down and begin the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U298	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I bring before you a draft law amending the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and other laws. Its first-reading law regulates the transfer of the Financial Intelligence Unit as a structural unit of the Police and Border Guard Board from 1 January 2021 to the Ministry of Finance and the conversion into a government agency. The decision to make the FIU an independent institution was made in the Riigikogu, including by the amendment of the law adopted on 17 June. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The practical implementation of the transition has revealed the need for an amendment to the law, which is what the draft in question deals with. The draft consists of 17 paragraphs and aims to make the necessary changes to the transformation of the Financial Intelligence Unit of the Police and Border Guard Board into the Money Laundering Data Bureau within the remit of the Ministry of Finance, while maintaining the organisation and rights of the current institution. The draft is urgent, as the new Money Laundering Data Bureau will start operating from January 2021. 30 days earlier, it is necessary to give effect to a provision enabling the Minister of Finance or his authorised person to carry out operations relating to the transfer of officials and police officers in order to ensure a smooth transition. One act is known to require the signature of a decision on the transfer of officials, in respect of which the person having the right to appoint the host authority is required to be notified. Since the receiving authority will only start on 1 January, it is necessary to provide for a separate mandate in the law before that. Secondly, it is extremely important that the new Money Laundering Data Bureau has access to the same information that it is currently using. As a structural unit of the Financial Intelligence Unit of the Police and Border Guard Board, it can access the databases of the PBGB internally. However, it is necessary to establish a legal basis for the PBGB to share this information with the Money Laundering Data Bureau when it becomes operational. Accurate data exchange and cooperation agreements are concluded between authorities separately, but the legal basis should be established and the law on police and border guards and the Code of Criminal Procedure should be amended. In particular, it is necessary to provide legal certainty for sharing intelligence on surveillance activities in a situation where the RAB is no longer a structural unit of the intelligence agency from 1 January. The draft also brings the text of the law more closely into line with the wording of internationally established standards of the Money Laundering Data Bureau. The draft provides that the composition and staff of the FIU's offices remain information intended for internal use within the meaning of the Public Information Act. Its purpose is to support the confidentiality of information handled by RAB. There will also be technical changes to the legislation throughout the money laundering data bureau as a government institution with a high initial letter. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U299	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions for you. Thank you. Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, will now be the second rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U300	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On 15 October, the Monetary Commission discussed the draft law amending the Law on Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and other laws (the transformation of money laundering into a government agency) for the first reading. The draft was presented by Mr Helme, Minister of Finance, as representative of the initiators. The bill introduces the necessary changes to the law in connection with the transfer of a Financial Intelligence Unit, acting as a structural unit of the Police and Border Guard Board, from 1 January 2021 to an independent government body in the area of government of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: There is a speaker before you to represent the Commission in 259 proceedings. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by today's date, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at seven working days, i.e. 28 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U301	Thank you very much. There are no questions for you, dear waitress. It is now possible to open negotiations. The first reading is now, and that means that political groups can take the floor in the negotiations. The wish to participate in the negotiations has not been revealed, so I will consider the negotiations to be concluded. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 259. There are no other proposals. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 28 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U302	We will look at the fourth item on the agenda, this is the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 253, and we will begin with its first reading. I'd like the Social Minister, Tanel Kiige, to be here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U303	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today I am happy to introduce the draft Act 253 amending the Pension Insurance Act to the Riigikogu. I would like to present more precisely the changes with which, in the end, we want to increase pensions exceptionally through three components in the coming year: firstly, the increase in the basic part of the pension of EUR 16; secondly, the increase in the pension supplement for each child's upbringing by half an annual price, which is also EUR 3.55 at the current value; thirdly, the increase in the national pension of EUR 30. On average, the increase in old-age pensions will result in an increase of over 20 euros next year. If you look at pension policy, the European Commission has repeatedly raised the issue of the poverty of older people in its annual Estonian state report. Estonia's expenditure on old-age pensions has been one of the lowest in Europe for decades and the pension has clearly increased more slowly than the average salary. In 2019, the average old-age pension in Estonia amounted to approximately 42% of the average net monthly wage and the median old-age pension was 50% of the median net wage. At the same time, the relative poverty rate of older people in Estonia (65 years of age and older) has been the highest in the European Union in previous years. According to Eurostat, 46.3% of the Estonian elderly lived in relative poverty in 2018. On the basis of these indicators, additional contributions to pensions are essential and indispensable, even in the current difficult economic situation. The extraordinary increase in the basic part of the pension as a solidarity component increases the pensions of all old-age pensioners, the remaining incapacity pensioners and survivors' pensioners. Raising the solidarity component will help more non-working pensioners who receive a lower pension in relative terms. The average old-age pension for 44-year-olds will rise to 544 euros on 1 April 2021. The exceptional increase in the 16-euro pension base will ultimately affect nearly 320000 people and the cost of the increase will be 45.8 million euros next year. The total impact on the state budget, the so-called net impact, is 37,3 million, as a certain proportion is recovered through consumption taxes and income tax. Similarly, some of the costs it entails are the provision for pensioners who are not employed by the health insurance fund. Also, as I have pointed out, the supplementary pension supplement for each child is now increased from one annual price to 1.5, or half an annual rate, which adds 3.55 euros per child to one parent. For raising children born before 2013, one parent's pension is currently increased to a total of three annual marks. According to the year of birth of the child, a retired parent receives either a two-year pension entitlement or a two-year pension supplement plus an "additional" supplementary pension supplement. That's what we're increasing now. As of 1 April 2021, the supplementary pension supplement will be increased to 1.5 a year, in which case their reference pension supplements will amount to 3.5 a year. And increasing the pension supplement will provide additional income for older people who have raised one or more children for at least eight years and for whom children were born before 2013. The next step is, in fact, an additional contribution to the second pension pillar. Estonia has a total of 429000 children, for whom an additional pension supplement is paid to approximately 203000 pensioners. Thus, on average, the pensionable pensioner receives a pension supplement for two children. Not all the elderly, as indicated, can. This depends on how parents have agreed and decided to do so among themselves. It is possible that one child receives one parent and the other parent of the other child, but it is also possible that all pension supplements come to one pensioner. If the average retirement age of two children now receives a pension of EUR 528 and the supplementary pension for two children is almost EUR 43 in total, i.e. EUR 571 in total, the pension income for the same so-called family model would be EUR 594 from 1 April next year. Perhaps the increase would then be somewhat higher, 23 euros above average. More specifically, this component would be: 544 basic shares and 50 supplementary pension supplements for raising children. As I was referring to, the pension supplement is paid to one parent at a time or split in half between them in agreement with the parents. The cost of increasing the pension supplement for children in the state budget for the following year is 14 million euros, with a total impact of 11.4. Here again, it is the same logic that a certain part comes back through consumption taxes and income tax, while at the same time some additional costs arise from the sickness fund's provision. By increasing the national pension rate by EUR 30, i.e. EUR 251,63, we help pensioners with the lowest income to obtain a higher income than the minimum subsistence rate, which in 2019 was EUR 221,36. It is estimated that in 2021 the minimum maintenance allowance will be EUR 224. So now clearly, the national pension goes beyond that limit for visible years. For example, between 2009 and 2015, people's pensions amounted to less than 80% of the minimum subsistence allowance. It's a sadly small number. National pensions were last exceptionally raised in 2007. To clarify, people's pension guarantees income in old age for people who have not met the requirement to receive an old-age pension and who have lived in Estonia for at least five years immediately before applying for a pension. There are currently 3000 beneficiaries of national pension in Estonia. This is 1% of all pensioners, but this is also the percentage that is likely to be the hardest to cope with on a daily basis. The cost of rising national pensions will be 0.8 billion euros next year and the total impact on the state budget will be 0.6 million euros. Perhaps the same logic applies once again, to which reference was made before, that a certain part would be recovered and that certain additional costs would be incurred in relation to the sickness fund. In total, pension increases will take about EUR 50 million as a net impact next year, with a gross cost of over 60 million. If the honourable Riigikogu decides to approve the draft, the amendments will enter into force on 1 April 2021. As usual, pensions are indexed from 1 April, and most extraordinary pension increases have also taken place just then. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U304	Let's start asking questions. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U305	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I read in the draft explanatory memorandum that raising the basic pension, along with other changes, is estimated to reduce the relative poverty rate of pensioners by 1.2%. And then page 3 shows, I understand, the relative poverty rate of older people, it's 43.7. What is the rate after the pension increase is implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U306	Thank you for your question. These rates of relative poverty are, in fact, always ex post. Perhaps today we do not yet know what the 2020 number is, nor do we know what it will be in 2021, but it is estimated that any increase in pensions will, of course, reduce the number of older people below the relative poverty rate. So the exact percentage I can't tell you right now, because that would be speculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U307	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U308	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I ask for clarity, and perhaps also for the sake of a verbatim report, whether this proportion of the coefficient for children will be added from 1 April 2021. That was the question put by the voter, I just want the minister to answer that question. And another thing, in the Committee on Social Affairs, I also asked about the children's supplement, which is very positive and correct, but at the same time, taxes are set off as they are from the pension. All right, the average pension could be tax-free, but above that, it's taxable. Have you considered that this share of children could be separate and non-taxable so-called support?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U309	Thank you very much for your question. Yes, all pension increases will take effect on 1 April 2021, both the increase of the national pension and the basic pension and the supplementary pension for children. As far as the issue of income tax is concerned, of course, this is a place of choice, either to contribute to extraordinary pension increases, as the current government has decided in two consecutive years, or to increase tax-free incomes for the elderly? After all, the goal is to increase the income of older people in a similar way. The increase in the basic pension and the wider increase in the national pension support, first and foremost, those older people who would not be able to benefit from an increase in tax-free income, because their pension may be lower, and of course it will also support all those older people who are currently paying income tax. So in this view, we've gone this way. The fact that the supplement for children could be exempt from income tax is, in my opinion, a separate forum for debate for Parliament. Of course, this is technically feasible. I did some background check on your question. It was said that this required relatively complex ICT developments, as this pension supplement was partially integrated into the pension. Perhaps, as I referred to earlier, depending on the year of birth of the child, part of the year of further seniority, part of the year's mark-up in particular, and in turn, the difference is whether the child was born later, because in that case, the amount goes to the second pillar of the pension when the person has joined it. So there are a number of technical issues that need to be resolved. Hypothetically, it is, of course, possible to calculate and do everything, although, if it were to be asked in the 'worldview', I think it would be easier to take into account the principle that tax-free income should be increased for all pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U310	Raimond Kaljulaid, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U311	Thank you. Of course, we don't know how to predict these statistics, but you can imagine that if we had 44 older people before, figuratively speaking, under 100 relative poverty limits, it would be either 43 or 42 after the adoption of this bill. It would undoubtedly be better to do the EUR 100 extraordinary pension increase that has been mentioned. But I want to ask you about the government's broader policy, which I find quite interesting. I understand that at a good time when the economy was growing, the tax receipts increased and everything was very well, then the government raised the pension of seven euros. But now that there's a crisis, the economy is shrinking, the tax receipts are decreasing, and the times are harder in finance, it's going to be a little over 20. How deep must this crisis be to reach the EUR 100 that was promised before the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U312	Thank you for your question. Well, I think the ridicule of pension increases is not the kind of action that a social democrat should deal with. All the more so as, unfortunately, if you look at recent history, the pension increase has really been driven by the governments of the Central Party, not by any other. As far as the pension increase last year, or rather this year, 2020 is concerned, the total increase was still EUR 45, although indeed EUR 38 with indexation, an additional EUR seven. Since this year's index for the next year, i.e. 2021, would have been negative, which would have meant that, in the absence of a reduction in pension, it would have remained at the same level, i.e. an increase of zero, it obviously seemed right for us to apply for a higher emergency pension increase and thus to help older people cope on a daily basis, as well as the possible additional costs of the COVID crisis, whether it be linked to health care, personal protection or more generally, because, as you have even pointed out, the proportion of relative poverty among the elderly in Estonia is unfortunately high. In my opinion, we were able to agree this year, within the coalition, on an extraordinary pension increase, which is the highest, high value and very important step in the whole. I very much hope that the Social Democratic Party will also support an emergency pension increase, regardless of whether the economic times are better or worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U313	Peter Rahnel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U314	Dear Vice President! Minister, thank you very much. I would like to ask this technical question: if there is an agreement on a supplementary pension for raising children, can this agreement be amended at any time? And if so, what time will it be? But generally, pension increases are good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U315	Thank you for your question. I agree with your position on pension increases is a good thing. As far as the pension supplement for children is concerned, I know that it can be changed. You should ask the Social Insurance Board about the exact timeline. In any case, it is possible to change this, for example, in cases where one of the pensioners' couples should leave us. It is then possible for the spouse of the deceased or another person who has raised children, such as his or her partner, to receive a pension supplement for the children.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U316	Thank you very much, Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Now I ask Tõnis Möldri, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, as the second rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U317	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 12 October, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act. Here the previous speaker, Minister Tanel Kiik, was also present at the committee and presented the draft. Let it be said briefly that we have discussed some technical changes that we can discuss between the first and second readings on the basis of a letter from the Ministry to us, but they are not currently included in the text sent to this Chamber. Let us go once again to the debate in the Commission. Members of the Commission also had some questions. One question was this: which source of cover is really expected to increase, and for this purpose has the state taken out loans? Indeed, it has to be said that it is not enough to receive social tax alone for this increase, but there must be alternative sources of cover as social tax, but that does not mean that it should only come from loan money or somehow linked to it. Then the question was once again what are the exact amounts. If the state spends one sum on pension increases, what is the amount that the state will receive back later in taxes? We know that this part of the pension, which is more than EUR 500, will then be taxed, just like everything else. The Minister replied that no direct calculation was made as to how much tax money could come back nationally. One thing is certain, it was even one of the goals of the pension increase: to revive the economy and put this money into circulation. Definitely a pension increase as a whole, I believe, and in fact it also came out of the Minister's answers - it still goes back to circulation in more or less maximum form. The members of the Commission then expressed the view that the use of credit would increase the debt burden for future generations. It was also noted that the budget for the following year did not provide for long-term care and asked the Minister to explain this. The minister explained politely, but once again: this is not the subject of this draft. This was more of a question in this large saalis from this point of view regarding the budget for next year. Then there was the question that a colleague here asked the Minister earlier. In fact, many Estonian pensioners live at risk of poverty, especially those living alone. How much will the planned increase reduce the number of pensioners at risk of poverty? The minister replied, both to us and in advance, in this great hall, that by 1.2%. There was another question, which has also been asked by a good colleague in the large Chamber, concerning the exemption from income tax on children. In this large Chamber, the Minister already gave a longer explanation, but in the Commission he said that there has indeed not been any discussion of such a tax issue or approach in the government. The Commission decided on the following matters: to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session on 19 October, to propose that the first reading be closed, to appoint Tõnis Mölder as rapporteur and to set ten working days for the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U318	Thank you very much. You have questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U319	Good manager! Good waitress! Did the Commission also have a debate on how this affects the second pension pillar? We know that the pension for the first pillar has increased four times in the meantime during the second pension pillar law that was in force for 20 years. Now this year, or next year, we will exceptionally increase the pension for the first pillar, but there will be no change to this law in the second pillar. Will this gap grow even more now, so that all those who have joined the second pillar can reap even more than before?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U320	Thank you. The brief answer is that we did not discuss this in the Commission. We could put a point here and then finish the answer to this question, so it would be correct. But the honest answer is actually this: as far as the second pillar and all this topic are concerned, I believe that this debate will be on the agenda again in this big Chamber soon, perhaps only a few days remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U321	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions. Does anyone want to speak on behalf of the political groups? Helmen Kütt, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U322	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! There is no doubt that the Social Democrats support this bill because managing the elderly and managing the pension has always been a very important issue. As early as June 2019, the Ministry of Social Affairs carried out a study entitled "The economic coping and poverty of the elderly," which stated that the European Commission has repeatedly raised the issue of pension adequacy in its annual Estonian state report. The last report, made in 2019, reiterates the fact that poverty among older people (65 years of age and older) is still very high in Estonia. And true, according to this table, this is the 2017 table, because, as the Minister said, things are being looked at ex-post, with 41.2% of the relative poverty rates of older people, Estonia is at the highest risk of poverty among the Member States of the European Union. If we look here today at the budget for 2021, although the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee said that these issues are not related, they are not. The explanatory memorandum to the state budget states that the risk of relative poverty for older people, i.e. those aged 65 and over as a whole, is significantly higher than the overall population, but the proportion of individual people over 65 in relative poverty is as high as 78.4%. Why did I come here to talk to the remote? This is a draft that we will undoubtedly support. It is sad, however, that all other issues, since the average pension in Estonia is not exempt from income tax, or that children's years are taxed, have not even been discussed. They say the system is complicated. Nice. However, we have had previous governments, such as the government of Taavi Rõivas, during which the Estonian average pension was tax-free, or Jüri Ratas's first government, when 500 euros were tax-free and it was more than the Estonian average pension at the time. In the new year, the average pension in Estonia will be more than 540 euros, as the Minister has already said here, with the children's years, but at the same time the income tax will be deducted from every euro that is more than 500 euros. It is not possible to pay a nursing home with this pension, for example. The State Budget explanatory memorandum sets out the following points as important actions to meet the objectives of 2021: "In a long-term care system, it is important to ensure the smooth movement of persons with care needs between social and health services, to reduce the burden on people with care needs and their loved ones in the administration and to ensure assistance for those with assistance needs as early as possible. " But, in fact, to this increase in pension, I say once again that this is very important, we certainly support it, and we consider it to be the only one that has not followed the next steps. In other words, it will certainly be better to do half of the work, without being able to carry out the whole of the work, but we will not see in 2021 what concerns the establishment of a single welfare policy, the design of welfare policies and a sustainable long-term care system. We have done a lot of research, the ministry has these studies on the shelf, and if the minister were to ask the house how much money has gone into these studies, believe me, this money could have done a lot to ease the lives of those who care about themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U323	Aivar Kokk, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland Party, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U324	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, it is worth remembering that the safety and well - being of the elderly are very important. On the one hand, we can show it by our daily actions, but the country also has a role to play here. Older people and pensioners living alone are always in the most vulnerable economic situation. That is why, under the leadership of the Fatherland, we created an allowance for a pensioner living alone in 2016, which represents an additional income of EUR 115 per year for the pensioner. The state must also value parenting. The parental pension, which entered into force on 1 January 2013, and the increase in the share of children in the paid pension, are above all a value-based issue under the leadership of the Isamaa Party. Children are the ones whose work and tax revenue will in the future provide pensions for our pensioners. It is therefore only right that those who have contributed more to future generations will receive a higher pension. The purpose of the Act amending the State Pension Insurance Act is also that those pensioners who have contributed to the future generation, i.e. their children, will receive a higher pension increase. The parental pension created by the Fatherland will rise to EUR 25 per month from 1 April 2021. To sum it up. We have also contributed more to the well-being of the elderly in recent years by raising pensions. I would remind you that in April this year, the average pension rose by EUR 45. The average pension is expected to increase by another 20 euros in the national budget of 2021. This raises the average pension to around 550 euros. We work together for the well-being of our pensioners and value parenting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U325	On behalf of the Group of the Marika Tuus-Laul Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U326	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is an old saying that the country's level of culture is demonstrated by its attitude towards the elderly, those who have done their life's work and have contributed to the development of the country. So how has it been at different times? I remember when, during the turn of the century, the already extremely lousy living money was raised, of course, in quotes of only one kroon and 12 kroons a year later. I remember the times when the Prime Minister was on a golden throne on the TV screen before the election and promised a double pension to the people. In fact, this was followed by a pension freeze for a long period of time and later by an indexing formula that had previously been provided for, rather, reduced. I would point out that for us, the Centre Party, over the years, the lives and pensions of older people have been important. Between 2005 and 2007, when Jaak Aab was Minister of Social Affairs, the biggest pension increase in Estonia took place. I remember that one very large group, now no longer in politics with this name, did not vote in favour of a pension increase because it trampled on the right-wing values and comes at the expense of young people. Even now that we are in government, we consider it important to raise the lifespan of the older generation. The extraordinary pension increase and indexation took place in spring, as you remember, the biggest pension increase in the last 12 years. 45 euros in addition is a very big deal for the elderly. It is precisely because, at a time when there are worse times in the world, we are not cutting the economy to death or reducing the people's lives, but, on the contrary, we are supporting people. That is why we believe that, at a time when indexation does not add anything to pensions, it is the task of the state to make an extraordinary pension increase that will continue to increase pensions. The EUR 16 added to the basic part of the pension, plus the additional allowance for raising children, the maternity pension, and, of course, the increase in the amount of the national pension, are right now when the world is plagued by COVID and the corona virus, particularly important for buying masks, vitamins, medicines and more. It is incredible for us that, for example, the head of the radio news of the Estonian National Broadcasting, who actually shapes our world view and opinions every day, came up with an unexpected position that says that there is nothing to justify an extraordinary increase in pensions. Has the journalist not heard that Estonia's pensions are repeatedly lagging behind European pensions and we are still in the role of a red lantern in this regard in Europe? The latest OECD comparative data collected were long ago, but in 2015 the payments to pensions only account for 7% of Estonia's GDP. In Finland, for example, this percentage is 11, in Greece 17. According to statistics, as has already been said here today, every other Estonian pensioner lives at risk of poverty. Two years ago, 43% of pensioners lived in relative poverty, as already recalled. However, for older people living alone, relative poverty was close to 80%. And the minimum pension gap between the different countries of Europe is almost 900%. This has also come from the fact that, in the meantime, no pension has been raised. It is even harder to say that since the salary increase is not coming, the pension should not be increased and it should be frozen. But let us look at the past. Let us remember: in ten years, the average wage has increased by almost 80%, while pensions have increased by less than 47% at the same time. Besides, the elderly don't have time to wait. It's not like it's an alms or an emergency. Older people have clearly earned a pension rise with their life's work; they have paid taxes and built up many educational establishments, hospitals and other buildings today so that we can use them. Raising the standard of living for 320000 people actually shows the dignity and respect of our country for our mothers, fathers, grandmothers, and grandfathers who have given us life and raised us. I propose that everyone should support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U327	Urmas Espenberg, please, on behalf of the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U328	I promise I'll be brief, everyone wants to go home. Good deputy speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, When did ethics begin, when did caring for the elderly begin? That was when they were no longer thrown into the abyss, perhaps by a herb. But in some group, whether it was Virginia Woolf or not, it was suggested to do the same. In any case, it was a very bad thing to say. But in fact, all three of our coalition partners are very concerned about and care about pensioners. I've talked to them a lot, on the street, at fairs, at familiar relatives, and on Facebook. And there's been all kinds of opinions. Yeah, it's a little bit, I agree, but the important thing is that we have good will. I guess a lot of groups are in trouble right now, like nurses and carers, who just can't get paid up right now. Many pensioners are also grateful for this EUR 20. So there are all sorts of answers. The decision on the second pillar was due tomorrow. We can see whether we can reform it or whether we have to start over. One of the successes of the EKRE and also of the coalition, I consider that the double taxation of Finnish and Estonian pensioners was completed as early as last spring, I think, in February. Perhaps this was the case before that the pension earned in Finland and the Estonian pension were put together and then collected income tax. But now it is that when a person has paid income tax in Finland, it is no longer taken twice in Estonia. We, like many others, have a broader goal of exempting pensions from income tax. But unfortunately, we were thwarted by the COVID-19 and the economic crisis that followed. Nevertheless, I call on everyone to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U329	Thank you very much. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. The negotiations are over. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 253; there are no other proposals. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-19_U330	Now a free microphone will follow as the last item on the agenda. All applicants can register after a hammer hit. Ladies and gentlemen, You don't want to use a free microphone. The sitting is adjourned.
