ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U1	Hello, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 14th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, the delivery of drafts and enquiries. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislator has instructed the Riigikogu to complete the National Broadcasting Council. In fact, yes, according to our internal division of labour, this point is being prepared by the Committee on Culture. On the basis of this regulation, I have an obligation to deliver a draft of the appointment of the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council of recognized experts in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U3	Peter Ernits, please! However, there is no wish. In that case, I would like to ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson to speak on behalf of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U4	Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Waste Act and the Packaging Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Rene Kokk, Minister of the Environment. And second, the bill to amend the law on traffic. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. Both drafts have been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the EKRE Group, I shall inform you that we do not consider it necessary to change the agenda for the Wednesday sitting and do not support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U6	Mr Pohlak
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U7	Clearly, in that case, the second amendment falls out. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since this proposal came from me to the Bureau, I understand so that I am not going to explain it any further, but I understand now that there is a need to exchange these items from the Bureau at the moment, which means that if there is opposition to it, there must be consensus. However, if the Bureau's agenda is put to the vote, the vote will be taken on who is in favour and who is against. In this case, there is no veto option.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U9	If a political group in this Chamber objects that they do not agree to a change in the agenda, unfortunately, this proposal falls out. Please, Hanno Pevkur! Sorry, Jürgen Ligi was before!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U10	Thank you. I'd be happy to give Hanno the floor, but I had another question. In general, the Management Board of the Riigikogu must also fight for the reputation of the Riigikogu, and now it has happened that four drafts have been put on today's agenda to celebrate celebrations. I realized one of them was taken out, but three of them are still there. It is very well justified to get on the agenda of the drafts that have been put in place before the crisis. But did the Bureau not think it would be embarrassing if the government, at the height of the crisis, were to add its own draft, which, moreover, rewrites the drafts already presented in January? Was this discussed by the board?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U11	The Bureau followed the proposals from the committees, both on the drafts and on the days on the agenda this week. The Bureau itself did not object to this amendment either. Yes, Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U12	Thank you, Mr President. The rules of procedure and the rules of procedure shall govern how the agenda reaches the hall. The agenda will arrive at the Chamber on a proposal from the Board. You have read the Bureau's proposal and this cannot be vetoed by the political groups. The political groups can veto when someone in the Chamber decides to propose that one or the other item on the agenda be taken out, not that of the Bureau. The Bureau's proposal, which you read out, to change the order of the items on the Wednesday agenda, is noted in the Chamber, just as you sometimes leave out a few points on behalf of the Bureau and do not discuss it. That's the board's right to bring the agenda to this hall, and then we vote 'yes' or 'no'. But the proposal you read cannot be vetoed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U13	This is not quite the case, however, because the agenda for this week was made public to members of the Riigikogu already last week, and today we are working precisely on amending it. If a political group does not approve of the proposal, it will fall out. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U14	Thank you. I very much hope that at least some members of the government union will be embarrassed that the government is dealing with the biggest crisis in the middle of the reform of the Holidays and Celebrations Act, rather than supporting some opposition drafts for a change. But my question is very fundamental. Here are three very similar drafts, which have been received at very different times. What exactly did you build on when you placed it as the very first point of discussion, the most recently received and those received much earlier, which, true, is from the opposition, you put it as a later point of discussion? What exactly did you come up with?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U15	Thank you. Undoubtedly, in times of crisis, the government will not only be able to deal with crisis issues, but will also deal with all others. However, as far as this particular issue is concerned, we were based on the Commission's request. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U16	Thank you. Will you then confirm that this agenda is now going to be voted on with an amendment such as the one you tabled and on which the people here also confirmed that the political groups cannot veto it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Will the agenda be approved as you proposed and put to the vote as such? Is this the procedure followed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U17	The political groups can veto such a change in the agenda, and just a moment ago it happened. I will vote on today's agenda, together with a proposal from the Social Democratic Party, which was not contested. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U18	Thank you. I ask you as Chairman of the Riigikogu. You are a member of the EKRE Group and we have heard that the EKRE Group is opposed to this proposal that you have proposed. Am I right to understand that, as Chairman of the Riigikogu and as a member of the EKRE Group, you support the EKRE Group's proposal to oppose a proposal that you yourself have just made?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U19	No, that's not the question at all. I have abstained completely on this issue. I informed the Bureau that, from my point of view, there was no difference in the order in which these drafts would be discussed. I said that this order does not matter at all, and that you asked for my personal position on such a request. That is the kind of words I answered the board. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U20	I would, however, be a little more specific about the handling of this matter. I, in the Bureau, did not coordinate this agenda, and both other members of the Bureau announced by e-mail that they had, as Mr President has just said, relatively no matter what. This means that now, as I understand it, the agenda in which this change has been made came to us. So we should vote for or against this agenda. I understand you can't veto it. And no matter what the question of the board is, if there is no consensus, it will be brought to the big hall with two different variants. So it is my proposal to put to the vote the same motion as the honourable President has read at the beginning, along with this amendment. I think that this amendment, however, has a certain symbolic significance. If you look at it, frankly, the appearance of a bill in front of it, thirdly, in front of a bill with exactly the same content, is somewhat bizarre.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U21	Thank you. As you said yourself, it has the same content. There's no difference in what order they're in. However, on the basis of the Commission's request, this agenda has been made as such, and this agenda has also been made public and distributed. If the amendment to the agenda is now challenged in the Chamber, we cannot take this amendment into account. Urmas Kruuse. And I ask that this remains the last drafting issue now, because the subject of all these drafts is the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! As Chairman of the Riigikogu, do you consider it very right and reasonable that, if, for example, the political groups have submitted a draft in January and the government decides to hijack this draft in a few months' time, you will also have the courage to change the order of their proceedings so that the opposition will not be able to continue any logical discussion at all? If the political groups have submitted similar drafts several months earlier, why should a later draft, a government, be put before these drafts? Why is that, Honourable Chairman?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U23	Thank you. I have no wish at all to change the agenda. On the contrary, this desire came and was based on the Reform Party. Since one party has expressed the view that they do not agree with this, we will move on to the agenda that has already been distributed to you all last week, plus the Socialist proposal. I don't think there's any point in further developing this subject. [[Pick a buzz in the hall.]] Let's go to the vote on this week's agenda. [[In the diner.]] I guess we could stay here and discuss it forever. We have actually already discussed this issue. Let's go to the vote on this week's agenda. And before that, as always with the vote, let's do a hall call. Together with the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to exclude the draft law amending the Holidays and Dates Act from the Tuesday agenda, 153 I am voting on the approval of the 14th working week agenda of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 50 members of the Riigikogu, 34 against and 1 abstention. The agenda is confirmed. Yes, Urmas Reitelmann! [[Pick a buzz in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U25	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U26	The proposal is to amend this week's work programme so that the meetings will take place... [[Noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U27	Sure! Urmas Reitelmann, please, you had your hand up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U28	Yes, it is proposed to amend this week's work programme in a way that... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] If you can't hear me, you can keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U29	Please repeat!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U30	My proposal is to change this week's work programme so that the days of the sittings are Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, and on Wednesday there will be Question Time alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U31	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to change the working time schedule for the 14th working week of the third session of the Riigikogu so that plenary sessions take place on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday and on Wednesday. Please take a stand and vote. [[Noise in the hall.]] Yeah, I'm gonna cut off the vote, and we're gonna take a break when we get back to the Reform Party. Did you want ten minutes? [[Noise in the hall.]] Since Taavi Kõivas made a request for a ten-minute break, there will be a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U32	Before we go to the proposal to change the timetable, we will examine the procedural questions put by our honourable colleagues. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U33	Thanks for the floor! First of all, on the previous subject, I would like to mention in the verbatim report that it was a proposal from the Bureau, not a proposal from the Reform Party Group, as you have said, as regards the amendment of the agenda. Now, you said that if the Bureau proposes to change the agenda, the political group will be able to veto this proposal in the Chamber. I'm asking for further internship to know. If, for example, the Bureau comes with a proposal that the Prime Minister wants to make a political statement, do we, as a Group of the Reform Party, have the right to veto this proposal and then cannot make such a change that this point is still on the agenda? The second big question: on what basis do you give the floor for procedural questions? If the opposition has ten procedural questions ahead, you will jump to your first party partner and give the floor to him instead. What are the grounds for speaking in this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U34	Thank you. The time has already passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U35	Whoa, whoa! There is no time for procedural speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U36	All right, sorry, go on, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U37	Just in case, there is no mention of a time limit for procedural questions. On what basis are you saying that EKRE was entitled to veto this first proposal from the Bureau, whereas we did not have the right to veto the agenda proposed by Urmas Reitelmann, or rather you did not even give me the floor to do so? So, questions like that. Please respond and preferably refer to the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U38	Now there were a lot of questions. The Bureau meeting was held electronically by e-mail. The agenda had already been approved by two Bureau members when the Reform Party proposed... [[There's something going on in the hall.]] Proposal by a representative of the Reform Party in such a Since the clock fell and the time during which the agenda for the following week should be made public was over, the documents were distributed as they had been submitted. It was only the next day that the second vice-chairman announced that the Reform Party had discussed this issue in the group and he stated that he had not approved the agenda. This letter came on Friday, not Thursday, when the Bureau was sitting. So, and if we are now talking about updating and amending the agenda in a situation where the agenda for next week has been made public, we need to look at Paragraph 54 (3) of our Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, which says this: 'After the agenda has been announced, it may be supplemented only if no political group opposes it. ' As we have seen, this amendment was opposed. As regards the question of how the opposition may behave, for example, if the Prime Minister wishes to come before the Riigikogu to submit his application, then we will proceed from the second section of the Home and Working Procedures Act, or § 56. There are a number of different points which may be added to the agenda, and one of these points is precisely the right of the Prime Minister to appear in the Riigikogu. Hanno Pevkur has a third procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U39	Thank you. The fourth, the fifth and the sixth, if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U40	Yeah, I guess so. You can also submit 40 if you think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U41	I didn't want to comment at all, but thank you! Mr President, I see that a dilemma has arisen. We have approved the agenda, but not in the form that the Bureau proposed. You said that the agenda would be sent out, and when it was sent out, it would be sacred, and even on the proposal of the board, it would not be changed again. Now, this agenda also includes Thursday. I'll take that big yellow paper, it says Thursday. And our practice is that once the agenda has been sent out and we have a four-day working week in this big hall, we will also come here on Thursday, we will do the check-in and all the other necessary steps. Now, what if, for example, the Centre Party Group proposes to work on two days, even though we have already written that we are working on four days? Here are two questions. First of all, it would also be like changing the agenda if you wanted to take out Thursday. And if anyone in the factions veto it, it can't be done anymore. Secondly, I would like to clarify once again that if a timetable is to be reduced, it should be preceded by the adoption of the agenda. This is because, for example, the large Chamber of the Riigikogu decides by a majority of two thirds that we are working on three days, and if there is an agenda item on Thursday, the Management Board, before putting the agenda to approval, will move these Thursday items to Wednesday. It will then be possible to decide in the large hall that the work will be carried out on three days and that the agenda items scheduled for Thursday will be moved to Wednesday. First of all, I believe that, in principle, the proposal to change the working schedule has already been made at the wrong time, because we have approved the agenda. Secondly, since Thursday we have already approved it as a working day, each political group will be able to veto it in the same way as any other amendment to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U42	Thank you. Unfortunately, this is not what you say. Firstly, this week's agenda has been confirmed, and quite rightly you mentioned that Thursday is also a working day. As regards changes to the items on the agenda, I read paragraph 3 of § 54, which states precisely that this is possible if no political group objects. At the moment, however, it was opposed. And as far as changing the timetable is concerned, this is in fact § 45 of the Home and Working Procedures Act, which makes it possible to change the timetable. This proposal cannot be challenged, but it requires two-thirds approval from the Riigikogu. If that is not the case, then we have confirmed the agenda for this week and the sitting will also take place on Thursday. But since we have not approved any drafts by Thursday, we will all come here, do a check-in and go home or go to committees and engage in the other necessary work that Riigikogu members do. I'm afraid that's the case. However, in order not to simply meet here on Thursday, Urmas Reitelmann proposed a change in the timetable. We will get to that vote. But now, please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U43	Thank you. Please explain to me for what reason you refuse members of the Riigikogu to speak, because you did so here before.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U44	Thank you. I have not forbade anyone to speak, and you have received your word right now. Thank you. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U45	Thank you. I also have a question about the procedure for speaking. Please tell me how this hall has to work to get word. A moment ago, 11 names were registered in the order of speaking, if I am not mistaken. But you refused to give the floor to the persons who were on the list, and you took the floor of a colleague who, as far as I know, was not on the list, certainly was not among the first, and you gave the floor to him instead. What's the order? And please also answer my colleague Maris Lauri's question as to why you did not give the floor to the previous ones. So I have two questions and I would like two answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U46	Thank you. Anyone who wishes to speak has received and will continue to receive the floor. However, as regards the number of procedural matters allowed, this is decided by the President of the sitting in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U47	Thank you very much. Despite some experience that I have had as a member of the Riigikogu in this Chamber, there has not been a situation like this before. I immediately asked a number of procedural questions, and I would like answers. In short, I understand that there were some votes here, then there was a break, and then the time was given to ask questions. I wondered if, and to what point in time, the hearing has now been rescinded when it is. Has he been withdrawn from the agenda at a time prior to the adoption of the agenda, or has the agenda already been adopted? Is it legal? That's first. Secondly, what is the agenda that was finally approved or to be confirmed? Thirdly, on the basis of which, in the meantime, did you intervene in the order of the second proposer, if you actually have a queue to ask questions on this screen? How could you in the meantime give someone else an advantage? Fourthly, the same thing that the previous questioners asked: why was it not allowed before the agenda was fixed, if the agenda is still approved, maybe it is still unconfirmed, I do not know how to ask procedural questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U48	Thank you. The agenda is confirmed. This vote has been taken. And what took place here on the proposal for an extension of the agenda is not unprecedented at all. This has happened in the past. Yes, it is. Please review the protocols. It's based on our rules of procedure. As regards procedural matters, the President of the sitting shall decide how much and to whom the floor is given. This is the case with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U49	Thank you. Unfortunately, the President of the sitting cannot say 'good', because what we have seen here has probably not been very good. You also have two Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu. In the current situation, do you not think that perhaps it is time to give them the opportunity to chair this sitting, because at the moment you have not been up to your duties? You obviously haven't made it clear. You started the session by saying that you would put the Bureau's proposal on the agenda to complete or amend the item order. After that, in the next phase, you spoke about the proposal of the Reform Party. It seems to me that you are very confused, and I suggest that you may be allowed to be replaced by the vice presidents for the moment until you can figure this out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U50	This is your vision. This proposal was presented to the Bureau by your own party, the Reform Party, and to act here as if it had not been based on you at all, is more than strange. By the way, during the intermission, we discussed this situation with the vice presidents and, unfortunately, in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act, he is. Like it or not, if the proposal needs to be added or changed to the agenda and one party, one political group is opposed to this proposal, this proposal unfortunately does not take into account or pass through. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U51	Thank you, Mr President. In order for this working week to remain legitimate, I do have a sincere proposal to cancel the voting on the current agenda for the very simple reason that you ignored the wishes of at least ten members of the Riigikogu to ask procedural questions. A member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask these procedural questions before voting on the agenda. Now, for some reason, you are relieved, obviously you have received good advice that there is no reason or right to ignore procedural questions submitted by members of the Riigikogu. However, since you did so last time and it is also recorded, I have a sincere request to you to cancel the vote on the current agenda and to hold a new vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U52	Thank you. The agenda adopted by the Riigikogu has been adopted as a decision and as such it is not to be cancelled. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U53	Thank you. I have a request for you to explain how you will determine the order of the questioners if there is more than one person in the queue. You said the exact wording I might not repeat at the moment that this is your decision to which you give or do not give the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U54	The law says that the President of the sitting gives permission to protest or question outside the agenda and, accordingly, I have given these opportunities. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Can you explain the following? I listened very carefully, but I could not hear the answer to the question that if there are ten people in line who want to ask a procedural question, who will have the privilege. Is it the one who's registered in writing or the one who's waving his hand the hardest? By what logic do you give the floor? I ask that it is clear in the future what must be done. Or do you have to do both at the same time, both in writing and with your hand?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U56	Yeah, well, actually, you should be signaling by waving your hand. Thus says § 74 (3) of our Home and Working Procedures Act. But I think it's okay if I give you the chance to ask a question without anyone raising your hand. I think this is acceptable to everyone. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U57	Thank you. I was one of the ten or so ambassadors who were in line before Urmas Reitelmann and who wanted the word and who had a perfectly legitimate right to do so and whom you ignored. My hand was also up, many times, and I'm sure you saw it. But it is clear that you do not have an adequate answer on this issue. Raising one's party partner ahead of the opposition is a disgrace in the practice of Estonian parliamentarianism. Congratulations, you were able to overcome yourself once again! But I have two questions. Firstly, your interpretation, as I understand it, is that the deletion of the day is not a change in the agenda. Although this is an exceptionally questionable interpretation, my question is this: is it possible that, after the adoption of the agenda, the Reform Party Group or any other Group proposes to exclude the whole Monday and start immediately on Tuesday so that we can begin with Helir-Valdor Seedr's chair and the atmosphere would be a little more constructive? That's one. Can we make this proposal now because, as I understand, the deletion of the day in your interpretation is not a change in the agenda, or is Thursday and Monday different? Please explain. Secondly, if the removal of the day is not a change in the agenda and it cannot be vetoed by the Reform Party Group, although we tried to do so, but you did not give us the floor to do so, how do you intend to put it to the vote now? What are the rules of the vote that Urmas Reitelmann applied for?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U58	Thank you. It is clear that you are now trying to do everything you can to get Monday out of our week of work. But you are again, once again, in the same way as your other ladies and gentlemen, confusing the fixing of the agenda and changing the timetable. I repeat, this week's agenda is confirmed on Thursday and the debate on drafts is held on three days. There are drafts on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday and there is Question Time on Wednesday. You yourself, ladies and gentlemen, have confirmed here that there will be no debate on the substance of the drafts in the Chamber on Thursday, and Urmas Reitelmann, a member of the Riigikogu, has proposed to change the timetable. These are two different things, the agenda and the schedule. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U59	I thank you...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U60	I'm sorry! No, you can no longer change this agenda because it has already been adopted by the Riigikogu with its decision. This proposal, in order to overturn all of today's drafts, can no longer be made. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U61	Thank you for the floor. Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! I read in the law that if a member of the Riigikogu has indicated by hand that he has a question or a protest concerning the conduct of a hearing, he will be given the floor, and the President of the sitting will resolve the protest or answer the question immediately. And then I read from the front, in paragraph 72 (2), that, indeed, you have the right to consider the speeches closed when everyone who wanted to speak has been able to speak or if you find that this item on the agenda has been adequately addressed. However, if a member of the Riigikogu disputes it, the closing of the speeches will be decided by voting. Let me understand that you are referring to your right to terminate the handling of these protests and questions, i.e. are you referring to § 72 (2)? Or do you have any other right arising from the law on the basis of which you refused to give the floor to those members of the Riigikogu who wished to ask questions or protests about the conduct of the sitting?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U62	Thank you. First of all, no member of the Riigikogu had 74 hands up in accordance with § 74 of the Rules of Procedure and Home Act so that they would like to have the floor. [[Noise in the hall.]] Secondly, it is the competence of the President of the Riigikogu to decide to answer these questions. Now, as you can see, everyone is given the opportunity to ask procedural questions. So there is no problem, democracy is not threatened. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U63	Thank you! My question concerns the order in which the speech is to be held. Please explain to us which item of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure you took Urmas Reitelmann's procedural proposal ahead of everyone else. Is there anything that we have missed so far in practice? Have we misunderstood that there is a certain system and order on which the Riigikogu receives the floor? If so, please explain to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U64	Thank you. The decision-making power of the President shall be exercised. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U65	I actually have the same question: why did you just give me the floor for a question if you could have given the floor to Jüri Jaanson or Toomas Kivimägi? Please, President, pull yourself together and answer this simple question. On what basis do you give the floor, whether or not this is a valid order? Of course, you also have the opportunity to apologize and say that you were wrong, and maybe then we can finally move on to the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U66	Thank you. I answered that question. And why did I give you my word? Because that's what you wanted. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U67	Thank you very much. Either I didn't get an answer to my previous question or I didn't hear it, in any case I'm going to ask the question again. You said the agenda was confirmed. What agenda was confirmed: what was originally presented or what had been changed? I didn't understand what agenda we're finally going to work here this week? And another thing. I propose that the board draw up, if possible, a written summary of everything that has happened this morning, to summarise and analyse what has happened and to send it to the members of the Riigikogu, so that we can be guided by it in the future and know how to behave here, including how to ask procedural questions or show a desire to do so, in what way the hands or fingers must be upright. Please submit all this in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U68	Thank you. You will have all this in writing if you print out or undertake this yellow book, which has been given to all members of the Riigikogu and which contains the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. However, as regards the agenda that we have approved, we have approved the same agenda that has been made public, with one amendment. From this agenda was removed from Tuesday's bill 153, which was perhaps the last item on Tuesday, no. 6. The agenda for the rest of the week remained the same. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U69	Thank you. I'll be very brief. You referred to paragraph 3 of § 54, which says that if no political group is opposed, the agenda may be supplemented. The emphasis is on 'complement'. In this proposal, which the Bureau brought us to the Chamber, there was no mention of updating the agenda, but of redeploying the agenda items. I, with my modest reading skills and understanding, say that upgrading and changing are completely different concepts. In this case, we were not dealing with an amendment but with an amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U70	Yes, unfortunately, all changes are considered to be additions, and that is exactly what the work practice of the Riigikogu has been through all years. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U71	Thank you. First of all, let it be said during the protest that we were not given the opportunity to ask for a break or to protest against the vote. This is quite contrary to the law of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure. And the fact that you let your groupmate ahead of everyone else and ignored others by putting his proposal straight to the vote is totally unacceptable. But to understand that your position is that the removal of the day of sitting is not a change in the agenda, which I find very difficult to agree with, but let us take as a starting point that this is your position, I have a question, and you did not actually answer that question last time, that under which legal provision and how this vote will be conducted. Do you need a simple majority or a two-thirds majority? Can one group veto it? How's that for your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U72	Yes, indeed, changing the schedule and changing the agenda are completely different things; they are dealt with by completely different sections of the law. The amendment of the schedule is based on § 45-sorry, I think it is § 48, yes, and it will require a two-thirds majority of the Riigikogu, as I said. We still have this vote ahead of us. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U73	Thank you, Mr President. By being embarrassed by the answer to Mr Raimond Kaljulaid's question, you have now made quite a manoeuvre and have come to the point that it is necessary to raise your hand to ask a procedural question, and you have not seen any hands. I permanently saw Kaja Kallas' hand, even during the vote, his hand was up. If, now, by looking through the video, it turns out that the hands were up, then do we really have to come back to the fact that the entire agenda of this week is going to be empty? Once again, I propose that this agenda be put back to the vote so that no one is in doubt. The agenda would not be unconfirmed, perhaps, but it is wise to put it back to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U74	According to § 85 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the decision has been confirmed after the hammer hit and is not to be challenged. We have taken this vote, the results of the vote have been confirmed. By the way, Kaja Kallas got the floor, and he also brought out his arguments, according to his own words, just the same ones he did not say before taking a break. So everyone has been able to express their thoughts and positions and ask questions. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U75	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a comment on the law. The wish to submit a protest or question is indicated by the member of the Riigikogu by raising his hand, according to § 74. This paragraph does not specify whether the hand must be held up permanently or how high it must be maintained. I saw very clearly that several members of the Reform Party Group, including Kaja Kallas, the leader of the opposition, repeatedly raised their hands. By repeatedly lifting their hands, they signaled that they had a question or a protest. I believe that this can be verified by watching the recording of the cameras in the hall, and your claim that the hand had not been raised and the signal had not been given, therefore, turns out to be wrong. However, unfortunately, you did not answer my question, which, I think, fully qualified as a matter of procedure for conducting the sitting. I repeat my question. I'm sure you have the law of our home and working arrangements at hand. Paragraph 72 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act gives the President the right to propose that the speeches be closed when everyone who wanted to speak has, in my opinion, been able to speak in this case, however, there were people who wished to speak, but could not speak, or if you find that the agenda issue has already been adequately addressed. Then you can really propose that the speeches be closed. However, in the event that a member of the Riigikogu disputes it, the closing of speeches is decided by a vote. If I understand the law correctly and interpret it correctly, this means that, in a situation where a number of people had clearly indicated with their hands that they wanted to ask questions or protests and make other speeches, you should have proposed that the speeches be closed and, if you see that this is not acceptable, put this proposal to the vote. My question is: do I misunderstand the law? Are you referring to this statement, which you have repeatedly made here today, that you were entitled to stop asking procedural questions, to some other provision of the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure that I do not see here at the moment, or do you refer to the same paragraph of § 72 (2)? Please explain the legal basis on which you made this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U76	Article 74, the same thing you mentioned here. And with full awareness, I also say that procedural issues will continue to be dealt with, even though I would have the right to terminate as you read out in accordance with § 72 (2) if I consider that they have already been adequately dealt with. But we'll keep going. So in this respect, it is deeply unclear what you would like to vote on here. I understand it's just a wish to stall. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U77	Thank you, President of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, Did I understand correctly from your previous answer that if you do not allow yourself to be disturbed by what is happening in this Chamber and you keep hitting the hammer, that means that all these decisions have been taken and we have no way of challenging them? I dare say, entirely from this human level, that you have obviously noticed that such a problem arises in this Chamber if you force yourself to suppress democratically the questioning process. You understand very well now that if you had had all the procedural questions properly asked before voting on the agenda, and therefore any political group would have made certain proposals, even knowing that they might not go through, we should not have argued here today so much. Is that very hard to understand? You've had an experience before, where we've spent an hour and a half arguing because they're trying to force something through.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U78	Thank you. Yes, indeed, if the Riigikogu has decided and the hammer has fallen, then the decision has been taken. That's right. There's absolutely nothing about me just banging a hammer around here by myself. In order for the decision to be legal, a vote by the Riigikogu and a decision by the Riigikogu are required. And the decision has been made. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U79	Mr. Pier! Today, you made history here, with a very bad history. Authoritarianism sneaks up quietly, secretly. This must be opposed, because today you made a clear attempt to muzzle the opposition. My question is this: what is the lesson for you today? Are you ready to admit your mistake and apologize to all of us, or are you going to continue this style and limit the right of the opposition to ask questions in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U80	Thank you. The possibility of asking your own question already speaks strongly against your claim. If I wanted to silence you, probably, I don't know, I could have had your microphone shut down, but you've all had a chance to ask questions. And just as Urmas Kruuse said here, it really isn't in those words, but the whole point of the matter was that the opposition was just trying to put someone in place. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U81	Thank you! Unfortunately, I must agree with what Mr Jaak Juske said. If you had admitted that you did not behave correctly in the implementation of the sitting, this debate would have long been over and we should not be wasting time here. And although today's debate began with the order of the Riigikogu agenda, what you put on the agenda as a representative of the coalition is, of course, by putting the government's draft, which they put incomprehensiblely during the crisis, ahead of the opposition's draft, simply very faceless. But all our work depends very much on how the law of the Riigikogu is interpreted. I cannot in any way be pleased with your answer to my question, which I asked earlier: on which basis do you give the floor optionally on procedural questions? I read the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, and its Article 68 (2) clearly states: "If a member of the Riigikogu wishes to ask a question, he must register. The President shall authorise the matter in accordance with the order in which it is to be registered. " What is this particular paragraph that gives you the opportunity to change the queue freely?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U82	Thank you. The point you have referred to concerns the handling of the drafts and does not apply in this case. But as for why we put the drafts in such order and for these days and this week, I can say that we were following the wishes of the various committees, of which you are all members. And I will be honest with you that I did not make any amendments and did not make any other board members to raise any drafts, government ones, earlier or later. It was only from Siim Kallas that there was a proposal that the agenda could be changed. So my hands are absolutely clean here. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U83	Good manager! It's the second hour, and there's an interesting bill waiting. I have a philosophical question: how long can it be and why all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U84	Thank you. That's a very substantive question for a while, I have to say. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] This is because the questions we have been hearing here for almost two hours are actually repeating each other. There is nothing new about them, and it is a matter of timing. That's my position, my understanding. Substantial answers have already been provided and substantive questions have already been answered. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President of the sitting! Your assessment cannot be accepted in any way, what you have now repeatedly presented. Why is it not only that there is power and majority in democracy, but that there are rules? If we were to rely only on power and on majority, then it would be that if there were six people and one of them were you and those five people decided by majority that they would throw you off the bridge, for example, you would probably not agree and say, 'Well, that's the will of most people. What are we gonna do? " That's why we have rules and laws to keep people from being thrown off the bridge. I will now return to the same law on home and working procedures that you have repeatedly and repeatedly referred to. So, you asked me what these protestors are protesting about, that we are discussing these protests and the issues that have arisen about the conduct of the sitting. But you see, the law and the legislature have stated very clearly in § 74 (4) that the President of the sitting will settle the protest or answer the question without delay. No delay! In this case, seeing the questions of your fellow Members, you took the time first, carried out even one vote, and only now have you started to deal with them. Likewise, the next time you might say that if someone has a protest or if someone has a question about the conduct of the sitting, you will deal with it after all the items on the agenda have been exhausted, for example at 3 or 4 a.m. It is for this reason that the legislator has provided in Paragraph 74 (4) that you must resolve a protest or answer the question without delay. And you still have not answered my question, on the basis of which you stopped answering these same protests and questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U86	Thank you. I'm still answering those questions. And your very hypothetical and incomprehensible understanding of democracy is when most decide that someone gets thrown off a bridge, that it is a democracy that does not respond to democracy. It's kind of anarchy or totalitarianism. Democracy is a system of state where such issues are not discussed at all. But it seems to me that you represent the notion that if a minority decides that someone will be thrown off a bridge, they will be thrown away, and if he objects, he will be very intolerant. It's such a discussion. The word "immediate" in the open. I have also met a place in our commentary on the Rules of Procedure, where it is said that this is happening within seven working days of the day, wasn't it? Anyway, we will discuss your questions here on the ground today, before we reach the drafts foreseen on the agenda of the sitting. I think it's urgent enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U87	Thank you. My question is based on the answer you gave to Jaak Juske, that you did not consciously do this non-questioning of procedural questions today or the initial ignoring of them, but rather foolishly. When the Reform Party took a ten-minute break, Helir-Valdor probably put some sense into your mind and said that it would be good to have these procedural questions asked. Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! All these things are written in our law of house and order of business, in this yellow book. I have a question. Would you take a little trouble in the near future and make this law of the house and the rules of procedure clear to yourself? Read this yellow book nicely instead of writing your own books.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U88	Thank you. I don't write my books about working hours. And since you mention them, you've probably read them yourself, and it only makes me happy, you hear a lot of important and important things. But as regards the law on home and working procedures, I have read you a number of paragraphs according to which we operate here and according to which the Riigikogu works. It is neither in my power nor in my competence to change nor fail to do so. I'm based on what our rules of procedure and domestic law provides for. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U89	Mr. President! I have a question about the future. Maybe you can help and give advice, then we'd know how to behave in the future. If there are procedural questions, is it enough to write down your name, raise your hand, or do you have to do both? How should we proceed in the future if there are procedural questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U90	I think that, as our law on home and working procedures says, you must give a hand signal, but also put yourself in line for the board. If there are 101 members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber, it is undoubtedly not enough for someone to raise his hand for a moment and think that he is immediately marked. We must be sure that the wish to speak has also been noted. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U91	Thank you, good manager. I've been plagued by a mystery for 1 hour and 20 minutes, how do you know when Reitelmann wants to speak? Did you have it planned somehow?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U92	My eyesight is pretty good. I don't have to wear glasses. When I see that one person raises his hand when my eyes fall on it, and he's also pressed the button, of course I can see it. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U93	I'll just add that if I were you, I'd look Kaja in the eye, not Reitelmann, but that's your choice, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U94	Pleasure! I think, in fact, we've gone far from all kinds of procedural issues, and there's just such an empty waste of time and fun going on here. So let us now go to the proposal put forward by Mr Reitelmann. I'm gonna vote on a schedule change, but before I do, I'm gonna do a hall call. Let's get to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to change the timetable for the 14th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu so that plenary sessions take place on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday and on Wednesday. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members were in favour of the proposal and 31 members of the Riigikogu were against, with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported by two thirds, so our working week will be Thursday, but there will be no draft debate at the Thursday session. The timetable was not changed; the Riigikogu has made a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U95	We are now going to the first item on Monday, which is the second reading of the draft Act 125 amending the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission, to serve as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U96	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Draft 125 was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 18 December last year. The draft law implements the new regulation of the European Union directly applicable in Estonia, which replaces the regulation previously in force and deals with the mutual recognition of the conformity of goods marketed in another Member State. The regulation will help boost trade in the European Single Market and speed up and enhance the work of the competent authorities in the assessment of goods. The implementation of the new regulation will make it easier for Estonian entrepreneurs to place their products on the European Union market. The first reading of the draft 125 took place on 10 February. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 25 February at 5.15 p.m. by Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading on three occasions: 9 and 16 March and 20 April. A representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also attended the meetings of the Commission. On two occasions, on 9 March and 16 March, the Economic Commission put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, but on both occasions the Executive Board of the Riigikogu did not put it on the agenda of the Chamber. According to the explanations provided by the Riigikogu's management board, the Riigikogu solved only time-critical issues during this period. The Commission decided to propose three amendments to the draft. The first two amendments are purely technical and deal with how the law should refer to European Union legislation. The third amendment follows from the fact that the law was not completed before 19 April. The regulation of the European Union and the Council came into force on 19 April. This is also the case in Estonia today and is directly applicable, so it is the regulation that applies in the event of disputes. This last amendment amends the time limit for enforcement so that the current date of enforcement, 19 April 2020, will be replaced by the day following publication in the Official Journal of the State. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to take this proposal into account in a consensual manner. In addition, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by today, 11 May. The second proposal was to conclude the second reading. The third proposal is to propose that the draft be sent to third reading by 18 May 2020 in case the second reading is closed. And the fourth proposal: a final vote on the draft. All four proposals listed above were adopted by consensus. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U97	Now we have a chance to ask the waitress questions. But it seems there are no questions. Thank you, dear waitress. Now's a chance to negotiate. Would you like to start negotiations? No, it's not. In that case, we will examine the amendments that have been tabled. Proposal No 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Proposal No 2 has also been submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of this. Proposal No 3 has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of this. We have examined all the amendments and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 125. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U98	The next item is the second reading of Bill 165 of the Medical Device Act, Emergency Act and other Acts Amendment Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U99	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu held two discussions between the first and second readings on the draft Act amending the Medical Device Act, the Emergency Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. We had our first reading in this Chamber on 6 May and the deadline for tabling amendments was 7 May. We received amendments from two groups. The Commission also received opinions from the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Estonian Association of Medicinal Products Wholesalers and the Association of Estonian Pharmacies, and at the first meeting we also heard from the Health Board. I will now come to this first meeting, during which we listened to the Health Board, because we are still talking a lot about the Health Board today on this draft. Indeed, most of the questions we raised concerned whether and how the Health Board is prepared to cope with the tasks that we give them in this draft. What kind of resource do they have today and what kind of resource would they need in the future to do this work even more efficiently and better? What trained people would they need, and what is the financial dimension that they would need to cope with the best possible level of performance of the tasks we assign to them under this draft? In addition, we reviewed all the opinions we had received. In short, I think that the most important opinion we received in the meantime was that of the Estonian Cities and Municipalities Association. In this context, as an amendment by the Commission, we fully supported one of the proposals with which we changed the term:'social service institution' rather than 'care institution'. But the second proposal, which actually came from the political groups as an amendment and came out of the letter of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, was how we dealt with what, according to me and the Commission as a whole, was perhaps quite inaccurately written in the original text of the draft. This is a question of information: how and how should the Health Board involve local authorities? We actually addressed this point not only in the context of local governments, but we are also talking about businesses and individuals. In this context, we introduced on behalf of the Commission, as one of the amendments, that the persons concerned should be informed as soon as possible if the decisions taken by the Health Board also concern them. And as provided for in good administrative practice, these thoughts, statements and opinions must indeed be heard and taken into account accordingly. At this very meeting, we took the decision to send the draft to the second reading of the large hall today and, if the second reading is completed today, the third reading could already take place on Wednesday of this week, 13 May. As I said, we had two meetings of the Commission. At the second meeting, we focused in particular on the amendments and their discussion. There was a very big debate, there were many votes. All the representatives of the political groups who proposed amendments were able to present them. As I said, the Commission also introduced a number of amendments. Some of them are technical in nature and specifically concern the amendment of the Medical Devices Act and this side. However, I think that the most fundamental change introduced by the Commission was the fact that the person or agency concerned must be involved without delay in the whole process, so that he is aware of any measures or decisions being taken against him and that he can quickly find out about them. As I said, after lengthy discussions on the amendments, the Commission decided to propose that the second reading be stopped. That's all for short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U100	Thank you, good waitress. There are a number of questions for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U101	Good manager! Good waitress! Can you imagine that today's management of the Health Board will have the right to prohibit any provision of services and stay outside, to close institutions, cities and counties, to ban public meetings, etc. without being preceded by a transparent political debate or decision at government level? This bill will allow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U102	Thank you. In fact, this draft still deals with the fact that if we are talking about large economic measures, as well as a large part or all of Estonia's restrictive measures, then the government must give it its dobro. Thereafter, the Government shall order the Office to resolve this emergency situation and that Office shall implement the order given to them without delay. So when we talk about big things that affect the lives of a very large number of people, for example, we are again restricting people's movements between islands, this decision has a major impact and the Health Board cannot do so alone. This can only be done by the Health Board as proposed by the Government of the Republic. So in that sense, I don't see a problem or danger here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U103	Liina Kersna, please! [[A voice from the hall.]] Raimond Kaljulaid, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U104	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I am very sorry, I would have asked my question sooner, but I had to go to my office and see the yellow book you referred to, where we could educate ourselves on these issues. Your earlier statement was that "without delay" can mean up to seven days, and that in any case it does not mean what people usually mean when they say "without delay." Page 239 In the yellow book that you have referred to, the President of the sitting must resolve the protest or issue immediately, if necessary, he may also announce a break, interrupting the debate on the agenda. You did not interrupt the debate on the agenda when the members of the Riigikogu, the good colleagues, had completely reasonable and necessary questions. Why did you not interrupt the debate on the item?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U105	Thank you. This procedural question does not belong to this item. Let's keep going. Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U106	Thank you, President of the sitting. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! You have indeed made a very brief overview of what we had in the Commission. We had several hours of discussions, and in these discussions, as you indicated, we also talked greatly about whether the Health Board is prepared for the responsibility that this bill imposes on it. And now I ask you to tell the big hall how the Health Board itself assessed how much they would need extra money and how many more people to be able to bear the responsibility of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U107	Thank you. First of all, I must say, of course, that it was very difficult to manage this whole issue in the Internet age, because the Internet connection was very poor, as it concerns the Health Board and there is nothing to do with this section. But the key messages you had questions about, we found out. First of all, the Health Board, of course, admitted that the responsibility given to them was very great. The second thing they admitted was that this crisis would be stronger, an emergency more severe than it is today, for example, and we might go back a month in time, the resource they have today might not be enough to resolve this whole situation. And they admit that, in view of the future, their profession could be prepared significantly more effectively, for example, for the coming of a second wave. They themselves admit that there have been very different numbers to solve this whole problem. I remember one of the answers given by the Head of the Health Board was that six more people would be needed right now. The second answer was that ten people are needed in the long run. Now that we are talking about the financial figures, the Health Board really admitted that we are talking not only about the positions but, as a whole, about improving the efficiency of this whole agency. This amount was in the order of 1 to 2 million. There was another number, which was 21 million. 21 million was the amount that the Health Board said would need for health care throughout Estonia, so that in future we would be even better prepared for crises like we have today. This requires money not only for the Health Board, but also for all hospitals in Estonia, for personal protective equipment, the whole side. Just to mark that 21 million was said throughout Estonia, because the Health Board's own budget today, if I am not mistaken, is 9 to 10 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U108	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U109	Good Chairman! Good waitress! I am extremely skeptical as to whether the Health Board can do this by looking at his actions to date and, at times, his inaction. But what I do know is that the Minister has judged these grades to be worth '5'. I ask you who you have been able to get closer acquainted with these people in the Commission, and you are also more enlightened and informed: what can the Commission's assessment of their current performance be? Could it also be a five-way? What is your position as chairman of the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U110	Thank you. The Commission as a whole did not give such an assessment of the work of the Agency. However, as I mentioned in my report at first reading, many members of the Commission were extremely critical of the current work of the Health Board and questioned their ability to deal with this issue in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U111	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U112	Thank you. I understand the wish to adopt this bill, but there are still questions. Among other things, it states that the government has the right to provide emergency management to the emergency management authority, which may also be the local authority, as it deals with the provision of a vital service and the disruption of a vital service could lead to an emergency. How do you imagine it from the point of view of the Constitution that the Government of the Republic simply tells the local government what to do, with responsibility falling to the local government? Do you not see here a constitutional problem with regard to the autonomy of the municipality? I will ask you the next question when you have answered it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U113	Thank you. As regards this constitutional assessment and the constitutional compatibility of the draft, I say that we also asked the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu for an opinion. After all, this could be the most representative committee of the Riigikogu in order to evaluate a specific draft. They did not make the comment you referred to. However, they admitted that what concerns the involvement of local authorities could and should be better written into this bill. That is what we did between the first and second readings as a Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U114	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U115	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm gonna ask you a question like that. Some 13 years ago, there was an indication in the law of what are particularly dangerous infectious diseases: plague, cholera, ponds, etc. These are particularly dangerous infectious diseases. But now you have added this cluster law to one law that there is a 'new, dangerous contagious disease'. My question is why you didn't put the word 'especially' between them. After all, this current corona virus turns to plague, cholera, and honey. But this one word has not been put between, even though they are all particularly dangerous infectious diseases. The bill simply says 'new danger'.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U116	Thank you. In my opinion, in the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, everything is written out exactly so that we can anticipate and already anticipate these novel communicable diseases in the law. I don't think we could predict a year ago that the world would have a situation like the end of winter and the beginning of spring brought us. I think that by using the word 'new, dangerous infectious disease', we can also prevent those diseases that we do not yet know today, but which, of course, may God hold back from doing so! For example, come to us in the autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U117	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U118	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! 29 April was the day the Riigikogu began to deal with these provisions. This was not preceded by the normal coordination circle, the involvement of the parties by the Government and the Ministry, and there was no government position. It is clear that this bill has been made at an enormous pace, but hastily mistakes are being made, which have now been pointed out later by the legal scientists. My question is what, apart from the reason that there was a vote, did the Commission reject the proposal of the Social Democratic Party and the Reform Party, which would have allowed the law to be passed for a limited period of time in order to start implementing the law from the beginning of next year, where everything would be thought out and legally sustainable?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U119	Thank you. Above all, I can really say that this proposal was not supported by the Commission, which does not mean that the large hall could not support this proposal if someone called for it to be voted on. I can't speak on behalf of all the members of the Commission, I can talk about my senses. In particular, I think that since the Chancellor of Justice referred to this in his letter and, in fact, the Ministry has admitted this in our conversations, it is indeed ready to come out in the autumn with a new law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. If the Ministry allows this, I believe that we believe them on this issue, and as Parliament, we can always ask them in the autumn how far this law is. If, specifically, one law has such a deadline that, for example, one will come out on the evening of 31 December and the other will no longer apply from 1 January, we now imagine that we will be in the same crisis in December as we were perhaps a month and a half ago, and we will be working on extending one law. I do not think it would be quite reasonable to impose such a specific deadline on a single law. But since this was your proposal, of course the Commission discussed and voted on it, but it did not really support it as a result of the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U120	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Your presentation revealed that a representative of the Health Board was also present at the committee meeting and that there was a debate on how to strengthen the Health Board in the future. Recently, information came through the media that four high-paying PRs were paid at the Health Board. Did you have any mention of how this strengthens the Health Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U122	Thank you. As for the Health Board, we had the Director General of the Health Board, Merike Jürilo, and Martin Kadai, Head of the Emergency Medical Department. The four PR people who have been contracted to the Health Board did not attend our committee meeting, and we did not address this issue either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U123	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U124	Thank you. We've come to a pretty interesting situation. In response to the crisis, the emergency manager has time to personally observe the spread of the virus from the helicopter so that it does not cross the border for God's sake, and he also has time to help zebras, which in a human or animal way are certainly very understandable and nice, but such fundamental changes, including the restriction of people's freedoms, are delegated to the Health Board. We know that the Health Board has a lot of important, responsible tasks following an emergency situation, including preparing for the next waves, planning the organisation of hospital work, drawing conclusions from the current crisis. Do you not think that putting additional tasks on the Agency in this situation is in principle irresponsible if it does not provide enough additional resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U125	Thank you. Once again, we really discussed this in the Commission. The health department was involved. As far as giving them such serious tasks is concerned, they themselves admit that this is a great responsibility. But at the same time, I could ask you the other way around: what kind of occupation in Estonia could one be better able to deal with the prevention and prevention of viral disease or any other infectious disease? For this purpose, we have a Health Board in Estonia. We have two options: either we trust the officials who are there, or we have another option if we don't trust them, then we give them efficiency, resources, more people. We cannot assign this task to the Road Administration, for example. We have the one and only Health Board that can resolve this situation on this issue. So, in that sense, I will stick to the fact that, if we have options on the table which agency is entitled to solve this situation when it comes to an emergency and it is a viral disease or some other infectious disease, then the only competent agency is the Health Board. However, this does not mean that I personally am very satisfied with the work they have done for the last two or three months.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U126	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U127	Good waitress! This is a crisis of much broader significance and a much wider impact than just medically limited. It is an economic, social and psychological situation in society and a restriction of the fundamental right of people to a special situation. Please tell us, the majority of the members of the Riigikogu have not actually received a picture of this bill, how has this bill now been arranged in such a way that the Health Board, who has only medical competence to a certain extent, makes these major decisions, and how has it happened that the government gives the National Health Board a large mandate instead of taking these powers itself, to realise them itself? We haven't actually gotten that picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U128	Thank you. Very important clarification: we are not talking about an emergency, we are talking about an emergency. In fact, I understand that we all want to get out of the emergency situation, put an end to the emergency situation in a week. And, if necessary, if the Health Board so evaluates, the Health Board is one of those agencies that assesses whether an emergency announcement is justified and necessary, the Health Board will deal with the emergency response. For example, the Food and Veterinary Office may, if necessary, declare an emergency and start resolving it. These are the options and opportunities. Now that the question was whether this situation should be resolved by the Health Board, I will say once again that, according to the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, there is no other agency dealing with the prevention and control of communicable diseases. That's right, Health Board. And we give them those rights. The second question was that you say that it is as if the government is giving up this responsibility and role. It's not like that. When we talk about a major impact on society or on the economy, responsibility, as well as political responsibility, remains in the hands of the government, because the government gives orders to an emergency agency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U129	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U130	Thank you, President of the sitting. Honourable waitress! You said in your speech that the Commission made a significant change: the persons concerned must be informed immediately by the Health Board when restrictions are imposed. This is how I understood in the Commission that the obligation to provide information in the context of this draft is only in relation to the local government sub-office and the region. If the Health Board decides to close, for example, a private day-care centre, private school or private care centre, this bill does not require him to inform immediately. Have I understood correctly, or does the bill that we have before us oblige us to inform private companies as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U131	Thank you. This draft law that you have before you, along with the amendment that the Commission has tabled, also obliges private companies to be informed. The person concerned means municipalities, private operators and natural persons. Anyone affected by this decision shall be informed of the decisions taken on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U132	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U133	Thank you. Let me just tell you this: I understand that this was not discussed in the Commission, but before four PR people were recruited, the Health Board already had a communication unit with three employees. So now there are seven employees. With ten more PR people, maybe the situation would be better. However, I ask that if the Health Board can, for example, prohibit the activities of any store, service provider or other company, impose on Rimi, Prisma or Selver, for example, the obligation to hold only public stocks or focus only on the provision of certain products, to ban public demonstrations and thereby protest against the government, to put people under quarantine, to demand the provision of anti-intentional health care on threats to quarantine, etc., it is unfortunately not a bad joke or a nightmare, but a draft prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs. I'm just asking if you really discussed what these rights are. If the county really does come to the government and shuts down the institution, there are some measures in the supplementary budget today to compensate entrepreneurs for the closure of a period of one and a half or two months, but the Health Board does not have these powers and rights to compensate for anything. Why should such a decision be made now? These decisions could also be made through the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U134	Thank you. As I emphasised before, but I can say once again that if these decisions concern a large part of society or the wider economy, they will still be done by the government. If we are talking about one entrepreneur and some kind of restriction on him, then firstly, if the Health Board is going to do so, this decision must be justified. There must be a very clear risk of infection, a virus risk, depending on which decisions can be made. And when we talk about a major impact, such as restricting the movement of island residents or re-closing shopping centres, the Health Board cannot make these decisions on its own. There must be a broader consensus here, and I think that the government must give its approval in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U135	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U136	First Vice-Chairman of the Good Riigikogu! It's a pleasure to see you lead! Good chairman of the committee! First of all, I have to correct you for not declaring an emergency by emergency law. But the emergency situation has a beginning and an end, and there are certain limitations in the emergency situation. The state of emergency gives the government the right to impose these restrictions. Now, by this law, we are actually going there, or rather you are going to go there, that you are restricting people's fundamental rights even outside the emergency situation. The proposal was to limit the validity of this law. Indeed, there may be a situation that there are still some "pieces" at the end of the emergency situation, but since this is still a restriction on the fundamental rights of people, it should have a temporal definition. My colleague Signe asked the same question, but we did not really get the answer. Why do you not support setting time limits in order to avoid disproportionate restrictions on people's fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U137	Thank you. We had a very big debate about the start and end of an emergency. Yes, an emergency situation in the form of a state of emergency is not announced. But in the event of an emergency, the emergency department says he's now starting to deal with the situation in accordance with the emergency law. And when he says the emergency is over, he's done with the emergency. That's one thing. But now that we come to your group's amendment concerning a specific date and the end of the law, I will say once again that I believe that the NETS, the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, needs to be improved, it needs to be clarified. I think that it is still being re-implemented at a time of crisis like this that still reveals bottlenecks. And if the Ministry promised he'd come back with that law in the fall, I'll believe them. As a Parliament, we can always check this in the autumn to see when they come out with it. As a Parliament, we will also be able to withdraw this law ourselves and resolve this problem before 1 January 2021, as you proposed. But simply to put a specific deadline on a single law, the Commission did not approve it. And I will say once again that my own personal sense is that perhaps this is not a proportionate measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U138	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U139	Thank you. In order to understand these changes, we reject the fact that in vitro equipment regulation and emergency are put together here, it just looks ugly, but maybe you explain to the Members of Parliament what the Government of the Republic wants to say to the Health Board on 17 May, because emergency response requires an emergency plan to be approved and coordinated by the Ministry of Internal Affairs in accordance with the Emergency Act and other details and procedures. Perhaps you will explain, however, that it is possible to vote in favour of this law and that you will help to understand why people's fundamental rights are being restricted outside the emergency situation. We need to understand that. As Chairman of the Commission and other members of the Commission, have you been told what are the measures that these rapid changes want to impose on people after the emergency situation has ended?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U140	Thank you. In your speech, you referred to the fact that this draft has been dealt with and the fact that one draft has entered into both the medical device law and the emergency law and everything else to this point, that it does not look good. I agree with you, it doesn't look good. But in an emergency, in a busy time, maybe it takes a slightly different approach. But in the past, I'm quite in agreement with you. Now, your question: what is the concrete implementation of this law by the Health Board? No, we were not presented with such a detailed overview of the specific implementation plan in the Commission. However, I have understood this, and the representatives of the ministry have also assured us that it is a desire to move from an emergency situation to an emergency situation so that we can continue to be able to fight the spread of viral disease in an operational and strong way. This means that these restrictions, which are sensible today and which need to be implemented in the future, can also be implemented at a time when the emergency situation is not in place, and can also be resolved in the event of an emergency. In fact, it seems to me that as time goes on, the less we talk about restrictions that apply in the same way throughout Estonia. We are still talking very clearly about specific local problems and solving them. One nursing home, one block, a virus-sick-- we limit the movement of people in this block, we test, we take out infected and exposed people, and we can move on accordingly. That is my vision and understanding so that we can move forward smoothly so that we, as a society and as people, do not feel that our fundamental rights are being violated and can cope with the spread of this virus disease in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U141	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You mentioned that EUR 1 to 2 million and 6 to 10 additional people would improve the ability of the Health Board to work. My question is this: how did those interest groups that you mentioned earlier in your presentation, the members of the Commission, the members of the government, feel about this? What was their opinion on the competence of the Health Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U143	Thank you. As I mentioned earlier, and it is very important to clarify this once again, we are not only talking about manning six or ten places and EUR 1 to 2 million. In the case of the Health Board as a whole, however, we are talking about improving the effectiveness of the prevention and eradication of the consequences, so that if we are faced with these same problems and issues in the future, we can resolve these situations more quickly. After all, today we see that the Health Board has not made all decisions with perhaps 100% accuracy. But in order for us to be able to better prevent these situations in the future and to prevent them from getting out of the way, it may be necessary to give this agency more strength and resources, and, most importantly, to ensure that they are able to keep the wage levels of their employees in a way that enables us to hire the best specialists in Estonia's understanding of the best epidemiologists and virologists who can deal with this problem in terms of preventing it, as well as eliminating the consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U144	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U145	Good manager! Good waitress! Everything is concentrated like the Emergency Act and the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, but the rest of the cluster is completely intact. And now that the Minister has said that I am going to touch on these other things, in his opinion, neither the European Union Regulation (MDR) falls under the MSS nor the TNVS, my question is what do you think of it as the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Do you or do you not get into a conflict of laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U146	Thank you. What you have already referred to at first reading, and what you are referring to now, indeed, here we are talking about abbreviations, here we are talking about transposition of the directive. Here we are talking about the need for us to transpose a European Union directive on medical devices, which will be in force in 2021. We are referring here to the fact that when we transpose this directive, the other directives that we now have will no longer apply. This concerns, in particular, medical devices, their verification, application, commissioning and this procedure. I must honestly admit that, as far as medical devices are concerned, this is largely a relatively technical draft and perhaps a complex draft in terms of the use of abbreviations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U147	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U148	Good manager! Good waitress! Hanno Pevkur started the question in the context of an emergency, that when we move from emergency to emergency. However, when we look at Chapter 5 of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, we are not really talking about an emergency or emergency situation at all, but we are talking about the right of the Health Board to introduce quarantine and, under § 28, additional restrictions to prevent the epidemic spread of communicable diseases. Perhaps these situations are different, as described in the Emergency Act. They have nothing to do with it. And that is why I would like to ask that, if during normal times the Estonian people are unpleasantly surprised by the spread of a disease or some other situation, whether it is proportionate that we have really placed the responsibility of the Health Board that it must also impose national restrictions, if necessary, until public meetings are organised and the provision of services is suspended. I would also like to remind you that, at the Social Affairs Committee, I also asked the Health Board how they are prepared to do so in four and a half working days' time, they will have to start making these decisions. And Mrs Merilo replied briefly that the government would come to their aid to make these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U149	Thank you. As I said, every decision made by the Health Board must be justified. No decisions can be made lightly by the Health Board. There must still be certain clear preconditions, particularly as regards the quarantine of people or the temporary closure of some establishments. This must be a situation where there really is a risk of a contagious disease spreading, and there is a risk to human health. These decisions cannot be made lightly and were referred to by all concerned. If we look at this debate that has taken place, everyone will admit that this bill creates a clearer picture. Health authorities need to be given rights if we want them to either prevent or resolve these situations. That's one of the options on the table today. But as I said before, if we were to take all this NETS, then yes, we all admit that autumn could be the time when we came back to this law as a whole to go over all the bottlenecks that are and make it even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U150	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U151	Thank you. You said you weren't happy with everything the Health Board has done. But I don't think there's any reason to be satisfied that the Health Board was sent to battle in the arms of "peacetime" and "peacetime." They cannot fully succeed if they are not given the resources to do so unless they are given the means to do so, unless they are given additional persons. It's just not possible. A certain kind of burnout is unfortunately inevitable in this case and the responsibility lies primarily with the government, not so much with the Health Board, which basically went against the division. Now, I have a question of responsibility. If a member of the government is wrong in dealing with the crisis and, for example, ridicules the virus, he will be reminded of it for months, if not years. If the caller of the Health Board is wrong, the next caller will be found and everything will continue anonymously. Do you sense the difference? Restricting people must also be accompanied by political responsibility and cannot be given lightly to a single agency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U152	Thank you. On what you referred to in your speech, I have actually said in advance that I admit it. The resource given to the Health Board and its proper use are important keywords. Was there enough resources to deal with the situation we had in the country? This subject needs a broader assessment, a broader debate, and I think that these discussions and assessments are still ahead. We in the Commission as a whole did not really make such an assessment. Now, from what you mentioned, political responsibility or the responsibility of the administration. Reading the press, where the debate has been held within the framework of this same bill, has, in my opinion, made it very clear that in fact the Health Board is supervised by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Ministry of Social Affairs has its own political responsibility, which is the Minister. The minister, in turn, belongs to the government. The government can take collective political responsibility. The work of the Government is managed by the Prime Minister, who can also take political responsibility for these draft laws. And then, of course, there is Parliament that monitors and monitors the work of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U153	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U154	Good President! Good chairman of the committee! There has been a lot of talk here about such a thrilling attitude. I, too, do not understand why, now that the crisis has not yet ended, the emergency situation has not ended and no analyses have been carried out of which laws need to be amended, come here with a small piece of the hall, which has created great special insights. After all, the Nets in force today gives the right, in principle, to lay down all these restrictions in cooperation with the local government, which have been discussed a great deal here. I continue to think very clearly that when we talk about the emergency law, its amendment must begin in the key that the Department of the Interior, which has experience and competence to do so, must lead the resolution of civil crises, and the Ministry of Defence must lead the military crises. We can give the Health Board as much money and rights as we want, but they don't deal with it on a daily basis, they don't have that experience. My question is this: why are we doing this today and discussing this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U155	Thank you. I think that the easiest answer to overcome the legal disputes that we have encountered in this emergency situation is to determine what kind of responsibility some agency has and what its role is. Today we will try to formulate it more accurately and more clearly. The Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out in his letter that this bill is a step towards clarity and justice, but it is not the last step, but it is necessary to move forward in the autumn and to complement what has been done so far. Another thing that the Chancellor of Justice has said: this draft law clearly brings together the principles that need different solutions both in the context of the emergency and the Nets. At the moment, these principles may be a little too spread out. This is the vision of the government and, at the moment, the vision of the Commission that, in this form, we are bringing together this information and increasing legal clarity, making it clearer. But, of course, it is the debate that best makes it clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U156	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U157	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr President of the Commission. Listening to your answers, I understand that you have brought yourself up to date on this subject and on this subject, which is understandable. But here's my question. If this law had already been in force in February, what could have been different in March, April and now? This question is speculative, there are no situations, but I do hope that you will describe it a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U158	Thank you. We have been discussing this in the Commission, not formally, but still. Once again, I can't say we haven't announced an emergency situation, but that's one way to go. Today's Emergency Act provides significantly more opportunities and measures to deal with the crisis we had. However, this does not rule out that, for example, if the second wave comes in autumn and the virus starts to spread widely again in society, perhaps we should not immediately declare the emergency situation to solve the problem, but we could rely on the current, acceptable emergency law and other related laws. So this is maybe this one difference and this one difference. And once again, I think it is also important that, if today this emergency manager, who is the Prime Minister, solves this emergency situation, then in the future, this responsibility or role may be broader and still be in the hands of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U159	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, One amendment to this draft relates to the fact that the right to decide on the closure of, for example, kindergartens and institutions is withdrawn from the municipality and handed over to the Health Board. According to the current law, I understand this right is for the local government, which must consult the Health Board when making this decision. Did you discuss what the problem is here? I would dare say that our local authorities are actually quite capable. They perceive local conditions very well, I think that best, because if an infection occurs, this information will probably reach the teacher and then the municipality, for example, in kindergarten. Communication between the Health Board and the municipality is also possible to make it work, and I think it will work. Why are we restricting it? Why can't the municipality decide and the Health Board help him make these decisions within the limits of his competence?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U161	Thank you. Once again, we have had this debate. Both the Cities and Municipalities Association and the Commission were involved in this, the Ministry, the Health Board. I admit that this is one of the most important points of debate on this issue. Now, we have supplemented the wording you quoted with one amendment. We are no longer talking about the head of a child or care establishment, but we are talking about the keeper; this is a slightly broader concept. We also changed the word 'care institution', put'social service provider', I guess, if I'm not mistaken, I can look up the exact wording right here. But once again, the Health Board told us that if they make these decisions, and I think it is reasonable that we give the right to make such a decision to the Health Board in particular, because the decision may concern several municipalities, then they should be equally understandable, rather than differing from one municipality to another, if we are talking about the need for both municipalities to apply, for example, some measure. That's one thing. Secondly, the Health Board said that they would not imagine taking a decision on the territory of the municipality that would affect the local government on a daily and very large scale, so that they would not involve a representative of the local government as soon as possible in the discussion process. In this sense, I sincerely believe and hope that the fear that the Health Board will somehow roll over local authorities is very unfounded. Indeed, we have put in this wording today that yes, the logical order is that if there is an emergency and there is an accident, then first we will save people's lives and health and then we will get involved. But these processes can run in parallel, information can take place in parallel with resources and capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U162	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U163	Good vice chairman! Good waitress! I have two questions. The first is this: what do you think the failure of the Health Board in this crisis is it a misinterpretation of information and research, or is it a weak PR or reputational job? And the second question: who will decide, for example, whether the Health Board will apply the penalty payment or whether we will still remain in force § 192 and 193 of the Penal Code?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U164	Thank you. As regards the paragraphs that you have mentioned, I must say honestly here that we did not consider these issues from this perspective in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U165	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U166	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, Is the Health Board itself prepared to assume such responsibility? Was there a debate on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U167	Thank you. Once again, this debate, as I mentioned earlier, was a long one with the Health Board. The health department admitted that their responsibility would be great. The workers in these regions are well prepared and ready to do so, but they admit that in a crisis situation where even more labour is needed, perhaps even more financial resources, even more preparation to prevent, this side actually needs to be improved, one might even say helping. And I think that a very important role here is that, if we really see that this situation can escalate again in the autumn, we would already, proactively, give the Health Board more strength and resources so that they can deal with this issue in depth and rightly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U168	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I hope that time will discuss whether the Health Board had problems managing this crisis or whether the problem was due to the fact that the government had so different signals and that they were very difficult to communicate to the people. But one thing I could hear from your answers, please specify or deny, if I am wrong, was that when it comes to a local crisis and like local restrictions, the damage to the company is not important. I can't really agree with that. In the case of local constraints, its impact may not only be felt in the case of this local enterprise but also in the case of enterprises linked to it, and this may mean quite a financial loss. How have you tried, or are you willing to solve it, or how does this law provide an opportunity to resolve it so that there are no unjustified disappearances?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U170	Thank you. Once again, first of all, what you said in your introductory speech or before the question was asked, I agree that an analysis of the work of the Health Board and of the overall functioning of the state apparatus in this crisis is ahead. After all, we have not come out of this crisis and, in fact, these setbacks, perhaps in particular economic setbacks and social problems, are still ahead of us and also need to be resolved. But when we talk specifically about dealing with this viral disease, I sincerely hope that one day we will be able to read a serious and meaningful analysis of it. I do not rule out the Auditor General making his own little review, but I certainly expect a broader analysis, for example, from the Ministry of Social Affairs, which specifically concerns the work of the Health Board. Now, the question was about the local problem. Perhaps I made a mistake earlier, but the question of Aivar Koka was that if the Health Board imposes any restrictions on entrepreneurs and they have a major economic impact, whether the respective decisions are taken by the Health Board or by the government. I said that if there is a major economic impact, then the decision will still be made by the government and will be ordered by the Health Board, who will implement it. Why I say this and I mention it is important, because today the government is also proposing measures to help and boost the companies that are actually affected by these restrictions and to whom they have the greatest economic impact. There is also an economic dimension to the closure of a small company with a viral disease. People there may not be able to go to work for a while, the contract partners will not be able to get the orders in time. These problems are all ahead of us. But once again, we had it under discussion. And I repeat here, in my opinion, it was the Chancellor of Justice who said this, that if the decision of the Health Board is justified and complies fully with the law or acceptable law and restriction in force today, or the decision is made on the basis of the interests and protection of human health, then there will be no right to claim compensation for economic damage. But while the Health Board makes these arrangements and some companies feel that they are being harmed and that the law has not provided for them, of course, it is always possible for them to go to court to defend their rights. But that's the last thing I'm suggesting. I sincerely hope that, when the Health Board makes such decisions, it will involve as much as possible of those affected by this situation, but above all, it must be based on the protection of health.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U171	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U172	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I come back to my previous question. It was as if your response understood that if a number of municipalities had to make certain decisions, the Health Board would centrally be easier to make this decision, it would not have to give this message or a common wording to different municipalities. But the other way around, as he approaches on an institutional basis, I think that the problem arises that, whether it is a city or a whole municipality, if he has to close five kindergartens there, for example, he has to deal with five institutions and not one municipality. In my opinion, it takes considerably more resources. Local circumstances are still better known by the municipality, and in the end there are fewer parties to communicate with, assess and communicate with. When you come to the question, you have repeatedly said that the Health Board probably needs additional resources to cope better, better salaries, etc. Is there any specific recommendation from the Commission to the government in this regard, or has the government itself come up with some initiative? We're saying it's necessary and it'd be nice if it was. It is obvious that when we give additional tasks, additional resources are also needed. But will this be followed by actions and could they be preceded by assignments or at least parallel?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U173	Thank you. If I am not mistaken, I believe that the law in force today states that the municipality can apply the restriction, but it can only do so in accordance with or with the approval of the Health Board. So actually, we're going to turn this situation around: the Health Board is going to give us some kind of coordination, but it's going to involve local authorities. And I say once again that when we talk about several municipalities, in the ideal situation, the decision should not be made by the Health Board, but by looking at a broader and 'greater picture', and in making these decisions, the responsibility must be assumed by the Government of the Republic, which will give the Health Board an order that the agency will carry out. But I will say once again that the priority is to involve the local authority affected by the decision and to involve it in the sense that it can really contribute and think along. This situation can be very quickly and operationally needed. In this sense, I think that the competence and role of the Health Board is greater than that of some local authorities, I do not know that we would have virologists or epidemiologists working in local governments today, for example, who would be able and willing to make such assessments or carry out analyses. But you had another question, and I'm gonna answer it now. This question concerned 1 to 2 million people, a broad view, jobs and that. No, that kind of message, the specific date the government gives the Health Board extra resources, I can't tell you. But I understand that today the Health Board is also able, at the expense of its resources, to improve and practice this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U174	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U175	Thank you. On 9 March, the National Defence Commission discussed the organisation of crisis resolution within the framework of the National Defence Act at its meeting. Martin Kadai from the Health Board also sat behind the table. Since the word of the executive was extremely round, I set up a hypothesis in the form of a very specific case that, if, for example, four COVID positives were discovered in different areas of Saaremaa within 24 hours, who is doing what and who is responsible for what. The answer was that the general principles of public health were respected. I asked the question, and I got exactly the same answer. How does this bill change these answers? Does that make it better?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U176	Thank you. It still makes the situation better, in my opinion. The Agency will have a very clear role and very clear rights, but also very clear obligations to fulfil and assume responsibility for this role. When we talk about what you have given a concrete example here, I understand that first, health professionals working in the region assess the situation on the ground, pass on this information and it moves to the Health Board in accordance with their internal rules. But once again, I'm saying this is my vision of the thing that we're going towards clarity. And this is not only my vision, but also very many other people, including members of the Riigikogu, have said that the law currently in force in this form may not give this legal clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U177	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U178	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I will continue with your answer. I think that this draft does not go towards clarity, but rather obscures the responsibility that local governments have for these obligations. How can you even imagine that information about these so-called critical situations will reach the Health Board if specific municipalities are not involved? I can't imagine. There is one good word set such as 'informed consent'. Nothing can work unless it is done right from the start with those for whom it is needed. Perhaps this is not my question now, but I think I will ask the Minister in the future, as I have already asked: what is the difference between the specialists of the Estonian and Swedish Health Board? We don't have the probability that we could actually ask for a list of any epidemiologists who would have actually worked in a bacterial site somewhere. We have a lot of theorists and we know how to put together beautiful drafts, but we'd like them to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U179	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U180	You can't answer that. It was more like a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U181	I understand your point, the question. What is the experience of our Health Board staff, especially epidemiologists and virologists, and do they have a broad view of the spread of viral diseases and infectious lesions in the world? I am indebted to the answer to this question, but I admit, in fact, that I mentioned it in my previous answers, that I think it is very important that we are also competitive in the health department in terms of wages and that we have the opportunity to hire the best specialists in Estonia who can assess these situations. And, of course, it is very important what you mentioned that these specialists have a real experience of life itself, not only that they have written something on paper, so-called 'prepared', through. They should still have a real experience of life itself, what it means to spread viral disease, how it can be prevented in practice, what to do when the virus has reached the country's territory, and how to fight the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U182	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U183	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, You have presented the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but you have not presented the opinion of the National Defence Committee on this draft law. There's been a little contradiction written in there. Maybe you'll introduce the opinion of the National Defence Committee. That's one. And secondly, I ask the second question as a second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U184	Thank you. That's very reasonable, one question at a time. In fact, I did not present any specific Commission position. I mentioned, in the context of the questions, the answers to this part. However, in my first reading report, I mentioned the opinions expressed by all three Riigikogu committees. As I said, the Committee on Economic Affairs strongly supported the swift processing of this draft and said that it was a positive undertone and content. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs said that the involvement of cities and municipalities is an important issue that should be reviewed. And the Committee on National Defence, which also gave its opinion, once again pointed out that in their vision, leadership should perhaps be concentrated in the hands of one person, such as a minister, whose role may not be so clearly defined in today's law. Their vision was that one person would be able to deal with this problem more operationally and more quickly than it might be possible to give this responsibility more widely. It was such a basic keyword.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U185	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U186	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm gonna take a step back. We have talked quite thoroughly here, for example, about the organisational capacity of the Health Board to manage different situations. In my opinion, however, we have hardly talked about what the Riigikogu plays in limiting such important fundamental rights. In my opinion, this is one of the most important areas to be examined before sub-delegating further decision-making. I therefore ask what these considerations were in the Commission in order not to take time off and allow the current situation, or the emergency situation, to continue. It's all legal, there's no obstacle, there's also experience. What were the reasons why the emergency situation could not be extended until, for example, the end of the year with reduced restrictions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U187	Thank you. To start with, I say that sometimes it makes sense to take a step backwards so that we can take two steps forward together. However, as regards the special situation and its duration, for example, until the end of the year, I think that we did not have such a hypothetical debate, so what if the special situation were to last until the end of this year. I think this particular situation requires a very special situation and a very special situation to be resolved. And I think that today this emergency law, which we are adopting in the event that we are still adopting it, will also provide opportunities to cope with this situation. In fact, we see that the situation, which was very serious in Estonia a month ago, has become considerably less severe, we have been able to control the spread of viral disease in Estonia. One might say that the coefficient of infection, which we have had for a long time, is less than 1, shows a positive trend, which is that the disease is no longer spreading so widely. We can see that there are significantly fewer people in the hospital, and we can see that there are significantly fewer people under the breathing apparatus. This shows that we, as a country as a whole, have dealt with the eradication of this viral disease. So I think it's a reasonable place to get out of this emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! If I remember correctly, the Chancellor of Justice has pointed out that the people of Estonia are relatively easily prepared to give up their freedoms. The question of restricting personal freedoms and the possible role of the Riigikogu has been raised several times in this Chamber. Indeed, much attention has not been paid to our role here. But what gives the hope that if there is another wave, it will be possible to implement the Emergency Act instead of the Emergency Act to resolve this situation? Another wave might be the same or worse, according to some experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U189	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U190	Thank you. This example, which I have given in reply to Mr Urve Tiidus' question, was rather an example, and I will say again that it was a hypothesis. We don't really know if the second wave is coming today. We don't really know if the second wave is more dangerous than the first wave, or if it's coming down. We also don't know which strain of this virus is it mutating, is it getting worse, or is it getting lighter? We do not know what has happened by autumn, for example, whether a medicine or a vaccine has been developed by then. There is actually a very large number of variables that are unpredictable today, and in that sense I may have been too premature when I said that the emergency situation in the autumn will certainly not be announced. No, no, I don't dare say that. However, I will say once again that the clarification of today's Emergency Act and the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases will provide a clearer role for the Health Board, but not only to deal with the consequences, but specifically for prevention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U191	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U192	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, When an emergency was announced on March 12, it was known that it would not last until the end of time, but at some point it would end. When the Ministry of Social Affairs introduced us to the first supplementary budget package and listed the financial allocations, activities, unemployment benefits and everything else, there was no additional financial means for the Health Board. During this time, a cluster bill was prepared for the button, the medical device law sewn the coat that we have here today and brought to our tables. Do you have any information that there are additional resources in the second supplementary budget, now that you have listened to what the Health Board actually told us, while still presenting at the committee meeting? Are you convinced that these instruments are there so that the Agency can do its job well?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U193	I am not convinced that the second supplementary budget will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U194	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U195	Thank you. Good waitress! I will continue on the role of the Riigikogu. In my opinion, what this law or draft wants to achieve is de facto the granting of emergency rights without declaring an emergency situation. I don't think it's a good practice. There have been many critical opinions on this from highly respected legal experts, both the Chancellor of Justice, the Chairman of the Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court and many others. Perhaps you will specify how you dealt with these risks in the committee and how you dealt with the role of the Riigikogu in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U196	Thank you. I may disagree here. I, too, have read this letter from the Chancellor of Justice several times, and I do not see the critical undertone referred to by some members of the Riigikogu. Rather, there I see such an objective view of the whole draft package, I even perceive a positive undertone. As I said, we asked the Commission for expert advice from the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. I assume that the Constitutional Committee is the most competent body in the Riigikogu in terms of giving an expert opinion on the Constitution. There are experts in their field together, and their vision was such that this bill is absolutely constitutional. But they really referred to the lack of autonomy in terms of the involvement of local authorities. And in my opinion, we have managed to overcome this narrowly relevant person immediately. This means that the local authority must be involved in making these decisions, following good administrative practice. Those are important keywords. I think the Chancellor of Justice, too, when we had him in the Commission, said that he did not see a great constitutional barricade here or what big, he does not see any constitutional barricade here at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U197	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U198	Thank you. Mr. Mölder, try again! I am not a member of this committee, and I am not a specialist in this draft, but I have a problem. The health department is trained to deal with health problems, medical matters. Now he is given a mandate, which I did not actually understand well in your presentation, to decide on the fundamental rights, the way people live and how society is organised in general. I have said from the outset that this is not just a medical crisis, it is much more multidimensional. Please describe to me how this line has been drawn so that the Health Board can really only decide on medical matters, without affecting too many other matters that I mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U199	Thank you. Prevention and control of infectious disease is, in my opinion, a health issue. However, only the Health Board can assess this competence. But once again, I will say briefly that the Government of the Republic will be given the opportunity to give orders to the authority in charge of the emergency response. Which agency solves an emergency depends on an emergency. In the case of an emergency which has a significant social or economic impact, the Government of the Republic will intervene. Once again, I think that decisions affecting the big economy cannot be taken by the Health Board. In such a case, the government will still be involved in its knowledge, and these decisions will be taken accordingly, and then the emergency agency will be ordered. In the current situation it is the Health Board; in the future it may be the Veterinary and Food Board or, I don't know, the Police and Border Guard Board. These situations can be very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U200	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U201	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I have a very simple question. There were some pretty critical questions about the coalition in this hall. Does the whole coalition agree that this bill is going in the right direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U202	Thank you. If I wanted to make some kind of assumption, I could say that when I voted on various decisions in the Commission, the vision of the three coalition parties seemed uniform to me and did not always match the proposals from the opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U203	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U204	Good manager! Honourable waitress! I've listened to your presentation and the discussion here. Among other things, there was the sound of the Chancellor of Justice being positive about this bill and finding it to be a very good draft. However, here before me is a letter from the Chancellor of Justice from the beginning of May, which he concludes by concluding that the Riigikogu may also consider restricting the validity of the provisions of the draft if it so wishes. There is no indication that he would applaud this bill unequivocally. How do you comment on that? And what do you still think of the Chancellor of Justice's idea that the Riigikogu might consider limiting the validity of the draft provisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U205	Thank you. You said at the beginning of your question that you have listened very carefully. I have actually answered that question twice already, but I will answer it again for the third time. Firstly, the Chancellor of Justice has publicly stated that he considers this draft to be a step in the right direction. But he says very clearly that this is not the last step. In his opinion, we should return to this topic in the autumn. And as you yourself pointed out, he says in this letter that he has been promised by the Ministry of Social Affairs that this draft, which concerns the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, will be brought back to the proceedings in the autumn and that the Riigikogu will be able to discuss this issue again. Indeed, the Chancellor of Justice proposes one option. Whether or not the Riigikogu is using this opportunity, as I said, the Commission did not support these amendments. This does not mean, however, that the large hall can't decide anything else. This is the decision-making power of the Riigikogu, and that is what the Chancellor of Justice refers to very clearly in his letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U206	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U207	Thank you. Today tends to be such a day that words are, unfortunately, twisted in this Riigikogu hall quite arbitrarily. The same letter from the Chancellor of Justice, to which I referred above, says that the draft law 165 reduces the problems of applicability, but nevertheless stresses the need for a comprehensive, clear and carefully considered regulation, and once again, as referred to in the preceding question, says that the Riigikogu may consider limiting the period of validity of the provisions of the draft. As Chairman of the Commission during the committee's debate, did you support the proposals that were the result of the Chancellor of Justice's point of view in this regard? And are you ready to support them now in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U208	Thank you. Let this sentence be read out of the letter of the Chancellor of Justice, for the sake of the verbatim report very clearly and unambiguously: 'The Riigikogu may also consider limiting the period of validity of the draft provisions and oblige the Government of the Republic to submit, for example, a new draft law on prevention and control of communicable diseases by autumn. 'It says 'if you want' and 'for example', it doesn't say that there must be an autumn. But once again, the Ministry has said in its debate, and in this letter the Chancellor of Justice also says that the Ministry has said that they are ready to come back to this topic in the autumn. Now, as regards the concrete proposal made by the Commission that we should set a deadline for this draft, you could even say a deadline, I will say once again that I do not support it in the sense that I do not think this is the right approach. For example, we may have a situation in which we are in a major crisis in December of this year, and the Riigikogu may be dealing with more important issues, and then, for example, this one law that is needed to resolve this situation will expire. I don't think this is a good practice. On the other hand, I admit that we have the levers as a parliament to come back to this bill in the autumn. Every political group is able to pass the law, the entire Riigikogu is able to initiate it, but we also have the right and opportunity to ask the Minister, the Ministry, where is the law and come back to its debate in the autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U209	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. The members of the Riigikogu now have the opportunity to participate in the negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U210	Good vice chairman! Good guardians of the Republic! We have all taken an oath here to protect the Estonian people. This time, it is not a question for me that runs along the line between the opposition and the coalition, but rather one that no one can argue about anymore, the Health Board could not carry out the task assigned to it. It's clear, there were shortcomings. When we asked whether there were shortcomings in reading and understanding information, or whether it was a poor imagery work, it may seem that it was like a reputational job, that we were taking on the image designers and the crisis if it wasn't. I say the opposite of that, a pretty serious deficit, and it was still a lack of understanding of the information, the experiences of other countries. And now today we're thinking about what we should do. They don't change horses halfway. Let's just say the Government of the Republic has been like a good race here, jumping over all kinds of obstacles, but we also have some kind of pony that's dragging children, and now we're going to take the message to another country with this pony. There's no point! Let this pony grow up to be such a great stud, maybe then we can do it. I understand that there are really problems in human resources policy. But if the Health Board has failed in the current situation and we give them this responsibility, will it also increase their competence? I'm not so sure about that. Today, it is not responsible to give such a task to those people who think themselves that they may not be able to do better than they have done so far. This is not about giving millions of euros to and from there, but about people's lives. At this point, I would like to say that I do not think that we can give them this task right now, because I understand that many of the officials there are confined to their jobs. However, since they do not have competence or want to understand information adequately or take decisions or face reality, it is a problem. The Minister of Social Affairs is now saying that most people think that the Health Board has failed to do its job, that he will give their work a '5' grade. But I will end with such a more positive note that the time will come when we have a minister who sees a problem and dares to admit it and dares to take decisions, not to put coalition partners in such a difficult position. Despite the fact that the problem has been in the middle of the room and it's painted red, somehow it's not noticed. To whom, then, do we trust these decisions forever and ever? There are two options. Perhaps, first of all, the Health Board should restructure itself and show that it now has this capacity so that we, as ambassadors, can assign this task to them with the certainty that it is our best decision. But the chairman of the committee says that who else will we assign this task to? There's a great dragon in the village, you know, who every midsummer wants young virgins, but the knights are extinct. But who else do we assign this task to? Let's give the village to the fools, because who else do we give it to? This is our village, we've come here to make the best decisions, and we're in a state of compulsion, we have to give this task to somebody. The Government of the Republic succeeded: it declared an emergency, declared an emergency situation at night, and can also return to emergency situations. I trust the government. But I'm sorry, I'm gonna say this on this remote control for the second time, based on what I've done now, I don't trust. Maybe you all have this kind of youth worker's soul inside, which says, well, the first three times maybe it will, but maybe the fourth time it'll start wearing its neck and walking straight. But again, we are not talking about millions of euros, we are talking about public health, about the health of our own people. Three-quarters of my constituents do not support the delegation of these tasks to the Health Board and one-quarter do. Well, I guess I'm starting with the one who chose me here, not the Health Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U211	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U212	Good manager! Good guys in the hall! We have before us an excellent example of bad legislation. Something needed to be done quickly, a random body was selected, and it was welded to the essential gadget side. I would stress that what is actually needed is its content. For example, if we had a ballet law here, then we could easily have welded to the abortion law, because ballerinas also have abortions from time to time. But this time the body was the medical device law and the necessary widget was to give the Health Board greater authority, otherwise the emergency situation cannot be stopped on Sunday and anyone can be quarantined or restricted from Monday, if necessary. At the same time, it is exceptionally absurd to give more powers to an agency that we do not trust. The agency, led by another bureaucrat who did not know the subject and who, in February, when the corona virus waved his wings vigorously, assured the government that we did not have a problem with it, and where an ambitious nurse official works who, on 3 March, allowed Italian volleyball players from the outbreak to infect Saaremaa. It's about the same as the VTA, remember? just, which closed down the largest factories in the sector during the listerial scandal, although there was no order from the Minister and European Union law did not foresee such a thing. So, in fact, we would support the formation of a similar monster if we were to give the Health Board such authority and power by law. However, we do have bureaucrats that have been appointed in advance by the Senior Officials' Committee. Let's just remember those same VTAs! So, in fact, you can put any official in charge of some kind of office, state office, and professional competence doesn't matter today environmental, tomorrow health, the day after tomorrow veterinary, sometime perhaps the language department or any other profession. But even more important are the laws according to which the Estonian state works and which you and I will adopt here. Are they unambiguously understood and in clear Estonian? You know it's not. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has rightly said that the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases, or the NETS, is particularly confusing. Indeed, restrictions can only be imposed, quarantined, if it is a particularly dangerous infectious disease, such as a plague, cholera, or honey. But the corona is not one of them, and therefore we weld three words of this law to "new, dangerous infectious disease," not to mention it as a novel and particularly dangerous infectious disease, such as plague, cholera, and honey. By the way, there's no pandemic flu on this list. In the 2007 National Audit Office's report, look at and read.It is stated directly that in the case of pandemic influenza, quarantine cannot be imposed because it is not included in the list of diseases, although the likelihood of an outbreak of pandemic influenza is high and the consequences are very serious. What do I mean by that? What I want to say is that, in fact, the report of the National Audit Office mentions what kind of bickering went on 13 years ago. Read it! It says, for example, how the Minister of the Interior was at that time our good colleague, Kalle Laanet, who thought that in fact the Ministry of Social Affairs should deal with the emergency situation. The Minister of Social Affairs was then Jaak Aab, even now he is a minister, and he thought that no, he did not want such powers, he only deals with health. So, in fact, this whole area has been like mush and cabbages. There has been a division and many things have not been done, and now that we have been forced to impose an emergency situation, it had to be done in the oilseed rapes. All in all, this bill is an excellent example of very bad legislation, but there is nothing to be done. Something here is important and very important, especially to give authority to some of the agencies, but to whom do you give? To the Language Board or to the Veterinary and Food Board? That's all the Health Board's gonna be. But the only way is here...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U213	Would you like some extra time? Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U214	I think it's pretty clear that before we give this Molech more strength, these leaders must be replaced. And I think that's what's gonna happen. If the company is properly cleansed and we have found truly competent leaders there, then it is also possible to strengthen this agency. Otherwise, I agree with Tarmo Kruusimägi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U215	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U216	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, on Wednesday, I was on this very bill when I first read it. And what was I talking about? I was talking about a request by the Minister for Social Affairs about why this bill is needed. Legal clarity is the main objective that is being discussed. On the other side, I was talking about rushing the circuit a week ago. And now, today we hear and see that these two things are not going to be legal clarity and haste. There is a great deal of confusion about this pending draft. I also criticised the fact that this is a cluster bill. Today, I was assured again that my criticism was appropriate. We've been talking here for two hours about a bill that's originally been a medical device bill. Colleagues had one question about this law; for the rest of the time, we have spent our legal clarity on a non-legislative amendment that wants one. And this one is what we all want, we in this hall and the people outside this hall to end the special situation, to return to normal life as painlessly as possible. But it's not that simple. Firstly, ordinary life does not wait for us right now, but we get to it step by step and rationally. And on the other hand, what is this special situation? The emergency is not about itself. The emergency situation is a legal design to take certain steps, to manage the situation we have come into, and to impose obligations and restrictions on the various parties in this situation. It's a legal construction we're actually talking about. And if we want to leave the emergency situation now, we actually need another legal structure that would give us the opportunity to do so. I would like to remind you here that not very long ago, in 2017, the Emergency Act was passed between the walls of this very hall. This is the law by which the legislator told all the people of Estonia in this hall that yes, we want restrictions on personal freedoms, restrictions on meetings, restrictions on public events, restrictions on the provision of services and the movement of goods, closures of institutions, restrictions on public gatherings can only be applied in emergency situations and only under the orders of the emergency manager. That was the legislator's wish three years ago. Now we have reached a real emergency for the first time and, for the first time, we realise that this plan was not well thought out. We had thought out how to get into this situation, but not how to get out of this situation in a step-by-step way. This draft, which has been here for two hours, is likely to offer an even longer discussion, as the legal scientists have expressed their views and highlighted the issues that need to be resolved. First of all, the role of the Riigikogu legislator in restricting fundamental rights is inherent and we are responsible for that. If we give a third party the right to restrict personal freedoms, fundamental rights, it must be very well thought out and weighed. I have previously spoken in this Chamber about the purpose and proportionality of restricting fundamental rights. Here, too, these same questions are on the table. Legal experts have highlighted the problem of the right to challenge any administrative decision. Yes, it is true that the administrative decision of the Health Board can be challenged. I'll take extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U217	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U218	Thank you! However, the orders issued by the Government of the Republic independently, which can replace the decisions of the Health Board, are not contested because there is no legal possibility to challenge the government's orders. The next problem is competition for administrative decisions. At the last moment, the law tried to correct this, but the independent restrictions imposed by the local government under the Law of Law Enforcement are now in competition with the restrictions imposed by the Health Board or by the government. We have not done an analysis, we do not really know what the practical consequence is of the situation we want out of, we do not know what the legal consequence is. Both opposition parties have proposed the introduction of this draft for a limited period of time, so that we really show a desire to protect people's fundamental rights and, on the other hand, the expectation that the government will have to come up with a new and clear draft before the end of this year, and we can adopt it. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, the Reform Party Group proposes to suspend the reading of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U219	Thank you. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 3 December last year, a bill such as the National Defence Act arrived at the Riigikogu from the government coalition. After all, the main purpose of this law is how to deal with various crises in our country's territory. This line has given rise to a number of disputes among the members of the National Defence Commission. We have listened to various executive officials who have tried to prove to us that such a management arrangement is possible. It starts with an emergency and ends with martial law. We have an emergency today. One of our arguments was that the current Emergency Act does not work as it was adopted in 2015. Its main point was, as the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee mentioned here, that the emergency situation will be solved by the authorities in the area of crisis, which is, in view of today's situation, the Health Board. We all agree, in fact, that an agency that does not deal with crises on a day-to-day basis and does not arrange for them to be resolved will be extremely difficult to begin an ex-prompt to resolve a crisis in which it has suddenly come into. Crisis resolution can be carried out by authorities with the necessary expertise, experience and resources. That means we need to review the emergency law. We need to start with the Emergency Act and put an end to the National Defence Act, which refers to martial law, and see how these situations are actually resolved. That is why I am also taking my own questions, and here we are thinking that we should not cut the cat-tailed piece today, but that we in the Riigikogu should have a comprehensive picture of how to make Estonia safer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U221	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U222	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm against this bill too, but not because there are bad people at the Health Board. I imagine that if the work of the Health Board was completely impeccable, not '5', but '5++', it might be worse. My objection is fundamental: we cannot delegate public administration to any kind of subsidiary in any situation. And what's particularly bad is that we give the medical department, the Health Department, the police functions, to replace the Home Office in a crisis situation. Even if we had a war situation, we wouldn't hand over government control to any Department of Defense. The country is still run by an elected and empowered person, that is the Prime Minister. Of course, all specialists and their opinions are important. The Agency has a very important role to play, but the final decision will be taken and the final responsibility will be borne by the Prime Minister or the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U223	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiations, so the negotiations are closed. There are 19 amendments to the draft and we will examine these amendments together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U224	Thank you, good manager. The Reform Party Group is asking for this proposal to be voted and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U225	Yes, we will vote on this amendment. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the first amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 38 against. The proposal was supported. Another amendment has also been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the position of the lead committee is to disregard it. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U226	Thank you. As the first amendment went through, we will also put the following amendment to the vote, because it is inevitably linked to the first one.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U227	We are now on the second amendment, not on the next one. The second amendment. Dear Riigikogu, can it be put to the vote without a sound sound? Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 45 against. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to take this into account in substance. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the lead committee is to take this into account in substance. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The ninth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eleventh amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U228	Thank you. I would like to vote on Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U229	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 11th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 13th amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 14th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. The 15th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The 16th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U230	Thank you. I'd like to vote on that proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U231	Do you want or propose? You're proposing. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 17 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 50 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The 18th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U232	Thank you. I would like to vote on Amendment 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U233	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 18th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 50 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. And the last amendment, Amendment 19, has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U234	On behalf of the middle fraction, I'm gonna take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U235	Are we going to vote on this point? Ten minutes may be taken before the vote. Would you like to vote? Would you like to vote on this point? Without a vote...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U236	No, we want to discuss it before the break. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U237	Since you do not want to vote, you cannot take a break. However, it is possible to take a break before the suspension proposal is voted on and I will soon put it to the vote. [[Question about the floor.]] No, not yet. So no one wants to vote on Amendment 19? Got it! So, we have examined the amendments. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading, but since the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act 165 amending the Medical Device Act, the Emergency Act and other laws, we will proceed to the vote on this proposal. Before that, however, there will be a ten-minute break at the request of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U238	Attention! Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to interrupt the second reading of Bill 165 of the Medical Device Act, the Emergency Act and other Acts Amendment Act. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The second reading has therefore been completed and today's second item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U239	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and the Ordering of Arts Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I request Jaak Aabi, Minister of State Administration, as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U240	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The main objective of this draft amendment to the Public Procurement Act is to amend the regulation on electronic exchange of information. As a result of the amendment, the contracting authority will be relieved of the obligation to exchange electronic information in the case of public contracts with a low value, i.e. less than EUR 30000 for supplies and services and less than EUR 60000 for works. This change was driven by the appeal of the Council of Rectors. Universities, which organise very large-scale framework procurement involving small-scale procurement and small-scale procurement, wished that low-value procurement should not be carried out in full in the public procurement register, but could also be organised in framework procurement by e-mail. The reason for this amendment is the fact that the current law obliges electronic exchange of information with a high level of security to be used for each procurement regardless of the value of the procurement. For example, when buying a computer mouse or a flight ticket, this should be done in the procurement register. A high level of security means, in particular, that the contracting authority can only examine the content of tenders after the closing date for their submission. This, however, requires the use of a compliant electronic environment and takes unreasonable time and increases the burden. The aim of the amendment is to allow easier electronic exchange of information in low-value public procurement, such as the use of an e-mail which is actually used in practice by both contracting authorities and economic operators. Under a framework contract, a contract could be awarded in a simpler way if its value is below the threshold for simple procurement, i.e. below EUR 30000 for supplies and services. In the case of public contracts where the law does not provide for a threshold for simple procurement, the obligation to exchange electronic information would apply from the threshold for public procurement. Such procurements include, for example, a special procedure for social and special services and a competition for ideas. The conduct of low-value mini-competitions, for example by e-mail, will make the award of contracts under the framework agreement considerably more flexible, less bureaucratic and probably faster. In a situation where the award of a contract is time-critical, the contracting authority could begin to examine the tenders submitted immediately. Nor should it wait for the receipt of all tenders and the expiry of the time limit for their submission. This saves time for the contracting authority and accelerates the work. In addition, in order to correctly transpose the public procurement directives of the European Union, the draft corrects the reference error in Article 5 (2) (5) of the Public Procurement Act, which results in contracting authorities being all those private legal entities, including companies, foundations, non-profit organisations, which must be contracting authorities within the meaning of the Directives. For the same purpose, the provision relating to the presentation of a procurement passport shall be supplemented if the tenderer wishes to rely on another economic operator to meet the qualification requirements. As a result of the amendment, contracting authorities need not require the presentation of a procurement passport separately, but the obligation arises directly from the law. In addition, the draft extends the possibility of using energy and environmental conditions not only for road vehicles but also for furniture, cleaning products and services, office IT equipment and copying and graphic paper. The use of environmental criteria in public procurement is one way of promoting green thinking and ensuring the use of environmentally sound resources in the public sector. In this way, the state and public authorities would serve as an example and a guide for environmental protection. These criteria shall be established by the Minister for the Environment. Amendments to the Public Procurement Act are also accompanied by an amendment to the Ordering of Arts Act. We present amendments together because the Ordering of Arts Act refers to the Public Procurement Act and the obligation to order a work of art depends on the cost of the works ordered by public procurement. The current threshold is EUR 450000, which has proven to be unreasonably low, since the cost of the work on-demand is at least EUR 4500. In this case, however, the cost of organising a competition for a work of art is often at least as high as the cost of the work to be purchased. The new threshold for works requiring a work of art is EUR 750000. This is, in fact, the same threshold as the one that was in force until the new law on public procurement reduced the threshold for works. After the change, the cost of the work would be at least EUR 7500. With this change, we also support the development of Estonian art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U241	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U242	Thank you. One of the objectives of the Public Procurement Act has also been to ensure that tenderers have a level playing field in the procurement process. How does this draft comply with it or improve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U243	Thank you for your question. There is still a level playing field here. After all, we are talking about simplification only within framework procurement. After all, all economic operators participate in framework procurement on a regular basis and must participate in the register. But within this framework procurement, those companies that have won within the framework procurement will be able to make a variety of smaller tenders in a simpler way. This is possible up to certain limits. These are cheap tenders, indeed even a few hundred euros, where the whole process does not need to be carried out in the public procurement register, but can be done by e-mail, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U244	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U245	Good manager! Good minister! I looked at the feedback on this bill. For example, the Chamber of Commerce had coordinated this draft on behalf of businesses without any comments, but it was perhaps the IT &amp; Telecommunication alliance just remarked that they still felt that this "simplified correspondence" was not quite correct and rather should strive for a more user-friendly public procurement portal. I also heard the same question from my colleagues in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We in the Committee on Economic Affairs did not raise this issue when you submitted this draft, but the very same question arose in the Committee on Monetary Affairs: it is not going to get any darker. Would you mind commenting on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U246	Thank you for your question. No, nothing gets darker. As I said, we actually have in mind the procurements that are carried out within the framework agreement, and, in fact, the procedure for informing all participants is still in place. It's just that this process is easier. This is what economic operators and contracting authorities are accustomed to and actually used in the past. In the meantime, the new law put in place a more stringent procedure which required only the use of a public procurement register. In itself, we very much support that even small-scale procurements, even those below the threshold, are carried out in a public procurement register. Over a thousand of them were made last year, as far as I know. Let's just say that a little time is needed to learn how to use this register better. Of course, the position of ITL is understandable; they are well able, as far as IT solutions and registers are concerned, they may be able to use them better than any small enterprise. But we are developing, and certainly there are plans to make further changes in the public procurement register, to make it better and more user-friendly. Let's just say that Estonia with its public procurement register is actually one of the world's leading countries. There is no such environment in most other countries at all, and everyone is going to learn from us, even the Finns, so we can stand up here a little bit again. But, of course, we should not stay put, we certainly need to simplify the procurement register and make it better and more user-friendly. And people will get used to doing more small-scale procurements or small-scale procurements that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U247	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U248	Good manager! Good minister! Maybe you'll be a little more specific and helpful. If a framework agreement or tender is concluded today, the maximum amount of this contract will be determined by what the tender is supposed to be. Now we will lighten up to what amount it is possible to do so that there will actually not be any procurement within framework procurement. Doesn't it occur that there's some kind of undersupply and through this undersupply, the builder or someone else, if possible, is going to do additional things and, as a result, can ask for any kind of money? I have my own experience where I come from. A cheap offer was made, but after that, 600000 euros were taken away like this. I myself have given the public procurement law the possibility that the volume may increase by up to 15% without having to be competitive or tendered. Perhaps you will explain a little to all members of the Riigikogu what will change and how much can be done without a procurement from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U249	In fact, no minimum rates will be changed; all these rates will remain exactly the same. Where this rate is fixed at EUR 30000 for supplies and services, EUR 60000 for works, the procurement must be carried out. This is a simplification of procedure. There will be no other simplifications in this law. Everything else stays the way it should be. In the case of this simple or simplified procurement, too, all procurement procedures must be followed. The contracting authority shall be responsible for ensuring that all information is available to all tenderers, including within framework procurement. So there's nothing you can say about yourself to make it darker. As far as the problem you have posed is concerned, I should look at this particular case separately. Within framework procurement, there is a certain percentage of the possibility of distinguishing between procurement and that submitted by an economic operator or tenderer which has proved to be the winner of the framework procurement. And I'd say if that's a problem, let's consider it. In the second half of the year, we would like to come up with such a more comprehensive overview of the bottlenecks and problems raised in the Public Procurement Act. This new version has now been in place for three years by autumn and still needs to be reviewed. But we are seriously involving other parties, we are currently negotiating with business organisations, beneficiaries, public authorities and local authorities. We are in the process of collecting what changes or improvements are needed in this law. I think we'll get to the drafts in the second half of the year, and then we'll come to you with them. If you can pose this problem and suggest what could be done differently, we'll consider it and bring it here to discuss it for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U250	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U251	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I am still asking about the division of different procurements, which has been referred to earlier. Apparently, one major procurement is divided into lots. Does nothing change now within this framework procurement, or does simplification in fact not affect this side or encourage the contracting authority to deal with this appearance in certain cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U252	Thank you for your question. Once again, all the conditions for public procurement in the framework agreement or within framework procurement are exactly the same. It is only a question of simplifying the procedure for such smaller purchases. In itself, no limits or other processes are affected by the changes that are here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U253	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U254	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Could you explain the percentage change in the law? If I understand correctly, the threshold of EUR 450000 will rise to EUR 750000, and one of the reasons for this is that ordering works of art for EUR 4500 is more bureaucratic than it may be worth. Although, if I remember correctly, the aim was to revive the exhibition of certain art and thus support artists. Can't it now be that a certain group of artists miss this opportunity, because the cost of a work is certainly also dependent on the value of certain art, elitism and other indicators of the value of art?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U255	Thank you for your question. We are essentially restoring this situation, which was before the new Public Procurement Act was in force. In other words, the new Public Procurement Act reduced the threshold for the cost of the building, in which case the procurement must be carried out, and the ordering of works of art is set out there, several times this threshold, the minimum threshold, must be. It was previously tripled in the case of works of art, with a threshold of EUR 250000 itself and resulting in EUR 750000. The new public procurement law reduced the threshold to EUR 150000 and brought it to EUR 450000. Now we would raise this amount back to EUR 750000 for works of art, and that is why it says a five-fold minimum rate, i.e. 5 x 150000 is EUR 750000, as it was before.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U256	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U257	Good manager! Good minister! On this last answer, I simply ask why the official wishes to improve the current public procurement law, which once received the title of the year's best law. Very clearly below the cargo limits. I remember that, for example, in healthcare, the procurement limit had been raised so high that in the end only three devices were bought in public procurement each year, by auction, the rest were made in so-called three offers. After all, the idea is that more entrepreneurs can participate in the offer rather than that we are creating a situation where entrepreneurs cannot offer. There was also a condition that, for example, in the case of an appliance, maintenance for five years is included in the price. It's also a trick that, at the cost of maintenance, we'll take a profit after that money. Why do we want to go so high with this art now? Where do such expensive works of art come to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U258	I may not be the best specialist, this change has been presented by the Ministry of Culture. They explain that this threshold, which was previously EUR 750000 and 1% of which is 7500, is the minimum. In the meantime, it was reduced by law to EUR 450000, of which 1% is 4500. It is claimed that if a tender is made on this basis, the procedure itself is relatively expensive and, in fact, for the same limit as the minimum, it is not possible to buy a particularly valuable art. It was a proposal from the Ministry of Culture. It must have been negotiated with artists, I hope, or with those who create works of art. That's where the proposal came from.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U259	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U260	Good manager! Dear Minister, From that last answer to Aivar Koka's question, I have a question that I think you probably don't know how to answer right away, because I don't think you have that list with you. But do we have an overview of how these artistic orders have gone so far and what has been ordered for this 1%? Maybe you can look at that list somewhere or you can send it to us later.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U261	Thank you! Yeah, I don't have such a list with me, but I'll write it down and send it to you when you've had that review. I believe that there is certainly some kind of data on which art has been acquired in the framework of these public procurements.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U262	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U263	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I'm sorry, but I listened to the meeting here in the office, and at the same time I attended the meeting of the Economic Commission for Rae Municipality, so maybe I missed something here. But when I read the draft, there was one thing that I did not understand and the question arose: will this procedure outside the "procurement register" only concern those "sub-contracts" awarded under the framework agreement and all that relates to simple procurement will still remain in the "procurement register"? Is it that framework procurement is in the register and sub-contracting is outside, and that is all that matters? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U264	That's right, there's just no more requirement. In the future, framework procurement can continue to be carried out in a register, as it is today. This change has primarily been the wish of universities, as they have very large framework contracts and very small outsourcing. If all this is to be done in the register, the workload is insane. However, a large number of bidders, or those who sell the goods or services they procure, are also used to e-mail offers. There is no change in any of the conditions in itself; simply this procedure has been made easier for small procurement within framework procurement. Yeah, that's right!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U265	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. No further questions for you. I would now like to ask Kalev Kallo, member of the Economic Commission, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U266	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 4 May. The draft was presented by Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, and explained by Gerttu Blank, Adviser to the Minister of Public Administration, and Evelin Karindi-Kask and Triin Paljak, advisers to the Public Procurement and State Aid Department of the Ministry of Finance. The Minister already introduced the contents of the draft. I will briefly mention what raised the questions raised by the Members of the Commission. One topic was the same as the one mentioned here was ordering art. For example, the question was how expensive this art must be. The answer was that 1% of the value of the procurement, as the Minister has just explained. The question then was whether the cost of a work of art had to be included in the value of the public procurement or whether the work of art had to be obtained for extra money. Evelin Karindi-Kask from the Ministry of Finance replied that art should be purchased at 1% of the cost of construction works and this would be added to the amount of public procurement. So this is an extra cost for the customer, I understand. Of course, questions were also raised by the requirement introduced by the Ministry of the Environment that the Minister of the Environment be empowered to establish mandatory environmental criteria for purchasing furniture, cleaning products and services, office IT equipment, copying and graphic paper. The members of the Commission were primarily interested in whether this applies only to the Ministry of the Environment. The answer was no, it concerns all procurements. And, of course, the members of the Commission raised questions about how to distinguish which copy paper is acceptable and which copy paper is not environmentally friendly. No very precise answers were received in this respect. However, Evelin Karindi-Kask said that this list of criteria was final, as it had to be defined in terms of law. The list of things for which these requirements could be imposed comes from the study "Analysis of Green Public Procurement' of OÜ Alkranel, commissioned by the Ministry of the Environment in 2015. This analysis has taken out the list of items for which environmental requirements are set by the Ministry of the Environment. It was also decided in the Commission that before the second reading, it would certainly also be discussed with the Ministry of the Environment what these criteria could be. I have heard of my colleague Aadu Black's concern that, as far as archivals are concerned, there may be requirements as to which paper is environmentally friendly, but it may happen that if it is archived and visited in a few years' time, it may only be a piece of paper left. So on the one hand, paper may be very good from an environmental point of view, but on the other hand, maybe not so good. The Commission proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 May; the proposal was adopted by consensus within the Commission. Secondly, it was decided to propose the completion of the first reading, which was also proposed by the members of the Commission by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U267	Thank you very much. And now the questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U268	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You have given an example of the concerns of the Chairman of the Committee on Culture that not all papers will last for a long time. So how is this thing settled? Is there a way to consider, or what will be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U269	Firstly, this concern did not arise in the Commission, but was later mentioned in the conversation. But you can't say that right now. It was decided in the Commission that representatives of the Ministry of the Environment would be invited before the second reading, and these questions would be submitted to the representatives of the Ministry, so that the criteria could be decided on. We will certainly draw attention to such things. Today I don't quite know how to answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U270	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to give a speech? This does not seem to be the wish, so the round of negotiations has been exhausted. We have on the table a commission proposal to finish the first reading of draft 177. The first reading is finished. The deadline for tabling amendments is 5.15 p.m. on 25 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U271	We will proceed with the agenda and discuss the questions on the availability of family doctor services submitted on 22 January by Riigikogu members Hele Everaus, Urmas Kruuse, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomasti, Ants Laaneots, Maris Lauri, Hanno Pevkuri, Kaja Kallas, Erkki Keldo, Toomas Kivimägi, Jüri Jaanson, Signe Riisalo and Andrus Seed (No 20). I would like to ask Mr Everausi, the representative of the heirs, to act as Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U272	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! January has become May, the time has gone quickly and very difficult. I recall why we did this together, because time has made it even more important. Perhaps its history goes not only to last year, but certainly to a long time. The fact is that by the end of August last year, it was evident that family doctor services are no longer available in many regions of Estonia, as older people stop their professional activities, while competitions announced in three quarters of cases do not bring new family doctors to work. The health department was not very concerned about this, but the association of family doctors was very concerned and brought these problems to light, as in reality the situation is still extremely difficult. Where a person gets his first help if not from a family doctor. That's the first plane that's going to determine a lot. We know what the current situation in Estonia is in terms of preventable and treatment-free deaths are among the OECD countries in the European Union, while in terms of coverage of medical needs, we are among the latter. If we start with very weak steps in the family medical system, the rest of the system will lose out, and we will be in a bad state in terms of quantity of medical preparation. I believe and hope that the Minister will answer our questions, of which the main question was: does our Ministry of Social Affairs have a sustainable strategy so that, starting with primary care, our people's hearts will be satisfied and they will have the confidence that we can always go there and get help there, if not there, from the rest of the system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U273	Thank you. The request is answered by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U274	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Indeed, it has been some time since 22 January when an inquiry was made, to which response has been somewhat delayed due to the crisis in COVID-19. But I am happy to answer that today, because the issue of access to family doctors and medical care in general is topical and, let us be honest, also challenging all year round. The first question: 'What is the plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs for solving primary health care staff problems in the coming years, given the OECD's assessment that the number of doctors in Estonia has recently completed inadequately, and how many family doctors can retire in the coming years? " It is true that the number of doctors entering the family medical residency depends in many respects on the size of the medical faculty's training order. The number of study places ordered is usually agreed by a non-formal committee meeting at the Ministry of Social Affairs, including representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research, the University of Tartu, the University of Tallinn and Tartu, the Estonian Hospitals Association, the Estonian Association of Physicians, the Estonian Association of Nurses, the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, as well as junior doctors, pharmacists and other specialties, or a very broad committee. It is customary for the parties to make a numerical proposal based on analyses of their own needs. The number of places will ultimately be decided by the relevant educational institutions, based on their own training capacity. The admission of the medical faculty as a whole has increased from year to year, but as shown in the OECD report cited by the questioners as well as in previous analyses, such as estimates of the number of doctors working in Estonia by 2032, as well as the establishment of a model for assessing the need for geographical availability of primary health care services and the optimal organisation of primary health care services, the trend of staff emigration must be monitored when making the training order. Initially, it is planned to continue the admission of the medical faculty in the order of 185 medical students per year. In addition to the need for medical training, it is also necessary to mention the need for nurses and other primary health staff to allow for the mobility of tasks within the system. The number of places agreed for family medicine residency has increased over the years. There is also an unwritten agreement that if there are more strong candidates than the limit number, there will be a search for admissions. On average, however, there are somewhat fewer graduates per year than are accepted, i.e. mostly 18 to 19 residents. And since this academic year, the family medicine residency lasts four years instead of three years, which also slightly prolongs the training period. The wish of the Estonian Association of Family Doctors is that by 2025 the admission to the family medicine residency would amount to approximately 30% of the total admission to the residency, which would amount to 60 seats. At present, the reception of family doctors is 22%, or 40, of the total reception. But I agree that it is probably reasonable for us to gradually increase this proportion. The second question: 'Although the provision of family medical services is not the responsibility of the local government, the Health Board states that it is municipalities that should offer the so-called 'welcome' to find new family doctors. Does the Ministry of Social Affairs share the view of the Health Board? " Indeed, in law, it is not the responsibility of the local government to provide general medical care; the health sector as a whole is, in fact, a purely national task and responsibility. Paragraph 15 of the Health Services Management Act states that the local government may be a shareholder or shareholder of a company providing general medical care. Two local governments are currently using this option: the city of Tallinn and Väike-Maarja. Although the law does not require municipalities to think about the sustainability of the family medical system, it is of course in the interests of each municipality itself. Municipalities, who have taken into account the holistic development of their own region, have certainly also considered providing family medical care. We have actually seen that more flexible solutions have often been found in these regions and better results have been achieved in the area of family doctors and in finding new doctors. I must admit that, as a minister, I myself have had direct contact with a very large number of local government leaders on the subject of first-level medical care, whether it relates to setting up health centres, finding doctors, meeting any requirements or matters concerning funding, either for the next budget period of the European Union or also for this period. It may appear that the municipalities themselves are very interested in ensuring a service on site at the moment. They are looking for legal opportunities, ideas and best practices to support the arrival of new family doctors in their region, and they are making their proposals, and they are also making criticisms of the national system. The Ministry of Social Affairs has also provided input to the planned study of the Ministry of Finance and the State Chancellery, which aims to assess the potential role of local governments in two areas: the first is to assess the need for assistance for people with special needs and provide support services and the second is to improve access to general medical care. Perhaps because life shows that the interest of local governments, as well as the opportunities to support, is often high, the question is whether this role should also be somewhat enhanced legally. This certainly does not mean reducing the role of the state, but rather making cooperation even better, as I think it is an important issue for everyone. From the perspective of general medical care, two issues are addressed in this same study: firstly, the role of local authorities in ensuring infrastructure for family doctors, and secondly, the role of local authorities in setting up a legal person providing general medical care, where this is necessary to ensure access to assistance. Because of the limited budget, the study initially dropped out of other issues concerning the role of the municipality in organising the transport of the population, when, for example, the reception of family doctors in connection with the reorganisation of family medical care moves further, as well as the role of the municipality in motivating the finding of a new family doctor, although, as has been said, municipalities have often contributed voluntarily themselves here too, I think, very rightly, too. In January-February, at the beginning of the new year, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs will also submit their proposals to the Government of the Republic on the basis of this analysis. In principle, in any case, I share the view of the Health Board that cooperation with the municipality is extremely important, as the local government has the most accurate information about the needs and specificities of the region. The Ministry of Social Affairs has also started a dialogue with the Union of Estonian Cities and Municipalities on the possible extension of the role of local government and we will definitely continue these discussions. As has been said, I am certainly in direct contact with many of the local government leaders who have approached me on this subject and on other health issues. Question 3: "Has the Ministry of Social Affairs planned a strategic systematic action to ensure the sustainability of family doctor practices in all regions of Estonia? " Access to primary care is undoubtedly a national health management priority. The Ministry of Social Affairs, together with the Health Board, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, follows and continues to comply with the cooperation agreement signed on 19 March last year with the aim of agreeing the objectives and activities to be carried out in cooperation to ensure the availability and development of family medical care in the coming years. In view of the objective of this agreement, the parties shall be regularly met within the framework of separate working groups. I myself take part in a number of such meetings, namely with the Health Insurance Fund, the Health Board and the family doctors' association, to discuss possible needs in the service organisation model, the financing model, the establishment of health centres, the issue of working hours, the issue of the movement of doctors and, of course, the subject of secondary growth. One last significant change can be pointed out that, in order to ensure the sustainability of family medical care, the amendment entered into force on 1 April, which resulted in the multiplication of the additional costs of the current family doctor and the expansion of the range of beneficiaries outside Tallinn-Tartu and neighbouring municipalities. Perhaps the monthly premium of EUR 820 is now starting to start now, on 1 April, to receive 327 family doctors instead of 127. At the time, the amount was also lower. Similarly, an even higher 'distance charge' of EUR 1647 receives 73 lists, so far the number of recipients was 52 and the amount was significantly lower. Perhaps so far the premium was EUR 196,55, now it is EUR 823. Similarly, in the past, a premium of 563 was paid to doctors furthest away from the nearest hospital, which now reached EUR 1647. Financial motivation is, of course, only one part of the motivation package, but it is also important to have a modern working environment, a supportive team, a job offering flexible challenges and, as previously mentioned, good cooperation between local authorities and family doctors. Similarly, all activities aimed at accessing family medical care and improving the quality of family medical services, as previously agreed, will continue as a result of the same agreement or good practice agreement between family doctors' associations, the Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry and the Health Board. Several IT solutions are also underway and completed. A recent example is the clinical decision support system launched on 1 May 2020, which brings patient-specific recommendations to the work desk of family doctors and nurses and helps to make decisions faster and more quality. Similarly, during this crisis, family doctors have, of course, been very important supporters. Through these, most people have received a referral for testing and the necessary health advice. I think that family doctors have done a great deal of good work to prevent the spread of this disease. Therefore, according to the Health Insurance Fund's price list, it is estimated that the costs related to the exclusion of the corona virus are further compensated at the primary level on the basis of an additional budget approved by the Riigikogu for 7.8 million. It covers, inter alia, the work of the on-call medical centres, the service of non-listed patients, the provision of emergency care and assistance to uninsured people, the provision of personal protective equipment, as well as the additional costs of the 1220 family medical advisory line, which also increased sharply during the start of the crisis. I have also said in the past that the family medical advisory line had to provide advice at certain moments on transit issues between different countries, wider issues related to the COVID-19 crisis, as well as, of course, health issues. Fortunately, 1247 phones later launched, where the corresponding crisis issues could be diverted, and family doctors could remain in the process of doing their basic work. I'm done with that. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U275	Thank you. Questions. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U276	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for answering the questions. My question is based on an emergency situation. Has this situation led the Ministry of Social Affairs to reconsider the Estonian medical system? Are there any plans on how this could be reorganized if there were to be a new outbreak of the virus, we hope it doesn't come, but scientists say it will, so that we can act? The question is this: have you already considered the following steps, should this outbreak occur, so that daily medical services continue to function?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U277	Thank you for your question. A very well-founded raise. Of course we've been thinking. At the same time, we have to take into account that if the next outbreak of the corona virus occurs, it may be expected to be in the autumn, October-November. This means that it certainly does not make sense to undertake very large-scale reforms in the summer months, as this could lead in the autumn to a situation where major reforms are only halfway through, not to mention getting them up and running, and that is what the medical system is worse prepared than it is now. However, smaller reorganisations, such information exchange issues, as well as social and health cooperation issues, must certainly be stepped up, this is supervision in nursing homes, it is support for family doctors with personal protective equipment, or it is a test organisation. For example, we have now made such special points in cooperation with the private sector, and now the question is whether it will go through family doctors in the summer or through a sentinel study. It is to some extent to create a "continuous monitoring" to see if the corona virus is spreading again. In the same way that you referred, in general, to medical care in general, I certainly hope that it will be possible to continue the planned treatment in the autumn. Perhaps there should not be a situation where, due to lack of personal protective equipment, rapid spread of the disease, to a certain extent unknown or uncertain, very difficult choices must be made regarding planned treatment. I hope we'll be better prepared in the fall. I'm sure of it, actually. Information and communication solutions will also help here. If information moves more quickly between close contacts, diagnosis of patients, the whole medical field and the wider public sector, it will also actually help to identify and isolate patients as early as possible, as well as to protect family doctors, individual practitioners and hospitals working in health centres from infection and their environment. To this end, urgent hospital tests have also been introduced, for which there is a huge demand in the world, but also by decision of the government, we have promised to order 20000 + 50000 - a total of 70,000 both for hospitals on the hospital network and for the wider healthcare system. Perhaps quite a number of such rapid changes have been made, but no fundamental changes or reforms are, in my opinion, wise to do in the summer months. This would be rather confusing, all the more so as the health sector as a whole - I want to recognise them - has done very well with this crisis. And you could even say that a somewhat centralised system has worked surprisingly well. If, as usual, Estonian medicine is known to be highly decentralized, i.e. we have 786 autonomous family doctors, I think it was the last time that there were 20 hospitals on the hospital network, whose owners are different, i.e. once the state, once the city, once upon a time, foundations, public limited companies, different forms, plus smaller hospitals, private sector, we have now made an emergency under the leadership of medical staff, Professor Peep Talving and Professor Joel Starkopf. In addition, Dr Arkad's Popov, Head of Emergency Medicine, has been in office. In fact, cooperation between hospitals has worked very well, there has been a clear division of work and a clear division of patients between the family medical system. It has been possible to prevent wider intra-hospital infections while supporting local authorities. For example, the infection control that we initiated precisely in order to prevent the emergence of infections on site, and where there has been, better advise how to get rid of them and get rid of COVID again. These are quite great achievements compared to several countries where, as we know, the nearest half or even more than half of the deaths have just come from nursing homes. Here I think that good cooperation between the health and social sectors has ensured that, fortunately, we have an exception to nursing homes. 10% of nursing homes in the size range have had problems with this, so far from everyone and not the majority. Let's hope it's the same way in the fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U278	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U279	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, In the long term, it is, of course, that the growth in well-being is the result of increasing demand for health services. On the other hand, the problem is that we may not have enough of these providers, or doctors, including family doctors. Current doctors are ageing and this is also a major problem. Of course, in a crisis situation, many pains also come out. I am simply asking now whether, at this time of emergency, all the regions of Estonia have been covered evenly by the family doctor service or have still been lacking in some places. How have these problems been solved in areas where there is no family doctor? And as an additional question, perhaps you will also say a few words about how Viljandis...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U280	Ladies and gentlemen, There's one minute to question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U281	...it's progressing. Maybe a few words about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U282	Thank you for the many-faced question. I'll start with the family doctors. After all, it is true that there has never been a single availability of family medical services. These problems are inevitably more common in sparsely populated areas. There are either temporary replacements found, family doctors reorganized, if necessary, or patients distributed. And this is also one of the reasons that I listed earlier that we have directed so much distance charge just outside Tallinn and Tartu. The management of the family doctors' association admitted honestly that working as a family doctor in Tallinn and Tartu is a luxury. They said that when there was a debate on money. It is very important to acknowledge the management of the family doctors' association that they did not ask for funds for Tallinn and Tartu, or for themselves, they are predominantly active in large cities, but really stood up for rural areas. That is what we agreed, and that was my vision too, and the Health Insurance Council supported this direction, as well as the government, to really multiply money precisely in smaller places. At the moment, it is true that those who are located 20 to 40 kilometres from the nearest hospital will receive an extra fee. In fact, everyone outside Tallinn-Tartu and adjacent municipalities will receive an additional charge of EUR 823 and anyone who is more than 40 kilometres from the hospital and, in addition, all islands will receive EUR 1647. This is quite a considerable premium to encourage precisely working in rural areas, where there is often a smaller list and other opportunities for income, and probably also family members may have slightly different incomes and opportunities for earning than in large cities. That is why, for example, we have changed the coefficient since January. So far it was that the list of less than 1,200 patients had a coefficient of 0,8, which is reduced to 1, 0 now. Maybe we're based on the fact that even if you have 1,000 patients or 900 patients, we actually know that there may not be any more in a distributed area, you'll still get a full coefficient, or you'll be charged a 1.0-price "basic base fee." It also increases the motivation of family doctors to work in the county. As has been said, it is certainly not the only point in this money, but health centres have been set up in the past, this has been the right direction, with these European Union instruments. We now have health centres that meet all the requirements in terms of funding, 31. The goal, of course, is for this number to be bigger, the original target was at 60. I don't know if we're gonna get this far, but in any case, they're working right now. There are also many new projects or you renovated and established centres as well as several dozen. It also provides a more modern environment where family doctors can work together with other professionals and experts. These family health centres and health centres have been made very scattered across Estonia to small places, as well as to larger areas, and this provides an opportunity for people to receive near-home medical care. If necessary, a person can quickly be referred to another expert, it is a logo beet, it is a nurse, it is a dentist or it is also a pharmacist. A number of different points have been brought together, such as the physical therapy service, in order precisely to improve access to aid in rural areas. During this particular crisis, family doctors themselves, as has been said, have actually done a very good job. Plus there are also county surveillance centres that ensure that people also receive health care or at least counselling during the weekend, if necessary. If a family doctor really falls ill with, for example, the Corona virus or COVID-19 disease, then someone will replace and cover him. This is also what we compensated for with the extra money from the Health Insurance Fund. So there's still a lot of work here. I think there is enough for me and for the next ministers, but at this time of crisis, the system at first level has worked very well. At times, family doctors have mentioned that the number of visits could be even higher. In some areas, patients have been so frightened of this disease that they have not dared to see a doctor with acute concerns. Perhaps they have read in the paper or heard elsewhere that now is not the time to move very much. But I always suggest: if there are any questions and there are health concerns, you should at least call or send an e-mail to a family doctor or family doctor's counselling line. In this case, you can decide whether it is time-critical, whether it is worth going to the reception, whether you should ask for specialization or whether you can wait for it. You don't have to be alone with your problem. They also asked about the PAIK project. Yes, this cooperation at Viljandi Hospital and this approach is very sympathetic. This also coincides with the principle of integration when we are talking about social and health integration. I regret that this year, due to the emergency situation, we did not have more time to deal with this issue in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy, because it would also have been on the table as a clear project, how much more money we actually need in the form of investments to stay on schedule. The Viljandi Hospital has put a great deal of its resources in it, the state has supported it, and here, in fact, the issue of the use of European Union funds was also here. I very much hope that we will be able to move on with this. At the moment, it is in some ways in anticipation of government decisions, and what happens next. After all, we had planned to agree on a country's budgetary strategy, as usual in April, but this time it has not been reached because of the emergency situation. At the latest in the autumn, the country's role and support will be discussed again. I think that the introduction of such a new and thought-out integrated approach as a 'pilot' in Viljandi makes sense in any case so that it can be followed in every county in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U283	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U284	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I have a question and a half. The first question is this: I saw that Abil had a mask, and I have seen the bike in the mask, but Helme goes without. Which school do you represent today? And the real question concerns the emergency centres of the family doctor centers. I have been saying this in Tallinn for about two and a half years, that general medical care or family doctors could have a security service, which you mentioned, so that people could also get help after working hours and during the weekend. If this crisis now comes to an end, do you see developments in this, for example, in Tallinn and somewhere else? Has this debate been held?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U285	Yeah, thanks! As far as the mask is concerned, I really relied on the fact that I was already watching in Parliament how masking has been significantly reduced. I will follow what the majority of Parliament decides, and I will look at the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu with that look. I was based on this and also on the fact that less than ten new infected people have been identified in Estonia for the last 11 days in a row, which may show that the epidemic is over by this time. Now the question is, will he come back and when will he come back? Since no one's playing on the remote after me, I'm not really afraid that anyone else will get some kind of infection after me. That was now the first answer, although I do not know whether it was a full question or a half question. The other half is about the surveillance centers. At the moment, they were indeed made as a 'temporary solution', especially in times of crisis and in order to cover family doctors if necessary. We know that the working time in health centres is somewhat longer than in the individual practice of a family doctor, i.e. from 8 to 6 it is really available, so the establishment of health centres has already already increased the availability of both morning and evening medical care, and if you are thinking, first and foremost, of later hours, as well as weekends, how to avoid recourse to the emergency department and how to organise resources better, a debate has been held. We will certainly continue these discussions. This topic has been on the table at the same meetings as the Health Insurance Fund, the Health Board, the Family Doctors' Association, etc. However, we must be guided by the fact that, in a situation where, as has been said, the resources of family doctors as such are unfortunately limited in Estonia, as well as the resources of doctors as a whole, it is necessary to think about which working time it is best to ask for it to be implemented. Because, on the one hand, we also want to keep our doctors, to keep their families, on the other hand, to preserve the health of Estonian people, so that family doctors do their work as long as possible and help as many people as possible. There is no black and white answer here, because in some areas this evening time per week may be necessary, but in some areas it would be an abuse of family doctors' time and, in fact, of health resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U286	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U287	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This inquiry is dated 22 January 2020, i.e. before the Coronal Crisis explodes. The problems are much deeper than those of the corona crisis that you mostly pointed out in your answer, from masks. So I ask you, don't you see the need to make fundamental changes in order for our family doctors to have a follow-up? If you say that a family doctor over 40 kilometres away is paid, I didn't hear exactly how much it was EUR 195 or EUR 159 in support, then this is quite ridiculous. Because all of this takes time, for example, to replace it, so it takes an hour to drive, it's no money to talk about. Perhaps, however, the Estonian family medical system needs fundamental changes and basically more funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U288	I'm going to go over these finances just in case. Until then, if you were located 20 to 40 kilometres from the nearest hospital, EUR 196 was paid, and if you were located more than 40 kilometres from the nearest hospital, EUR 563. Now, since April, these amounts have been significantly increased, i.e. in all family doctor centers outside Tallinn and Tartu, family doctors receive a minimum monthly premium of EUR 823 and all those that are really further away, i.e. 40 kilometres and more, plus islands, receive a premium of EUR 1647. This is still a significant bonus, given the real work carried out in the region, and precisely the travel costs, which, although separately, are actually compensated within the base fee, are undoubtedly higher in the smaller regions. Perhaps I think that in the financial key, we have already set the focus very clearly and repeated the increase, tripled this distance fee in magnitude, as well as broadening the circle of recipients to everyone but Tallinn and Tartu and their neighbouring municipalities. Maybe this is the first half. As far as ensuring sustainability is concerned, indeed, as I have pointed out, on the one hand, it is a question of 'family medicine training', of residency places that have been increased, also of reception. Not everyone ends up, as we know, often there are different reasons. We have actually gone this way so that, in certain cases, it is possible to go through the residency part-time if it is necessary for reasons of family life and other circumstances, so that the person is not left with a black and white choice to either interrupt or continue, and, if necessary, a four-year extension of the period, depending on the length of the professional residency of a particular doctor. Also, when we are talking about succeeding, we have also agreed on the principle of "incubation" or the payment of a premium to a health service provider who, in order to ensure continuity of family medical care, employs a resident of the relevant family medicine for a period of up to 12 months, or a family doctor without a list. Logically speaking, the so-called mentoring programme is, for example, an experienced doctor who knows that he wants to retire in six months or a year's time, and he has the opportunity to share his list with another doctor within 12 months and actually receive a premium for it. Perhaps he does not have to pay his own money, but he receives additional funding from the health insurance fund to train this particular doctor. And it will also be considerably easier for a young person to take over this list if he has been able to do so gradually, so that he too does not have the kind of 'flat water' movement that tells a person that you have 1,200 to 1,600 or so many patients, roads and roads, but that he can learn from a doctor with experience, gradually take over the job and see if it suits him or her. I think that patients, too, will undoubtedly be more comfortable, easier and smoother in this process. This is, in fact, a measure launched in the same way since January of this year, in addition to those I mentioned earlier. But, of course, I think that, just as health is never finished, there is also a constant debate on ICT solutions, financing issues and perhaps the competences of different roles, which must be discussed with the local government, health centres, the Health Board, the Health Insurance Fund, the family doctors' association. To this end, working groups have been set up. And now, in times of crisis, I really am in contact with members of the management board of the family doctors' association using different digital channels, but if it gets a little calmer, as has been said, the epidemic has clearly ended in Estonia for this time, then we will definitely meet again and discuss the lessons of the crisis as well as the longer term view. Because it is necessary to ensure "sustainable availability" beyond Tallinn-Tartu, we are very much on the same page with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U289	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U290	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You supported and commendably said good words about family doctors, even though your coalition partners have been very critical of some health policy decisions, even today there has been criticism in this Chamber. In the light of today's knowledge you have, would you do something different? When we talk about family doctors, a certain physical reception was literally restricted. Some of us have the impression that this was done because there were no protective devices. That's the first part of my question. And the second: Was it reasonable to switch off private health care from certain treatments? Although, for example, cancer treatment and treatment of certain diseases continued. But is such a pause next time there's a crisis of the same kind very sensible? Would it not be reasonable to continue and include private health care in order to carry out certain scheduled treatments that could not be provided at the moment in times of crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U291	Thank you for your question. I'll answer in a row. When it comes to restricting admissions, not only did it look like it was, but I have to admit it was. The lack of personal protective equipment was undoubtedly one of the reasons why both hospitals and private health care providers, as well as family doctors, were restricted and planned to reduce the number of receptions and became more involved in remote consultations where possible, i.e. on-line communication or telephone counselling. I think that this was a sensible choice in this crisis, because we have had a relatively indeterminate spread of the disease. We know what has happened in several countries in Europe, where there are more than ten times as many of us, including deaths per capita. We certainly would not have wanted to see such numbers in Estonia, and this has all been avoided. Each of these measures alone made a small contribution to the reduction of R0 or the coefficient of infection and reached very clearly below one. Today, he's at 0.4, or still below, if you look at the latest trends. Perhaps, in fact, we have, precisely in cooperation and alone, undoubtedly achieved, with uncomfortable and difficult decisions, that, at present, the spread of the virus is under control and the epidemic is either coming to an end or ending as someone deals with it. However, as far as autumn is concerned, I very much hope that we will have more personal protective equipment to deliver, as well as the whole issue of supplies, such as personal protective equipment, medicines, generators, and other possible lessons in preparing for the crisis. Similarly, all possible testing systems, capabilities, i.e. ICT solutions to monitor contacts, i.e. to quickly identify and guide individuals in close contact with them, to isolate them, as well as voluntary mobile phone applications that are in operation. Perhaps in the autumn we will be better prepared with various measures. I would have the courage to say that if this spread were to be similar to today, or similar trend, it was introduced in about 120 cases, and then it started to spread from there, then we have the ability to limit the planned treatment at least not in this volume, but hopefully less and ideally perhaps not at all. It is possible that there could then be such a 'hospital' approach that if there really is a hospital where there is a greater risk of infection or infection in it, it needs to be limited, but not all hospitals in the hospital network. If this infection should come from a larger version of this tsunami, then undoubtedly very difficult choices will still have to be made. We hope, of course, that this autumn spread will not be so much more extensive, and we will be able to introduce these experiences and the applications that we will now have by autumn, so we do not have to go ahead and limit the planned treatment. This is certainly my first preference and I believe that it is also in the interests of the health of the Estonian population.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U292	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U293	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have one interesting statistical fact that, in the first quarter of this year, 623425 people used family medical services. Of course we understand that these are not half the people of Estonia, because some used less, some used more, but this is a considerable number. When the family doctor system was established, there was a strong desire that the family doctor knew all generations, as practiced elsewhere in the world, to benefit from it in terms of professional competence and professionalism. That is why I am asking whether there is a plan to promote more distance work for family doctors and how you will create competition in the field of family doctors at university, because I understand that it is not very presently.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U294	Yes, the family doctor's residency has often had to be followed up to get a full number of seats. This profession is undoubtedly of great value both from the point of view of society and from the point of view of the individual young person who chooses it. Because the need for a family doctor in the visible future will certainly not be reduced, but rather, on the contrary, will increase. Perhaps the role of family doctors in maintaining health care systems and helping people is enormous. In this view, these same financial changes and the setting up of health centres really help to increase the prestige of this profession, as well as to create positive motivation in a good way. Very many young people, namely the graduates of the family medicine residency or the graduates of the final course, have also admitted to me themselves: the knowledge that there is a new renovated health centre with a collective of five or six doctors and other health professionals somewhere, undoubtedly motivates considerably more than the possibility of taking over the list somewhere alone in an apartment. Perhaps such steps have certainly contributed to the growth of the offspring. I think that this work needs to be carried on all the time, rather than hoping that sufficient preparations have been made now. In this view, I am sure that both the Ministry and the other parties have a lot of good ideas here, in addition to these funding decisions and setting up health centres, as well as a good overall image design that has accompanied family doctors, i.e. most people in Estonia today, I believe that they appreciate their family doctor's services quite highly and in the same way, both its availability and its importance. [[They say there's one question they didn't answer.]] Remote work, yeah. I'm sorry! I think we're gonna have to start writing down the keywords. It's the way anybody wants to work at a distance. Perhaps, once again, for some, it is a very frightening and startling thought when it is said that teleworking will begin to be done, whether there will be a loss of physical contact and real information. At the moment, we have gone very far in the way of distance consultation in view of the fact that the family doctor directs the professional to assess whether a referral is necessary or not, and also offers online services in other ways. We have, unfortunately, allocated money once again, but this is one of the ways in which the Ministry can direct the work to 435000 family doctors to analyse the software needs of family medicine so that such a more modern information technology solution can be made. In times of crisis, we used such remote solutions quite a lot. If we want to introduce them more widely and more widely, then we must all negotiate calmly with the association of doctors, family doctors, nurses, as well as with the representatives of patients, in order to find out which direction we want to move in. Perhaps there is a very high demand, but perhaps vice versa, i.e. it is feared that there will be an excessive shift to internet and phone-based channelling, which in turn may raise issues of accessibility for the population who do not use electronic channels.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U295	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U296	Good President! Good minister! At the beginning of the emergency, representatives of the family doctors' association visited and met family doctors from Ida-Virumaa. At the meetings, it turned out that Ida-Viru family doctors in major cities may not have the best relations with local authorities, it revealed a number of problems. Have you also seen in your work that the family doctors of Ida-Virumaa, I mean the doctors in Russian and perhaps in some other cultural space, are distinguished from the rest of the family doctors' community? Do they need any special approach, and if so, what special approach do you see? Why am I asking that? That's one reason why people don't think life in Narva is good. I mean, the first reason is that there are not enough jobs, the second is poor medical care, and the third is that the city is not a good living environment for young families. But if medical care is not sufficient, it is a very serious signal that Estonia will not live in the third largest city.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U297	Thank you for your question. I've met and talked to family doctors in Narva City several times myself. In particular, when there was a project to establish a Narva health centre that the Narva hospital had to carry. Unfortunately, it is very unfortunate that the third largest municipality of Estonia did not set up a new health centre because the necessary family doctors were not found. I'm saying it by heart right now, so I might be wrong, but in the order of 40 family doctors working in Narva, it took six according to the terms of this regulation. The signatures were received at the beginning of the month, but some retired, some gave up, and eventually two or three doctors agreed to come to the health centre. The health centre didn't come. That is very unfortunate, because, as I said at the meetings, not to upset someone, but rather to motivate them, there are several smaller municipalities, even the example of Rakvere, where I think there was once again, I might be mistaken for nine family doctors on the health centre list and there were more wanters. Perhaps, in fact, there were a number of smaller municipalities in which a significantly higher number of family doctors were required than in total. Then I had a question for the Narva authorities, as well as for the family doctors, how is it possible that no six doctors will be found in a city the size of Narva. There was also a question of which side of the railway the health centre should be on. Knowing that there are relatively flexible conditions imposed on health centres, I explained on the spot that, if you consider that there are'main reception' and additional reception places, you can also maintain the current reception place, work between 'two regions', sharing patients and receiving more financial support. However, unfortunately, this project did not succeed there. When you asked if special treatment was needed on the ground, the family doctors in Narva asked. For example, they asked if they could be granted an exception in Narva because they were a little different or something. My signal was that the people of Narva shouldn't think they're worse than the others. I think that there are just as many hardworking and caring people living there as there are in other parts of Estonia, just as in the sense of doctors. This particular family doctor was a representative of a younger generation who could undoubtedly have taken such a leading role. He must have tried to do so, so in that sense, I congratulate him on carrying out this particular project and involving other doctors, because, in the case of health centres, it was obvious immediately how important it is to have good cooperation between the family doctors themselves, the local authorities and the state, and how important it may be to find a positive captain in a good way who is going to carry this project. In a number of smaller regions, such as Paide or elsewhere, it was really obvious that there was a particular person who considered the project to be his own and really wants to do so, calling and writing to the minister himself every other day if necessary and asking if it would come to the opening and other questions. I think it's very positive. Estonia is a small country. It was perhaps missing in Narva at the time that there was no one to take this project to their heart and to do it. There was a bit of a ball bouncing, so it's a hospital now, it's a town, and there's family doctors here. Eventually, this health center did not come, and that is a pity. When we talk about the availability of Narva and Ida-Virumaa health services, the situation at Ida-Viru Central Hospital is definitely somewhat better than that at Narva Hospital, there is nothing to deny. Having been to both hospitals myself, I know that the number of doctors in Narva Hospital is unfortunately in decline. Often, when a doctor retires, there is no replacement. I may have used this example once, but the claim of Narva Hospital's own chief physician was that the last Tartu University graduate came there in the 1990s, so some time ago. Perhaps a great many family doctors and doctors have, unfortunately or fortunately, come from other countries, third countries, also from outside the European Union. Knowing that these possibilities and channels are also somewhat limited, plus it is not always possible to guarantee access to medical care in both languages that are needed on the ground, this view certainly requires special attention and support in a good sense from both the city and the state in order to put itself on the ground more strongly and to provide medical care to people on the ground. You referred to other results before the survey, and there are many places where all ministries have to work, as the Ida-Viru programme envisages. But, of course, in the health care perspective, I feel primarily responsible for ensuring that the people of Narva also receive good medical care in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U298	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U299	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'm bringing maybe a bit of a second race to our discussion right now. Family doctors are certainly good and, in the course of this crisis, they have also signalled that quite a lot of good things have actually been done quickly, which has been stopped earlier, including in the IT area. However, one of the concerns of the IT sector or, in fact, of this crisis is the handling of corona-positive data. Elik, can you tell us who the corona positive data is being transmitted to now and what happens to this data? Family doctors, of course, put them in digital lockdown and I'm not worried about them, but how do they control the transmission of corona-positive data to others, I assume there's a police there, I assume there's local authorities there, that these data will be deleted or not abused? Maybe you can give us a little overview of who gets the corona positive lists and what happens to those lists.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U300	Thank you for your question. I will say right away that if you want a full answer, it is more reasonable for me to send it to you in writing. But starting in a row, you will indeed, the family doctors will find out about this patient after viewing the data, plus they have also mostly issued the consignment note themselves. There are other situations where frontier workers are tested, for example, in a particular hospital or under other arrangements. Of course, the data is operated to a certain extent by scientists, not in a personalized form, but in anonymised form, i.e. by getting a general picture of how many infected people we have in one region or another, at what age they are, whether they are hospitalized, whether they need hospital care and how many tests have been carried out, because there have also been several tests per person. The PBGB also receives data for quarantine, if necessary, based on the same principle as in the health field, that as much as is necessary and as little as possible, i.e. in particular those who are infectious and who require the attention of the PBGB during a given period. Perhaps the quarantine of the patient and his close contacts will be monitored. With regard to the deletion of data, it is undoubtedly important that the possibilities of leakage or other risk options are minimised. As far as I am aware, there have been no situations where COVID-19 patient data moved outside the sectors where the agreement has been or otherwise leaked. I can certainly send you an accurate overview of this in cooperation with the Health Board, the Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre and all hospitals, how is it ensured in one information system or another that there is no risk of security arising from temporary emergency solutions, where some information moves to someone where it should not move. But, generally speaking, I dare to assume that this threat is rather small, because we have really been based on this, too, on sharing these data, that human health data cannot be provided lightly. As you have observed, it is often criticised in the media that data is given too little and too late. But that's what it's all about, not putting human health data in Excel and sending out, and then anyone who wants to analyze them. That is why it is more of a double caution that we have been here. And the information systems have been developed, if necessary. The Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre has also received additional support from the state, precisely in order to keep IT solutions running and developing, so that everything is stored as safely as possible and moves through secure channels between different institutions. But I think it really makes more sense if I ask you for a written summary, because the question seemed rather thorough.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U301	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U302	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Half of my life I've been to a health clinic and half to a family doctor. Wasn't that a good time at the clinic? And I think that making family medicine centers is actually a reasonable thing. Tell me what the difference is between a health centre and a family doctor's centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U303	Thank you for your question. There are similarities and differences. The resemblance is undoubtedly that more family doctors work together, with one such center where they receive their treatment and help. The difference is undoubtedly a legal form. However, family doctors at the health centre are generally all entrepreneurs themselves. They have decided whether each one is working with his own list or whether good cooperation is being done to replace each other. There is also good cooperation with other health professionals, such as physiotherapists, logopedias and also psychiatrists, to provide people with a better service, faster advice and a wider range of services on the ground. But in general, everyone has a separate legal body, a specific family doctor in a health centre. So you can't put these two in the real one. But in my opinion, this approach is more appropriate in order to reduce somewhat the proportion of individual practice and increase cooperation. First of all, it is right from the patient's point of view, from the point of view of ensuring health care, from the point of view of sustainability, and certainly it is also right from the point of view of workers themselves, or family doctors. This kind of working together, consulting, replacing each other, giving holiday if necessary, all of this is very reasonable. I myself have been more busy driving around Estonia before the corona crisis, and family doctors have very often admitted, especially in rural areas, that one of the biggest concerns is the issue of holiday. Where are you going when you're the only family doctor in the parish? No one can replace you, and basically, you have to be in the field all the time. It burns out, it burns out, it burns out, it burns out, it burns out, it burns out, it burns So this good collective feeling and elbow feeling is also important. I think that the direction of health centres is undoubtedly the right one, and that is what we are going to go on with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U304	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U305	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I'm going to have to adjust a little bit of your one answer to wearing a mask and your position on the remote. Certainly no minister will be there after you, but there will be several members of the Riigikogu, both those who ask questions and perhaps in a free microphone. So it's not like you're the last person to speak on the remote. I am very sympathetic that you spoke about the issue of Viljandi Hospital and also talked about the fact that this topic will be discussed again in the autumn. I very much hope that it will find funding, because this good practice of piloting a well-functioning project is, of course, sensible and necessary. However, it is a question of compensating for protective measures. In the media, it could be read that in the case of dentists, the amount must have been EUR 40, for those who have signed a contract with the health insurance fund. But in the case of family doctors, how does the compensation for these remedies work? Is it in the bounty or can it be further compensated?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U306	Thank you for your question. First of all, I'm really sorry about my mistake, but I assure you, I'm known to be negative for the corona virus. I have also taken a test once, I have not done that, and I very much hope that this will continue to be the case, in the same way among Members. And while it was going to be apologized and corrected, I also said that I looked up quickly, that the Rakvere Health Centre did not start working at 9 but even 10 family doctors. Let it be said for the sake of the verbatim. As far as compensation for personal protective equipment is concerned, there is a separate long list of what the Health Insurance Fund has designated, there is a cooperation agreement with the Ministry of Social Affairs, where all these lines of service are described. In the case of family doctors, too, this is not a bounty, but a separate cost of personal protective equipment, and then all these specific cost lines are put in and compensated. It's a very long list of Excel's tables, I don't remember exactly, but there were still a hundred different costs for one or another health care provider, starting with hospitals and ending with family doctors. All of this is allocated from the same supplement to the sickness fund, a total of EUR 13 million. There's a certain part of it, isn't there, the reimbursement of sick leave and so on, but the size of 170 million was meant to cover the extra costs of doctors, hospitals, and nurses.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U307	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U308	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! In terms of optimising the health system as a whole, it is important that as few patients as possible reach the highest stage, the specialist. They'll get help sooner. And the less we direct people to that specialist, the greater the burden on family doctors. Then the question arises as to whether, apart from family nurses, the burden on family doctors could be alleviated. There is one form that does not exist in Estonia, namely a community nurse, who would then be a patient counsellor, would deal with prevention issues, monitor a person's health status and perhaps also the course or condition of chronic diseases. Have you had a discussion on the role that community nurses could play in Estonia in order to alleviate the burden on family doctors and family nurses? Do you see an opportunity in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U309	Yeah, that's a very good question, thank you! First, really, the beginning is absolutely right. Gradually we have tried to direct the topics of professional doctors to a family doctor, as well as to expand the role of family nurses and the role of nurses in the health care system at all. This is a very sensible approach. The service as a community nurse has not yet been under discussion. Speaking about the same role and decision-making powers of local government, this is certainly one point of view that can be developed in this particular view. If we are talking at all about putting together social and health services, just as we are currently financing nursing services in a nursing home, for example, by providing a nurse on the ground or by "buying in" the service, this could indeed be one of the ways to create more. But right now, I'll take that as an interesting proposal. If we are going to do an analysis on this, we could negotiate with the municipalities whether and to what extent they themselves feel the need for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U310	Thank you very much. Minister, there are no further questions for you. It is possible to give speeches. On behalf of the heirs, Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U311	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, I don't take long, because I thought the question was answered very well and it was obvious that the action had received a very good impulse. I am really happy about that. But I'm just gonna say a few more things. I think it's a process that goes on all the time. And sometimes the process goes past the spiral in different situations, i.e. we come back to the forgotten old on a qualitatively different level. Perhaps we can think about what all our family doctors must do from birth to death with one person, all they need to know about him. A small child is not a small person, but in a completely different way, in the sense that at all ages a person has different diseases and needs to be treated differently. All of this has to be done by a family doctor. It's a little easier in big cities with super-hospitals and super-specialists. But a family doctor often has to make very important decisions on his own, except now that health centres are in place or with his sister or another doctor. Family doctors say that especially when specialized departments are disappearing in counties, where it was possible to turn to for advice at the beginning and there were permanent contacts in medicine, they will no longer be able to contact a specialist because it is impossible to call a PERH in Tallinn. Even patients may not be able to reach their doctors. It's a place to think. Mr. Minister, listen to this one more sentence. The difference between a health centre and a health centre is that the health centre is a superminivariant from the health centre. At the health centre, all specialists, specialists of more frequent specialties, were available at the time. The sick person didn't have to run and wait months until his family doctor got him to a specialist. That's how it was done. I think it will be possible again in the future with certain variations. I think it's a thinking place. And another point of thinking: right now we want to have access to the service, but now it's time for us to think about how we know what it is, how it is done, and what it is that this person feels when he gets this service. Maybe that means you're asking. In fact, there is a need for substantive research, and it is not difficult in a country the size of Estonia. First of all, we need to look at what the problems of family doctors are, but second, how does this person get help? Does his or her quality of life change better or worse than this assistance or doesn't change at all? In fact, in medicine, answers to this question are only expected on a daily basis. But still, thank you very much, Minister. So, and this isn't gonna end. I promise that in a year's time, when I am alive, we will come back to this question and see how your measures, which you have now implemented, have worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U312	Thank you. Anyone else want to take part in the negotiations, give a speech? I don't see any requests. Does the addressee of the inquiry want to say anything? Addressee's gone, so I don't want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U313	We're going to the next item. This is an inquiry into the place fee for nursing homes submitted on 2 April 2020 by members of the Riigikogu, Helmen Küti, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Katri Raigi, Heljo Pikhof, Indrek Saare, Ivari Padari, Jaak Juske and Riina Sikkut. I would like to ask Helmen Küti, the representative of the heirs, to serve as a rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U314	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Good fellows! On 2 April, the Group of the Social Democratic Party submitted an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige concerning the place fees for nursing homes and, in particular, the annual increase in the tax liability of loved ones. People's and their loved ones' own share in paying for their nursing home has increased from 60% to 80% in the last ten years. As the scissors increase between the pension and the pay of the place, the missing part is paid by the elderly, who are often overwhelmed by it. The current price increase makes the situation of those close to them even more difficult, especially in the current difficult economic situation, where many people have lost their jobs and have lost their income. The high price increase in the care home place puts people in a forced situation where they have to take their elderly loved ones away from the nursing home and stay home as a carer. The Ministry of Social Affairs has advised people to turn to local authorities to receive support from them, but local authorities are also in a difficult situation due to the current state of emergency and the subsequent social crisis, because they have reduced receipts, but at the same time there have been additional costs in organising a crisis situation, so that people may not get help from it. This means, however, that the state should intervene in the rise in the place payment of the nursing home and develop the necessary measures to ensure that the place of nursing home is available for pensions to those who are in a difficult situation. The Social Democrats initiated a draft of the Riigikogu, in which one of the proposals was to create a financing model that would ensure a nursing home for the pension if necessary, but unfortunately this decision of the Riigikogu in the large hall of the Riigikogu did not find sufficient support and the problem of long-term care was not seen or desired. Since our inquiry had been made earlier when the government came to the Riigikogu with an additional budget, we really hoped that the minister and the entire government had also found relief in the social field, especially in the care of their own and long-term care. However, it has become apparent today that this is unfortunately not the case. The press release of the Ministry of Social Affairs, issued on 7 May, reads (quoting): 'A total of EUR 130 million has been allocated to local authorities from the Fund, of which EUR 30 million is intended to stabilise the negative effects of the crisis. The crisis relief package will allow spending on extraordinary social protection expenditure. For example, money is intended to compensate for additional costs due to emergency situations, including deso tools, masks or food packages for the elderly, and self-revenues, as well as the reduction in place fees and local taxes in kindergarten. " This also means that the 30 million that have been allocated to all municipalities will certainly not be enough to compensate for the cost of a nursing home, the pension and the loss of family income. We have asked the Minister four questions and we hope to get answers to them. We will certainly also ask further questions, because when you think about what the Minister has spoken about on several occasions, both in the media and in round tables, which I have been able to listen to myself while participating, it seems that he understands and senses this problem. Yet, all of this has remained mere words, too little has been done in action. And looking at what will now follow in the autumn, when the number of unemployed is likely to increase, a situation may arise where the social crisis also deprives those who would otherwise be able to go there if people were unable to pay for their loved ones' nursing homes, which were partly paid from 1 January and 1 April this year, they too will be excluded from the labour market. Thank you. We hope to hear very good answers from the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U315	Please, Minister, the chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U316	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Indeed, at the beginning of April, eight members of the Social Democratic Party Group submitted an inquiry into the place fee for nursing homes. On the same subject, there was, in fact, an opportunity to answer the first questions on 22 April when the Member, Mr Pikhof, raised this issue. Long-term care is, just as the previous speaker said, a very important subject, to say the least. And I think that is what needs to be kept in the picture, both at government level, at parliamentary level and at local government level. I'll answer the questions in a row. The first question: "How do you think loved ones who have been left without income due to the crisis should behave, but who are not helped by the local government to pay for the place of the nursing home? " As the first suggestion, I would, of course, ask the municipality to comply with the law. The current Social Welfare Act states: "The general care service provided outside the person's home is a social service organised by the local government unit, aimed at ensuring a safe environment and livelihood for an adult who, for reasons of health, operational capacity or living environment, is unable to cope temporarily or permanently on their own in home conditions. ' If we go further, § 16 of the Social Welfare Act clearly regulates the person's payment for social services, saying that the local government must also take into account the financial situation of the person receiving the service and his family when charging for social services. And: 'The amount of the social service charge must not be an obstacle to obtaining the service. " This is actually a very important starting point and principle in the law. Thus, when a person does not have sufficient financial resources, it is usually necessary, in the first instance, to assist his or her dependent family members, but if the family members are unable to assist a close person in paying for the social service, the local government must in any case provide the service to the person and assume the payment for the service, in part or at least temporarily. In fact, the majority of municipalities do so on the basis of the principle: the existence of family members does not mean that the municipality itself is no longer obliged to assist, if necessary, if the financial situation of the members of the family does not allow the payment of the amount of the person's own pension. When we are talking about an additional budget for 2020, the state really allocated EUR 130 million from the support fund under the support package to local authorities. Some of it was intended to be used for the purpose of targeted use, new investments, 30 million for roads, and 30 million were actually designed to stabilise the negative effects of the crisis, i.e. it provides an opportunity to choose where to target these expenditures. This, of course, can also be done for private care and social protection expenditure. I have also stressed this in my meetings with the Minister for Public Administration that this should certainly be one of the places where this money is being channelled. At the moment, it is left up to the municipalities to decide exactly where, but also in the explanatory memorandum, this area is mentioned. For example, it can finance the transfer of food packages to the elderly due to special circumstances, social costs, social services, as well as self-reimbursement and, of course, also alleviate the issue of the reduction of local taxes. The important principle here is, in my opinion, that no person should be left without help. The second question: "Aside from the principle of human dignity, would it be a situation when family members start moving their loved ones from their home to their homes against their will just because there is no financial means to pay for a nursing home? ' I come back to the first answer here and say once again that if the family does not have the financial means to pay for the place of nursing home, it is the responsibility of the local government to provide this service. Perhaps, according to the law, this money must not be left behind, according to the law, as this paragraph says, the amount of the service fee must not be an obstacle to obtaining the service. The economic livelihood of the family must be taken into account when calculating own shares and also when asking for money from family members. I certainly do not consider it human or acceptable to have a situation in which persons who have been in general care or in in inpatient nursing services who actually need a caring service, such as people's side assistance in their daily livelihoods, or who are unable to cope independently under home conditions due to their medical condition, their operational capacity and their living environment, are deprived of the essential service due to a lack of financial opportunities. This is not in line with the principle of law and, more importantly, it is not in line with the principle of humanity or social justice. I certainly believe that the primary responsibility for helping people living in the administrative territory lies with the local authorities. As has been said, the vast majority actually do so. In the current legal area, this obligation is imposed that the municipality must come to the aid of the person in need and find a temporary solution that will, for example, work until the solvency of the family members of the person recovers. When we are talking about the health sector, the COVID-19 crisis has actually created an opportunity for people to stay longer in the service even in the case of inpatient nursing care. To this end, an additional EUR 7.5 million was allocated to the sickness fund, including during the additional budget procedure, in order to cover the additional costs of providing the service, so that people can receive services until the emergency situation has ended or the situation has returned to normal. And when it comes to long-term care as a whole, we have been planning a long-term reform of this system. Several aid measures have actually been negotiated with the parties. In Parliament, too, they have been discussed in a debate and they have already gone into more detail in the government, but they have not yet entered into force. Perhaps as one of the problems of long-term care, we have highlighted the very starting point for family members to have a huge burden on paying care. Very many people, as we know, have also not received the necessary service, be it a home service or a general care service. Often, the need for home services is even greater, i.e. the scissors are tripled, i.e. the share of those in need compared to the number of people actually on the service. It is undoubtedly important that we, when establishing a long-term care system, start to focus this self-participation somewhat more precisely and more on the need-based. Perhaps it is necessary to calculate a specific amount that a person himself pays for a service and this should depend on his or her income and the size of his or her assets, so that there is a clear limit to where the role of the municipality is from, from which the role of the person is from, from which the role of the state is to support the municipalities in providing long-term care services. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, will already develop a replacement filling system this year, which can be implemented if the local government unit or state does not provide the necessary service or support to the person. This solution, however, is primarily aimed at the future. As you will remember, we have actually held this debate before. There has been talk about the introduction of a 'tax' on long-term care, the creation of care insurance. I consider this to be the right direction, but, as I said, there is no consensus support from the government coalition at the moment, so inevitably this proposal must remain somewhat awaited. This does not mean, however, that the rest of the reform proposals will not be able to move forward. The third question: 'Is the supplementary budget submitted to the Riigikogu, with a financial amount of 2.5 billion euros, taken into account the additional support given to local governments so that they can make the place of nursing home available for a pension even during a crisis? Please note that the Minister of Finance estimates that the cost of this essential measure is only EUR 40 million per year. ' As I referred to earlier, in the 2020 budget, a total of 130 million have been allocated to municipalities in connection with the COVID-19 crisis. They will also be able to use 30 million to cover the additional costs of providing general care, as appropriate. When we talk about the Government's Cabinet Decision of 30 January 2020, the basic principles of the long-term care system were accepted. By the end of this year, the Ministry of Social Affairs will develop concrete solutions for the establishment of a long-term care system in Estonia. This system supports, in particular, a good partnership model between municipalities and the state in organising long-term care services. We have already calculated, according to the end of 2018, that if we want a reasonable own contribution that will ensure that people have access to the services they need, the cost will be estimated at EUR 150 million in 2021. Of course, in today's difficult economic situation, finding the necessary amount is such a greater challenge. But I'm not tired of repeating that this is actually an area that doesn't solve itself. Here, these financial allocations must be found in cooperation between the state and the municipality; people cannot remain in the necessary support. I have also said earlier in the Riigikogu that the need for flanking assistance and the increase in the number of people with special needs associated with the ageing of the population means, unfortunately, that we need to think more about the opportunities for services and quality care in this area. This is one of the greatest social challenges. When we are talking about the reform of long-term care, we cannot think about one particular type of service, but we must look at the person as a whole, from birth to old age, and think about precisely the services that are transitional services between home and nursing home, so that it can as much as possible support people's self-sufficiency in their living environment. The aim of the reform is, as we know, to increase the volume of services and the number of recipients, and also to provide services to those who need it but have remained in the care of their loved ones. This is undoubtedly a serious problem that these services are not sufficiently developed and do not always meet the needs of the target group. We need to reduce the own contribution of people with care needs and their families to paying for care services, as you have rightly pointed out. Question four. If this has not been done, why do I not consider the problems of people in long-term care to be important? The assessment in your question is certainly not correct. I repeat, the government coalition in power certainly considers the issue of long-term care to be important, and I do so both as a person and as a minister. The Ministry of Social Affairs will bring together concrete solution proposals, which have been developed or partly developed, in the second part, by the end of this year, when this debate comes in the study. My view is that the state must create such a functioning structure and capacity to provide long-term care services in cooperation with local authorities. As additional measures, it is also under consideration, as I referred to earlier, to establish a minimum standard of living for people receiving services, which must remain in the hands of the person even after the same own contribution, or service, has been paid. A methodology should be developed and an exemption from the employer's special preferential tax should also be considered for compensation for the care home service of a former or current employee. Perhaps if the employer wanted to support his former employee or his current employee with the necessary service, he would be able to receive a tax refund here and the additional income tax exemption would also be granted by the maintainer. We will certainly continue to monitor the situation in the context of the COVID-19 crisis, to deal with it, and, if necessary, we will come up with faster support measures. One example of how we have supported the care home system is the organisation of rapid inspections at all 200 major service places. So, in cooperation with the major hospitals, the University of Tartu Hospital and the North Estonian Regional Hospital, dozens of inspection commissioners have already been trained under the direction of the Social Insurance Board, offering additional support in order to protect people's health and well-being and reduce the cost of the nursing home itself. When we talk about supporting nursing homes, we have also come to help and we will continue to come through local governments and other service providers, including the private sector. When we look at the survey conducted by the Social Insurance Board on 22 April, where 186 separate structural units were interviewed, we saw that the number of service places according to the licenses was 9558, while 8840 people attended the service. The total number of institutions was 718 free seats, or 7.5% of the total number of seats, which is rather a good figure. This means that the general status of the human service has not stopped, or this massive movement to homes has not taken place. While there are nursing homes that have really expressed concern that when people leave, they in turn still have a need to cover fixed expenses and keep people at work. The question then arises as to whether they will have to start increasing the price of the service or where they will find additional resources. But, fortunately, these have been individual cases and, hopefully, after the crisis, the former situation will recover quickly. The amount of the place fee per institution varies greatly, ranging from EUR 550 to EUR 1400. The average estimated place fee was 814 euros per month at the time. These data come from 179 institutions. Less of them, 49 institutions have not increased the place fee this year, but 130 have indeed increased the price. In general, price increases, as you know, tend to accompany either the beginning of the year or the rise in pensions, as well as this year. Of course, it is very important in this view to move forward with the increase in pensions in the coming years so that this part, the difference that a person's own income is lacking in paying for the service, and thus the burden on his or her loved ones to pay that price, is reduced. If we are talking about institutions providing general care outside the home of the person, then indeed, their cost and the own contribution of people, as you rightly pointed out, have grown to an 80% if there was ever a person's own contribution to 60%, then it is now 80%. We shouldn't be moving any further from here. The rise has already been very rapid, and this proportion is already clearly shifting towards people and their loved ones. We hope, at the very least, to stabilise it by reforming long-term care and, ideally, to make it somewhat smaller, i.e. to get its weight a little more equal and balanced. In any case, thank you for raising the important issue and I am happy to respond to the additional questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U317	Thank you. Questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U318	Thank you. Good minister! With regard to long-term care, the state has been analysing all kinds of things for almost five years. There was a maintenance load task force, an international survey, the Ministry has launched all kinds of development projects, etc. These policy options are clear on how to solve this problem. We need some money and some decision-making. I'm sure you can't stay behind that important thing. So the question is: at the latest, what date does a person receive a nursing home for a pension? After all, it would only cost the state 40 to 50 million a year, not a lot of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U319	Thank you for your question. As you well know, no minister knows the date. As far as the other side of the question is concerned, I will, of course, remain sceptical about this statement in that sense, that if we calculate current prices and the people on the service, we can get one number, but if we look at all the needs for services and the issues of long-term care in general, from young people and children, from support to home services, general care, nursing services and special care, then the real need for money is EUR 150 million per year. And I'm afraid in time it would rather grow. Perhaps EUR 40 million will certainly not solve all the concerns in this area, although this would undoubtedly help. As I said before, this is the role and responsibility of the municipality now. This is the question of whether to go and change this system. Just as special care is known to be a national role, there is also the question of the extent to which the state itself should come to offer social assistance. At the moment, we have agreed that we will go in a direction where the share of the state will increase somewhat, but the local government will remain mainly responsible for this service. So in this view, it is the question of what is this possible price model, especially for municipalities with about half of the places in the general care home, the other half in the private sector's hands. But, as I have said, the price as such cannot go down indefinitely and cannot increase pensions at this rate. When we talk about the average cost of a nursing home of EUR 800, we do not want people who work there to receive less pay than they do now, because they are already receiving a small salary. We also do not want the quality of the service to fall. At the same time, we know that it is not possible for the country to increase its pension at a rapid pace by hundreds of euros. We have already done the fastest pension increase of 12 years, but this is much less than the real need. Here, rather, such cooperation mechanisms must be found that the individual, his/her loved ones, the local government and, perhaps, the state, must continue to pay for their participation in the future. However, the date on which the pension covers the place payment for the nursing home cannot be said. I'm afraid I'll never think of a day like this. And as has been said, the positive side may be that we do not want the place fee to be so low that people's wages and the quality of service, which is already unfairly low in terms of income, would fall even further in order to get the price of the place fee down.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U320	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U321	Thank you, good manager. Minister! The payment of the place fee for the care home is also linked to the maintenance obligation. Individuals who have a maintenance obligation will be in need if they do not have the resources themselves. Last week, through Estonian Television, we saw a story that, unfortunately, is not quite exceptional. It is very humanly understandable that there is a great injustice when a person has experienced neglect as a child, has not been involved in raising, has not been paid for a living or has even experienced violence at the time, or has witnessed domestic violence; he has in no way been able to influence the processes himself or create any kind of legal status that he or she would not later have obligations as a guardian, but then discovers himself at some point in the situation where he or she has to support a parent who was violent towards him or another parent. The municipality has discretion and can take decisions, as well as apply the principle of investigation in the context of the administrative procedure, which is known to it. What is your message to those who perceive this humanly understandable injustice?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U322	Thank you very much for raising a very sensitive issue. It comes from, yes, the principle that sometimes you have to be more generous and more human than life or your loved ones have been with you. On the one hand, it is humanly well understood. I also think that the approach you referred to would be the right practice. If the municipality is aware of the facts or has been clearly demonstrated, it can make an exception for this person because we cannot leave an elderly person without help, it does not come together with the law either. But, indeed, the demand for payment for this particular service goes clearly against the universal sense of justice and the human principle. No doubt we always hope that these situations will not happen in life, but unfortunately we know that they will come, both in wealthier and less wealthy families. In the individual's view, it is understandable that, to put it mildly, there will be a conflicting feeling of paying for these services, without knowing whether it has to be done for years or tens of years. Without knowing all the circumstances, it's very difficult to give any good advice from the side. But I think that, with the emphasis on the responsibility or empathy of the local governments themselves, say, maybe that's even the right word, you could really apply such exceptions across the country. It could be such a good practice that a person whose life has been unservingly difficult will not be required to support those who have been responsible for this difficult life.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U323	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U324	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Autumn can be quite difficult in our economy, with up to 100,000 unemployed people speaking. It is clear that the issue of the cost of a nursing home is becoming increasingly acute and important. I have realized that there may not be a new supplementary budget, but still: if the government is discussing it now and the additional budget comes, what order would you put in to compensate for the cost of this nursing home, whether or not through local authorities, including this 30 million scheme? What kind of priority would you put it in to get extra money there in the fall? Because I think it's gonna be a huge need.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U325	Yes, unfortunately, the number of unemployed has been on the rise for several months. The situation this morning was nearly 50,000. Maybe we're a long way from the 100,000 now, but we also know that when we talk about pay compensation, more than 100,000 people have benefited from it. If we consider that even in the case of pay benefits, there are certainly people whose jobs are in danger, then these worst-case scenarios may prove to be true at worst. Of course, we all hope that this will not happen, that the state has put in place a lot of measures, that these are KredEx grants, that these are EAS support measures or that the same unemployment fund itself will provide additional support, as well as wider provision of labour market services in the form of training. But in some sectors it will certainly take more time to recover, there is no question. It is clear that at the end of the emergency situation, life across Estonia will not fully return to normal; it will take months and maybe years in some sectors. With regard to the issue of place-pays in this view, this issue of long-term care really needs to be looked at in its entirety and more broadly. This is an area that has been underfunded for years. On the one hand, I think that the reason may have been that this is the area of responsibility of the local government, which in turn creates a situation in which it is very easy to say that let the local authorities look at themselves. Clearly, in some respects, municipalities do this work better themselves because they know the circumstances on the ground, people's lives and needs, but on the other hand, we also know very well that the ability of local authorities to influence their tax revenues is as good as non-existent. It was calculated here once that about 1% of the tax revenue, i.e. the municipality's income, depends on its own decisions on what local taxes it imposes, because there are few and a small part of the law that they affect; the rest are all really national decisions, as well as a wider economic cycle. Perhaps there is no justification for this view if the municipalities were to be blamed for it, because they are acting within their financial means. If we are talking about additional funding allocation, perhaps the principle of a support fund, then, as Minister of Social Affairs, it would undoubtedly be a sympathetic approach to me that if we were to allocate money to the field of education and, in other areas, actually follow this principle, there would at least be some kind of "special money" or extraordinary allocations based on the principle that they are aimed at a particular sphere. Since the problems of local governments are very different during the current crisis, some have more to do with covering the place fee for kindergarten, others with logistics, transport, acquisition of personal protective equipment and other things, such a direct restriction was really not imposed, i.e. the municipality can decide for itself where it will direct the money. But if you ask which area would be most in need of support from local authorities, I am sure that this is precisely covering social services. So in my 'hierarchy', it is clearly high, basically first, since health expenditure is still covered by the state and the social sector is the second or my ministry's wider sector, which has been, just like the health sector, underfunded for decades.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U326	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U327	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Do you think that it is fair to treat older people with children and without children whose health needs, if necessary, general care because of their health status? Worse still, it is known that on average 300 cases a year are against children or grandchildren. And as you could read, there are more and more grandparents who are being asked for a living. Wouldn't it be fair, and perhaps it's high time, for a nursing home to review a person's own property, his income in the form of a pension, as well as state support for the local government? This issue of grandchildren seems particularly unfair, simply because they are often at the beginning of life and need support. How do you feel about this, and are you planning to do something before 2022? Because I realize there's not much going on until then.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U328	Thank you for your question. Certain topics are already in work, for example, a pilot project on maintenance coordination. With this earlier proposal, we will come to the government at the end of the year. There are, however, those that can enter into force from the new year, and those that take time. As far as the issue of pensioners with children and without children is concerned, it is such an eternal debate. Perhaps you never know why a person is without children or for what reason a person is being charged for a place and whether he has a financial chance to pay them or not. I agree well with this principle that we need to look at people's incomes, look at family incomes, look at costs, look at the number of children in the family. No one should be required to do more than his or her economic situation allows, as does the law. As far as grandchildren are concerned, one of the proposals, in the context of the same reform, is actually to take away the maintenance obligation concerning the payment of the place payment of the nursing home from the grandchildren. So that's the subject we've started. Of course, here, there is also the reverse question of whether this means that grandparents, too, are being taken away from their child maintenance obligations. I don't really want to do that. Because when we think for a moment about small children who may be left alive without parental support, I think grandparents are one of the greatest helpers and helpers of such moments. However, it is a good thing to have it so-called "guarantee" in law. Maybe the other way around, I'd rather support it. When we talk about a nursing home and a place fee for a nursing home, the release of grandchildren in general means that the cost is borne by the local government, not by the elderly being left without the necessary help. So a fundamental change could be made. And, as has been said, the broader principles that were in your question, I agree that this calculation of the place fee must be more individual and, in my opinion, the methodology must also be very clearly in place, not just asking for the amount that is missing from the pension, but really looking at the person's income, other costs, financial opportunities and also at the possibility of supporting the municipality itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U329	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U330	Thank you, Mr. President. Good Tanel! My question is as follows. In the current and previous EU funding periods, the focus has been on kindergartens and the construction of kindergartens in places where there were few kindergarten places. Supporting the construction of nursing homes for LAs has not really been for a very long time, I think about eight years ago there was something. Has there been a discussion about the next financial period of the European Union, or will you also stand for local governments to also build nursing homes for a European grant? It is, after all, the investment that will affect this price in the future. If it were to help build or modernise these nursing homes, the price would be lower in the future. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U331	Thank you for your question. The short answer is yes, I am. In fact, as always in the European Union negotiations, the different countries are in different positions and are debating, but the ministries are arguing, too, who would like to see this distribution of the European Social Fund in a slightly different way. Of course, in our view, it is important to get as much support as possible from both the Social Fund and other European Union funds, particularly in the social and health fields. There are different projects, the example of Tallinn Hospital in the case of health, making the necessary change for the reform of long-term care in the social field in particular, not only the construction and renovation of nursing homes, but also the creation and adaptation of service places in general. I'm sure we're applying for that extra money. We had not yet reached final agreements at government level; this is once again one of the places where the crisis in COVID-19 has so-called crashed. Just as it was not possible to put together a country's budget strategy, the planned agreement on the positions of the European Union's funds in Estonia was not possible. Similarly, at the European Union's own level, this debate is currently somewhat frozen, particularly with regard to urgent costs and the steps needed to resolve the crisis, but at some point it will also be returned to the long-term MFF. Certainly, the problem in this area is that, now that we know that the European Union economy as a whole is clearly falling, it also means that the European Union's own resources for the next budgetary period as a whole will decrease. This means that we will have to renegotiate our own national advance agreements, in turn, on how much precisely to channel money into one sector or another. But just as I said in reply to earlier questions, I am sure that in my view, the subject of long-term care and the application of nursing homes, as well as increasing energy efficiency, etc., these are very important areas of principle. And we have also stood in the negotiations for not only directing money for the so-called social sector but also looking at various infrastructure investments on a wider scale. If we are also talking here about environmental objectives, such as CO2 money or improving the energy efficiency of buildings, then here too, we should actually look at the fact that these are not often 'public' buildings, but are still public-service buildings. At the time, we proposed this wording so that there would be no obstacles and that afterwards it would not be said that it did not belong to the state, it belonged to the local government or the private sector. In the case of local authorities in particular, this support could certainly be obtained. And, to a certain extent, perhaps depending on the possibilities and budgetary rules, the application of nursing homes to the private sector, namely, increasing energy efficiency, which also fulfils climate targets, could also be the place where extra money is to be allocated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U332	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U333	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for his good answers. As an entrepreneur in the past, I recognise that the whole problem of all this dignified ageing is in many ways invisible. You don't sense it that well. It was only after I had worked in the local government for a long time that I realized how important it really is, how painful it is and how much it requires attention. However, I come back to the point on which you responded to a good colleague here that the local government should have the opportunity to assess whether there are such relationships and backgrounds in the family or why the municipality should take the place of loved ones as a vigilante. In fact, it is quite difficult for local authorities to look inside and understand what relationships have been in one family, especially decades ago. How would you advise local authorities to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U334	Thank you for your question. I'm sure it's complicated. I won't deny it. When we talk about the local government's own area, it is, of course, dependent on whether it is a family that has lived in the region, whether it has previously been legally registered, whether it has been known to the local government's own representatives, etc. The local government itself is known to deal with both child protection and social work issues, which may be complaints, concerns or cases that the municipality itself has already documented. And there must certainly be some use of this common sense here and a case-by-case approach. I certainly do not mean that every time someone requests an exemption from a seat fee, it should be done immediately. This is where people must be met, impressed, and information must be gathered that is publicly available, or that is where a person can submit them, and that is how that decision is to be made. Such a black and white guide certainly cannot be done, but I think that flexibility in the wider social sector and in the health sector needs to be added in the same way, I think, in most areas of the public sector. We often have one answer to the questions, one level of support, and one sure solution. In my area of work, let us give an example of whether or not you should be unemployed or not working, etc. Such black and white answers, which often do not come together with themselves, should certainly be less flexible and more flexibility would be needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U335	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U336	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. I don't ask about money in a nursing home. I'm one of those people who's had a personal relationship with one nursing home for two years. This nursing home is closed, couldn't take flowers on Mother's Day, can't take packages. How do you look at the question of the opening of nursing homes, in connection with what you have emphasised several times today that the virus has receded? How, at what stages and within what time frame could the opening of nursing homes take place? Those who await this news are on one side and on the other side of the door and window.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U337	Thank you for your question. Undoubtedly, as far as the opening stages are concerned, we will actually discuss this tomorrow in our cabinet. We will also hear the proposals of the Scientific Advisory Board. I'm sorry! Not in the cabinet, but initially in the COVID-19 committee, we are discussing this, tomorrow we both have three hours of committee first, and then we have three hours of government meeting. Our own proposal is to go down the path of opening up certain confidence measures, either as soon as the emergency situation has ended or as of 1 June at the latest. These confidence measures should be primarily the use of personal protective equipment, i.e. protective masks, of course also the purity of COVID-19 in a particular nursing home. If there are people with a diagnosis, you can't let anyone in there, it's basic. But when it comes to a nursing home where there is no known infected person and a person wants to visit a loved one, the first preference is to do so if possible in the fresh air, even though we understand very well that it is not always possible for a person to visit his or her loved ones. If it is not possible to meet in the fresh air, this meeting must be arranged using personal protective equipment, preferably using one of these rooms, i.e. not in such a way that there are four clients in one room or more in one room and such a larger gathering that we have deliberately reduced in nursing homes. Perhaps, unfortunately, such time spent in large spaces together now needs to be reduced somewhat in order to reduce the risk of infection. And we've also developed such trust measures, six-seven-eight points. The main information and sources of care homes have been gathered on about two pages. We await the scientific council's assessment of whether we dare, knowing all these risks, to go this way even after the emergency situation has ended, or whether there will still be a small reference period, and we will reach it, for example, from 1 June. However, I cannot personally imagine that this could be even later, because the real need and desire to meet people is great, in a situation where we have already gone the way to opening up on a number of other issues, because in fact the corona virus has decreased in Estonia. I would say that this has taken place at a faster pace than most dared to hope. A month ago, the numbers were many times higher, in some areas ten times higher than they are now. Let's look at the Saaremaa numbers, for example, where we're already talking about isolated cases in two weeks, while at the peak we were talking about 314. In Estonia as a whole, we talked about 750 infected people in the order of size in two weeks at the peak, today we are talking about 94, which is a seven-fold decline and the downward trend continues. In this view, I think it should be possible to visit the loved ones by 1 June at the latest, but if the assessment of the scientific council and these confidence measures allow this, perhaps earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U338	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U339	Thank you, Mr President, for giving the floor. Dear Minister, We've talked to you about informal care quite a few times in this Chamber, some of us quite a few more times. You are certainly such a minister, it does not seem to be very common in the current government, who understands what is essentially happening in his field, and you answer questions very essentially. At least you give the impression that you are concerned about the same things that Social Democrats have raised in connection with the issue of informal care. But in one of your earlier responses, you just said that the Minister cannot say any dates, yet you should have some sort of plan of work that you want to do. For example, at the last time in the supplementary budget, when the Social Democrats proposed that specific money be allocated to informal care, I never heard you fight for your sausages and say some clear words when you want something. Can you tell me, though, what your plan of work is? When should the most important things in informal care be resolved? As a member of the government, what suggestions do you make regarding both the cost of a nursing home and, for example, the allowance for disabled people, which has also not increased for more than 10 years, but is certainly important for the possibilities of informal care?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U340	Thank you for your question. I really did answer before the question of when the average pension will be paid to a nursing home. That answer, I think, can't be given by anyone in this room, because whatever date we say, we'd be fooling ourselves. As far as other work is concerned, as has been said, it may be the most time-critical at the moment, even if this corona crisis ends, really negotiating the funds of the European Union referred to by your colleague Kalvi Tough. Because, in fact, this budget period is about to begin, in 2021 and beyond. Perhaps we need to see enough of this area to make the necessary investments in the social sector as a whole and in long-term care. The second firm date is indeed by the end of the year to give the government office specific proposals on how to implement this direction of the state and local government, i.e. the principle of compensation for a fair place payment, as well as the assessment of the person's own ownership, as well as the exemption from the maintenance obligations of the grandchildren I referred to earlier, as well as the possibility of increasing the volume of services as such, particularly in terms of channelling to home services. We will come up with these proposals this year. As far as the wider objective is concerned, I think that the main objective is, on the one hand, to lose people's own ownership, initially to slow down this rise, and, on the other hand, undoubtedly to increase the number of recipients as a whole, not necessarily in general care homes, but more generally in care services. I have also pointed out in the past that there is an estimated 120,000 places in Estonia, a service, and the recipients are in the order of 70000. So the 50,000 scissors are in here, and that's one of those problems that won't solve in one year, but if you don't solve it right now, you won't get a solution. Here, in my opinion, the contribution of every local authority is also important. I have met a lot of people myself, and I have just talked about it, also highlighting national statistics on how much money one or the other municipality is channeling into the social sphere and putting it to the heart that, of course, there are a lot of costs, there are many responsibilities for local government, but the social sector is one of the most important areas of health for people, and that is where additional resources need to be directed. It is a pleasure to note that local governments are broadly all in agreement with this and on one side and do not wish to place this responsibility anywhere. Rather, it has indeed been about the revenue base and the financial opportunities that have improved somewhat in good times, but now, unfortunately, in times of crisis, they may fall. So this debate about the local governments' own money must certainly also be held so that the necessary social services are available to people even during the crisis, because the revenue base of the municipalities will be lower in the coming years than the original forecasts envisaged.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U341	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U342	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! Hundreds, if not thousands, of people listening to us today who have lost their jobs during the crisis and are therefore struggling to pay the place fee for their loved one's nursing home. What is your message? Did I understand you correctly that these families will not receive any additional support from the state this year? You will not be able to tell us today of any particular date on which you are prepared to fight for the necessary money in the state budget. What is your message to those families who expect additional support from the state today, now and now, or at the latest in the autumn, in order to cope with these obligations? This need is real, these people cannot wait a year or two for the government to finally get this far with its discussions. When will this bonus come?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U343	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, people have had to wait for years, both when the Social Democrats have been in power and filled the same position as ministers, and in previous years. So I think it is easy to be so powerful in opposition, of course, but unfortunately in real life, finding a solution has not proved so easy, regardless of who is currently holding the position of minister. As far as this year is concerned, people must, in particular, turn to their local government, which is legally active in this field. As has been said, unlike the previous economic crisis, this is certainly well remembered in 2009 by the Social Democrats, led by the former Minister of Finance, where, in fact, cuts were made, which were not supported by all those parties in the coalition, I would not have supported either. You did the right thing! During this crisis, the state did not go to cut the revenue of the municipalities, but, on the contrary, to increase it. Perhaps EUR 130 million were found there, not decided to reduce the money from the municipalities. This is certainly one clear message, which also gives the municipality the opportunity to support these same people in paying the place fee for the nursing home. I very much hope that this money will be used for this purpose among others. I'm pretty sure they will. As has been said, municipalities take their responsibilities seriously, and I also believe in this fact, rather than cutting their income in difficult moments, the way in which profits are increased is definitely noticed by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U344	Thank you, Your Honor, the addressee of the inquiry. Mr Minister, there are no further questions for you. It is possible to give speeches. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U345	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Good fellows! Thank you very much, first of all, to the Minister for his answers. Sadly, these answers did not give rise to much hope. But hope is the last to die. The year 2022 is very far away. I am afraid that very many people need help and those close to their families are now faced with the difficult question of how to proceed. For them, perhaps 2022 is hopelessly late. I am convinced that there are no people in this Chamber today who do not know about the problems that actually govern health care and welfare arrangements. To do so, you do not even have to have comprehensive or higher education. There are people in this hall who have experience in the work of local governments, and we all have people in need of care and care in our family or friends. The fact that the social sector has been unfunded for years is true, it is not news to anyone. I would, of course, be unfair if I said that nothing has been done, but unfortunately it is a bit tinkered in one corner and then in the other corner without seeing a larger and whole picture. The Minister has already mentioned here how much people's own participation in paying for a nursing home has risen to 80%. Just one of the most marked examples is that according to the Ministry of Social Affairs, in 2018 people paid EUR 53 million for the care home service, it was the retirement of the elderly themselves and the fees paid by the grandchildren, and the state spent EUR 14 million on the care home service at that time. If we compare it with the year 2008, if the state and local government expenditure on nursing home services was 11 million and the people paid only 17.5 million, then within 10 years the cost of local government has increased 3.5 million euros, but the cost of people themselves has increased 35,5 million. In fact, the development of the Social Welfare Development Plan for the years 2005 to 2015 started already in 2002, but the work plan of the current government states that only by the end of 2022 will the draft Long-Term Care Act be presented in the planning. We all know, as politicians, that nothing will change until 2022, but it is clearly too late. In fact, everything has been analyzed, piloted, studied and audited. We can only mention a small list of the fact that there was a maintenance task force, there was an international study and the Ministry had launched development projects. In fact, it is clear what needs to be done in this area. I understand there isn't enough money, but there isn't enough. Finally. When the Minister referred here to the fact that the Social Democrats were also in the government. And indeed, in 2014-2015 was the last time the Social Democrats had a portfolio of the Minister for Social Protection. Then, together with the Reform Party, we increased child support that remained unchanged for more than ten years. If the employment portfolio of the Minister of Social Affairs had remained for the Social Democrats, then I am absolutely certain that it would not have been necessary to present such an inquiry today from this desk and you would not have had to answer, because this would have been done. But what can you do about it? It is also sad that, if there is nothing to be done in this area only in 2022, the disability allowance for elderly people to compensate for the costs of the illness has been unchanged for more than ten years. Thanks to the initiative of the Social Democrats and the Social Committee, children's and disabled people's benefits were raised in the previous Riigikogu, which, as of 1 January of this year, will provide assistance to people, but the benefits for older people have been unchanged for more than ten years. Be a good man and do it to help! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U346	Thank you very much. The desire to speak more has not been revealed, so the negotiations on this matter have been concluded and the questioning process has also been closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U347	We will look at the next item, the last one for today: Members of the Riigikogu Lauri Läänemets, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Küti, Raimond Kaljulaid, Indrek Saare, Heljo Pikhofi, Ivari Padari, Jaak Juske and Katri Raigi submitted an inquiry on 22 April 2020 to the Social Minister Tanel Kiige. Please, Mr Ossinovski, representative of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U348	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would like to present the question that I and my fellow Members have put forward concerning abnormally high pharmaceutical prices. If, on the previous point, a member of the Government of the Republic could, as expected, direct people to ask for help from the local government, this cannot be done because the pharmaceutical market and pharmaceutical policy are the responsibility of the Estonian central government. Our inquiry is motivated by two factors that point to a lack of organisation of the pharmaceutical market or an error that emerged from the analysis carried out by Õnnuleht. The Evening Paper is, as is some other media publication, but the Evening Paper is particularly seriously concerned with the organisational problems of the pharmaceutical market over the last six months. It is a pleasure that things have hatched there that are extremely important and have not been very acutely recognised so far. There were two issues that we are asking the Minister for an opinion on. The first concerns the well-known question that we have price-fixing medicines, most of the active ingredients of preferential medicines, i.e. the state has agreed with the pharmaceutical company that it is possible to get the medicine at a controlled price, most of which are reimbursed by the Health Insurance Fund. At the same time, we know that there are also medicines on the market that are the same as the active substance, but more expensive. It is as if it should be possible for patients to receive medicines cheaply, but somehow a large number of people pay more for medicines than they could pay. That's what we've seen for years. There have been many reasons for this, for example: people like to buy more expensive medicines because these brands are good. And there are many other reasons. But one of them, which is still haunted, is that it is not always possible to buy the cheapest medicine from the pharmacy. The Agency has said that sometimes, from time to time, it is such a concern, but it is not overwhelming. However, the analysis of the evening has shown that it is actually massive. The fact that the pharmacy is able to obtain a price-fixing medicine for almost all active substances is very rare. This is the first block of our questions: how does a member of the government feel that the supervisory function of the Agency or other public authorities, mainly the Agency, should be enhanced to ensure that the most favourable medicines are actually available to the patient by means of price fixing. Because very often they don't at the moment, and people pay too much, even if they want to spend less. The second issue is particularly complex and therefore difficult to deal with in the debate on accessibility. This is because we do have a marginal price for certain active substances, or even for almost all active substances, if at least several medicinal products are on the market with the same active substance, but limit price agreements are only concluded for one specific package. This means that if a doctor prescribes a medicine with a different strength to the patient, he can pay significantly more for the medicine than he would actually have to pay in terms of logic, because the logic of the state agreement, which is enshrined in the law, is precisely that one package protects both the health insurance fund and the patient, but all other packages protect the health insurance fund's budget so that the health insurance fund does not pay too much, but whether a person pays a lot or a little is left to dealers and manufacturers. Experience, as always in this area, is this: If you can still take more than one skin from people, you will also be taken. As a result, we have questions for the Minister about how it would be reasonable and necessary to amend the laws so that the people of Estonia can get medicines as favorably as possible and can stop these excessive withdrawals. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U349	Thank you. Here's the chair for Helmen Hunter. I'm sorry! Tanel Swing is an omen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U350	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you again for raising the important issue. We could also discuss this issue on 22 April, when Question Time had a question of the same substance, rather a number, and now, of course, I am happy to explain and give answers to pharmaceutical prices in the form of an inquiry. The development of pharmaceutical prices and the smooth functioning of the supply area are undoubtedly crucial issues. We also see during the current crisis that supply difficulties, various export restrictions and stocks of medicines have proved to be a major challenge in a number of European countries. We have actually handled the whole situation in Estonia, you could say, quite well. The current system of price caps for medicines has rather justified itself, but of course there are also bottlenecks and aspects that can be improved. I think that both the analysis of the Evening Festival itself and the concerns expressed by the Socialists will certainly help to keep this system going and to keep it in balance, but also to make it even better. Once again, I will answer by question. The first question: 'How do you plan to reform the system of supervision of the Agency in order to ensure that medicines with price fixing are actually available in pharmacies? ' When we talk about the availability of medicines in price fixing, it depends on a number of factors: does the pharmacy order a limited priced medicinal product, is it possible for the pharmacy to order the necessary medicinal product? Periodic fluctuations in the sales position of a particular medicinal product at the pharmacy are mostly related to the time between the purchase of the medicinal product and the arrival of the order. The Pharmaceutical Act obliges the pharmacy to ensure the availability of a medicinal product marketed in Estonia within a reasonable period of time on the basis of a marketing authorisation or marketing authorisation, in accordance with § 45 (5) of the Pharmaceutical Act. Secondly, the same law obliges the sale of medicinal products subject to a limit price and a price agreement under the Health Insurance Act to ensure that at least one medicinal product containing the same active substance is marketed, that is § 45 (9) of the Pharmaceutical Act. In summary, this means: First of all, it does not oblige pharmacies to keep on the spot the nomenclature of all medicinal products for which a price agreement has been concluded and a price limit has been established, but, in the event that the pharmacy procures medicinal products for this active substance and route of administration, the medicinal product must first be obtained by way of a price fixing. Secondly, under this provision there must also be no price-fixing or marginal-price medicine, but a medicinal product subject to a limit price under the Health Insurance Act and a price-fixing agreement, i.e. both conditions must be met. Thirdly, the pharmacy must not always provide the basis for the price cap when it is issued, but a medicinal product with less ownership. The conditions and procedures for prescribing medicinal products, issuing them from the pharmacy and the form of the prescription, § 6 (5) as set out. In summary, the pharmacy does not need to have all medicines equal to the price fixing and the marginal price in Estonia at all times, but must be the ones sold by a particular pharmacy in its range. If there is no medicine suitable for the patient, i.e. a smaller-owned medicine, available at the pharmacy, the pharmacy can explain it to the patient and open it up and also order it separately for the patient. And it must be ensured within a reasonable period of time. According to the Agency, the monitoring of the presence of medicinal products at marginal prices is a priority, and this is done at every pharmacy inspection. If deficiencies occur, the Agency will carry out follow-up and the results of the monitoring will be published on the website of the Agency on a regular basis. For example, if we look at the Agency's data on the lack of price fixing medicine in 2019, we will see that over the years it has decreased by almost half. And in fact, the plan for the last five or six years of 2019 has been a record year. Perhaps 140 pharmacies and 4420 active substances were tested at the time and 58 were not available. Looking at the so-called worst years, I will give you an example from 2014, 148 pharmacies, i.e. of the same size, were tested at 3580, even less, and no price fixing medicine was available in 289 cases. Maybe it was over four times as much back then. As has been said, compared to last year, there has also been a reduction of almost half of the previous year's 96. The Agency will also continue to be able to use public datasets, the data of which will be updated once a day, as a possible input for monitoring of the analysis. We are also considering introducing an additional requirement which would oblige the pharmacy to keep the medicinal products at the nearest price to the marginal price on sale, unless there is a marginal price for the same active substance and formulation. All of this, of course, requires additional resources for monitoring, but not always has to be regulated by supervision; it is also a question of agreements and cooperation within the pharmaceutical sector. Question 2: 'How do you intend to protect patients from excessive pharmaceutical prices for quantities other than packaging and/or packaging containing active substances? ' If we look at the data of the Institute for Health Development in 2019, the costs of the largest patient's own participation in dental care were 27.9%, and the costs of the private participation in medicines were close to 15% of the WHO indicative limit, namely 19.5% for prescription medicines and 14.2% for over-the-counter medicines. You have highlighted these cases as a problem in the calculation of the maximum prices for medicinal products, where the prices of strength of the component of the active substance in a particular group have remained higher than this after the fall in the marginal price and it is not always possible for the patient using them to avoid the over-the-counter participation. In itself, this is an adequate raise. In cooperation with the specialists of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, we found that these groups are present in about one quarter of the active substances for which the marginal price has been calculated. This has mostly been on the market for a long time and has significantly reduced the cost of medicines, where the price added to the patient at marginal prices is within EUR 2-3 per purchase. And in the case of such medicinal products, even the basic level of ownership, i.e. retail prices below EUR 2,5, can be found, which the sickness fund would not compensate anyway. Perhaps this does not necessarily mean that the price is more expensive for the patient. Everything depends specifically on the price of the medicinal product; a certain amount of own contribution must be paid either way. Due to absolutely low prices, some euros also provide a high price difference as a percentage. You have to look at both of these at the same time, as well as the price of the medicine. The aim of the price cap system is to save money on patients and health insurance, so that it can be continued for new treatment options. The current system of drug price caps has been in place in Estonia since 2005 and, in order to reduce the burden of own contribution, there is also a system of preferential rates of 50%, 75% and 90%, respectively, which the sickness fund will compensate for. In order to reduce the burden of ownership, the principles of supplementary medical benefits have been amended in 2018 for costs exceeding EUR 100 per year. I think it's a very good decision. In cooperation with the Health Insurance Fund, we have a personal-based self-participation analysis that analyses all the costs incurred by services, medicines and medical devices reimbursed to a person by health insurance. The analysis shall examine, inter alia, the period prior to the supplementary medical benefit, so that it is actually possible to assess its impact. The analysis should have been completed by autumn, but since the emergency situation has led to other tasks for both the Health Insurance Fund and the other parties, it may shift. However, we hope to complete the analysis by the end of the year at the latest. According to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, their aim is already to ensure, in negotiations with the representatives of pharmaceutical companies, that the active substances covered by the limit price, i.e. all medicinal products containing different active substances, are available to humans within the limits of the current limit prices. For some medicines, for example, when we are talking about the same active substance, but tablets with different levels of active substance can be changed to the limit price system, but this is likely to require additional money from the pharmaceutical insurance and would favour pharmaceutical companies rather than patients. Perhaps the estimate is that in this case, there would actually be less money left on new medicines. The introduction of price caps on a pharmaceutical basis would, according to the Health Insurance Fund, result in an additional cash requirement of EUR 1.5 million per year for health insurance. At the same time, however, this would lead to an increase in the marginal and retail price of medicinal products, actually reducing the price advantage of generic medicinal products. As a result, a small market in Estonia could become less attractive to generic manufacturers and in the future only the original medicinal product would be available, for example. So it could be an anti-patient step in the long run. As the cap increases, the preferential rate of 50%, 75% or 90% of it will also increase, the inevitable own contribution will remain, which will affect more and more patients. As the heirs rightly point out, the increase in the patient's ownership is due to the lack of limited-price medicines. A significant reason is the increase in supply difficulties for medicines worldwide, especially in times of emergency. Last year, the Agency received nearly 300 notifications of difficulty in delivering the medicine. In fact, in the first quarter of this year, these same communications have come three times more than in previous years in the same period. Perhaps, unfortunately, we really see that the supply difficulties that have also been found in the media have actually affected the availability of medicines. I myself and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have done a great deal of good work to tilt the possible restrictions and decisions of other countries in a positive direction so that the people of Estonia can get the necessary medicines. In addition, on 17 April, we signed such a cooperation agreement with seven wholesale pharmaceutical companies to ensure the availability of the most important medicines for Estonian patients during the emergency situation. Perhaps there was an obligation to keep a very large list of medicines in Estonia with a two-month supply so that people would not immediately have a shortage of medicines in the event of possible supply difficulties. In addition, we intend to negotiate with the Agency and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund the principles of maintaining such a permanent stock in order to avoid the increased participation of patients due to supply difficulties or the availability of medicines. The meeting on this subject has now been held in May of this year, and follow-up meetings are also planned. In fact, we have already discussed the same issue with wholesalers, pharmaceutical manufacturers and doctors and pharmacists, as well as with trades representatives. The issue of availability of medicines, supply difficulties and the possible holding of stocks on the ground is not new, but this must certainly be taken forward at the latest at the end of the emergency situation and, in fact, in part, even during the emergency situation. Like I said, we've been working on it. The third question: Do you consider it fair that patients with the same diagnosis are placed in a financially unequal position if they have been prescribed by a doctor with the same active substance of different strengths? " To some extent, this question also refers to another question. But when we talk about the health care arrangements in Estonia, it is undoubtedly based on the principle of solidarity insurance, which I think is very right. At the same time, however, this may mean that patients are still in a financial imbalance, for a number of reasons, whether due to their own income, social status, family allowance, age or also due to the preferential rate of the recipe, personal preferences, etc. Perhaps the increase in ownership will presumably guide patients to make choices in favour of generic medicines; however, the patient must also have the option of choosing a more expensive medicine if they so wish; it is a person's decision, but the cost of more expensive original medicines, if it is a person's choice, does not always have to be covered by the common medical allowance. The compensation mechanism for medicinal products is intended to be solidarity-based. Perhaps we should first focus on the fact that patients with different diagnoses should not pay diametrically different bills for treatment. To this end, we are using complex solutions, as I said in reply to the previous question. It is also true that many patients prefer original medicines. Changing consumer habits is a long-term process. The patient is also often able to benefit from more favourable alternatives, including without excessive ownership, but for some reason this is not the case. More expensive medicines are preferred because of recommendations or habits, and this varies depending on people. It is certainly possible to raise patients' awareness of their rights and the principles of price compensation. Of course, the cooperation of doctors, patients and pharmacists plays a major role in patient counselling. Predictably, the increase in ownership leads patients to make, as has been said, choices in favour of generic medicines. Advice and the role of the pharmacy service provider in offering cheap medicines is crucial, but the final purchase decision is made by the patient himself. Question 4: 'When are you planning to launch a draft to resolve the serious deficiencies in your administration that have arisen as a result of the analysis of the Evening Page? " I fully acknowledge the effects of the evening, and I have said so before. I am not sure that solving this particular problem is feasible with one specific piece of legislation, rather it is certainly important here, as has been said, good supervision and broad-based cooperation. It is always relatively difficult to create new standards to ensure equal treatment for all patients with the same diagnosis. In the current international context, it is very important to ensure that medicines are present on the market in order to reduce the impact of supply difficulties on people. A reduction in the share of supply difficulties would already provide a significant remedy to the problem, and efforts should be made within the framework of existing regulations, both in the negotiation of pharmaceutical prices and in the use of the results of impact assessments. Perhaps the first objective could be for existing regulation to be implemented more effectively. However, we have already done some initial legal analysis. There are also probably places that we do not think need to be adapted to the Health Insurance Act, for example, the so-called analogue country cap price principle that has been applied since 2014, but all of this still requires some analysis. We do not really want to eliminate it, but the question is to what extent, in the case of the limit price of the analogue country, an opportunity could be created where public health is also entitled to opt out of it. Perhaps these decisions could be made through the Committee on Medicinal Products, which advises the health insurance fund. Indeed, we are preparing the corresponding legislative amendment, and it will certainly come before Parliament. In any case, thank you for pointing out the important issue and I will answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U351	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. First, please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U352	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! The place of care for the pension has not yet been completed, as the Ministry of Social Affairs' portfolio and responsibility for social democrats have not been in place since 2015. Fortunately, however, health and work ministers Ossinovski and Sikkut have brought relief in the area of health care, such as benefits for prescription medicines, extra money from the state budget for non-working old-age pensioners to the health insurance fund and, nevertheless, a dental benefit. My question, however, is that last year the people of Estonia actually paid almost 16 million euros over the marginal price. This is a very large amount of money, especially knowing that medicines are mostly bought by elderly people. This is certainly a very complex area, many nuances, but suddenly, as a minister, you could still formulate your goal on this issue: when and in what way could the people of Estonia start paying less for medicines?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U353	Thank you for your question. The demand for medicines is growing all the time. In itself, drug consumption is also on the rise, inevitably. As far as prices for medicinal products are concerned, as has been said, there are, in summary, a number of factors affecting them, namely the supply difficulties, these on-site stocks, this is a question of price caps, it is the availability of a specific medicinal product in the pharmacy, no doubt also the patient's own preferences. In order to make prices for medicines cheaper for people, it is necessary to work in all these directions, both in the Agency, in the sector as a whole, and in order to raise people's awareness that it is the drug that is chosen that is the same as the active substance and has the same effect, but at a price that is more favourable to the person himself. If you are asking if next year prices will be cheaper for people than this year, I would very much like to hope. But at the same time, knowing that we cannot yet assess the final effects of the corona virus on the entire pharmaceutical market, availability, production cycles and waves in Asia, as well as the regulations of the European Union, as well as Estonia's decisions, cannot be given such a promise in front of the people. But as a goal, no doubt, every next year could create more of these mechanisms, it is really the reimbursement of prescription medicines to people, as was the case with you in the previous government, or, in the case of medicines that do exceed the limit price, the possibility of replacing them with cheaper medicines, as well as providing advice to people. All these measures as a whole could certainly have the effect of reducing people's own participation next year. Will we get to that, we'll be able to appreciate that in a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U354	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U355	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In a situation where the pharmacy does not have affordable medicines for the patient, what sanctions can be imposed under the current law for the pharmacy? For example, is the €800 penalty warning normally applied by the Agency in this case sufficient in an area where millions still move?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U356	Thank you for your question. The pharmaceutical sector is exciting, it's pretty big and interesting. When we talk about the amounts that move there, I'm not entirely convinced that every particular pharmacist or pharmacist is moving such large sums of money. In particular, when we are talking about turnover, we are talking about wholesalers, we are talking about producers, we are actually talking about medicinal products moving through hospitals, which all together really amount to EUR 400 million each year. But sanctioning a particular pharmacist with coercion or other fine is definitely not my first preference. Rather, there could really be such an effective monitoring system; we also have IT solutions to improve monitoring, as well as to increase the number of pharmacies checked and find these solutions, precisely in cooperation with the parties involved in the sector. We know that the Pharmacy Reform, which entered into force on 1 April 2020 and has lasted for more than five years, was only launched in the middle of the crisis. Now we need to sit down calmly, look at all these logistics chains, supply chains and cooperation chains to understand what is behind these very lacks of medicines in a particular pharmacy. The reasons may be very different in Tallinn, for example, or in some smaller areas, where the number of patients per pharmacy is indeed significantly lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U357	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U358	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. Coming back to the subject of supervision of the Agency: you stressed that the Agency would pay attention to the limit prices for medicines. Last year, according to the authors of the question, the Agency examined only 140 pharmacies. Still in 25%, so in every fourth, it was found that a patient's favorable drug could not be purchased. That's actually quite a percentage. And if you look at what kind of precepts or penalties have been imposed, it turns out that no misdemeanor decisions were made in 2018 to 2019, and there have been only a few precepts. Don't you think this is all a little soft on this sensitive subject? It's mostly older people who buy drugs. And if EUR 16 million is paid over the marginal price per year, it is certainly not a small amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U359	Thank you for your question. Yes, as I said before, the reasons for this overpayment are different. The pharmacy is not always responsible for this, for example, if a person has preferred a medicine. Perhaps when we talk about the overall amount that people have paid over the marginal price, it cannot be written entirely into the account of pharmacists or the pharmaceutical sector, there are inevitably also people's own choices. As far as the number of pharmacies checked is concerned, it has now been stable over the years. The record number has been 182 pharmacies in 2013, if you now look at the last few years, but there have also been smaller figures, 140 is such an average. He could be somewhat larger, since the pharmacies total is 470 now at the last position, in the meantime there were 500 at this number. Undoubtedly, strengthening control would also have a positive effect here. We have already discussed this issue with the Head of the Medicines Agency during the crisis and we will certainly discuss it further after the crisis, whether it is to improve control or to impose supervisory sanctions. I myself may be in this view, particularly in the area of health, of course, of the belief that the health sector as a whole is working for human health without necessarily applying harsh control measures or, let's say, sanctions measures. Rather, these solutions need to be sought in cooperation between pharmacies and wholesalers, doctors as well as patients' representatives, the Health Insurance Fund, the Health Board and the Medicines Agency. Perhaps, in the first order, I think it is necessary to pay attention and clarify what these problems are. If we have also made meetings, then really this feedback on these concerns is very different. As has been said, it is not always a fine that improves the situation, but if these infringements are committed consciously and repeatedly, then, of course, this must also be followed by a corresponding sanction.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U360	Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U361	Thank you. Dear Minister, On the third question, good colleagues wrote you an answer that is, unfortunately, beyond the question. But since you're a smart person, you actually understand what you're talking about, so keep trying to answer the question in your own words. The question is that patients with the same diagnosis will be placed in a financially unequal position if they have been prescribed a different strength by a doctor. Perhaps the question is not that one is poorer and the other is richer or one is insured, but the other is not insured. Indeed, there are inequalities in health, but let's not talk about them now. We are specifically talking about a diagnosis where one patient is prescribed one tablet per day, for example, 50 milligrams per day, and the other one 25 milligrams per day. That's how they sell him from the pharmacy. Now, for whatever reason, the doctor decided to prescribe two tablets of 25 milligrams for a physician's reason, paying more for the treatment of the same disease in the same situation. Is that unfair or isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U362	Thank you for your question. I actually answered it more broadly. When we are talking about improving concerns, this is precisely the example where cooperation needs to be stepped up. Perhaps the same doctors, family doctors, pharmacists, as well as representatives of the pharmaceutical sector at the meetings have said that there are similar observations, where the patient really has had to buy a more expensive medicine because of either the movement of information, sometimes because of the patient's preference, but perhaps also because of cooperation. These places can actually be improved and improved, without necessarily changing the law or imposing harsh sanctions, but simply by improving the exchange of information and sharing such good practice. So if the disease can be treated with the same active substance, just another lever, which is more affordable, and it is evidence-based, then, of course, it would be reasonable and fair if you asked the word 'fair' to prescribe the same treatment scheme for people. If this is not possible, then we really need to think about how we can bring medicines with different active ingredients into this price cap system. Indeed, at the moment, as you rightly said in the second question, it will inevitably differ depending on the quantity and the active substance content. This issue, as I promised before, will certainly be dealt with when the emergency situation ends, and there will not be much time left.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U363	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U364	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You have said that the results of the data analysis of the Evening Week and the physical inspections of the Agency cannot be compared to one. However, it can be seen that data analysis allows for a much more comprehensive picture of the situation than individual inspections by the Agency. In what way do you intend to take advantage of the potential of big data in the area of medicines to ensure that the interests of patients are better protected? Because it is known that the country actually has a fairly detailed overview of the pharmaceutical sector. What plans do you have to get a better overview of the actual situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U365	Thank you! Now, if we're really talking about the analyses I brought up, they're not one to one. This does not mean that one is wrong or the other is wrong, just the methodology is different. It is perhaps one thing to look at a specific case, a specific situation, specific medicines, another to look at these reasons, to check randomly and to look over a given period of time at whether a particular supply difficulty occurred within a single day, one second or more. There are undoubtedly different effects on patients, their own participation and access to medicines. As far as the use of data is concerned, the Agency can actually use these public data files in the future; these data will be updated every day, namely as a possible input for the analysis for monitoring purposes. This has not been done on this scale so far; rather, random checks have been carried out. Perhaps with monitoring and data usage we will certainly move forward and improve it, I agree with that. As far as having "all information" is concerned more generally, when we are talking about the pricing policy of the pharmaceutical sector as a whole, it seems to me that the state has not always had the best view, even in my predecessors' time, i.e. there is certainly room for improvement, also in terms of improving information exchange. In fact, in times of emergency, we got a lot of information channels to work much more quickly than they usually do. All parties understood that mutual cooperation and close interaction are necessary precisely in order for the state to be able, for example, to help the different parties to the market in the event of supply difficulties, and that problems are not only known ex post, as has often been the case in the previous period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U366	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U367	Thank you very much for the opportunity to ask today's last question. I commend you, Tanel. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas is known for such somewhat round answers, but we see who is like a true Estonian champion on this issue. I suspect that listening to this dialogue that has been here between the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Minister, some people may really need more medicine than ever before. I ask like a simple person from the street: good minister, do you think that medicines are too expensive in Estonia or are their prices affordable? And if they are too expensive, what does the minister do to make you less expensive?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U368	Yeah, thanks for the question. It is interesting that feedback from one party comes from a different, wall to wall, depending on the question. I guess these answers start losing their quality at the same time. However, as far as prices are concerned, this is as good a question as whether pensions are too high or too low. Of course they're too low. Is the place fee for a nursing home too high? Too high for a person, while in the view of the service provider, if he has to pay people's wages, it is inevitable. As far as the price of medicines is concerned, in fact, this work is constantly being carried out both in Estonia and at European Union level. We are talking to the European Union's health ministers, for example, about the issue of the production of medicines at European Union level. Perhaps if we are dependent on other countries, on other sectors, this will inevitably also affect our ability to shape prices. We also know that the negotiations on medicines held by the Health Insurance Fund in Estonia are, in fact, often a bit like groping in the dark. Different countries receive the same active substance, the same price and the same effect at different prices. Here, too, we will certainly be able to get better conditions for Estonia in cooperation with other countries of the European Union. We have discussed joint procurement with the Baltic countries, for example, when we are talking about joint negotiations, joint positions in the acquisition of medicines, as well as to improve the price of medicines for patients. As has been said before, improving and increasing the supervision of the Agency is certainly one of the steps that brings down the price. When we talk about financial measures, they are constantly being added to the health insurance fund's price list. New medicines are also added to the list of medicines to be reimbursed, and it also offers people the possibility of receiving compensation for more medicines, which makes the price cheaper for them. And, more broadly, with market participants, we started negotiations last year when supply difficulties arose. There was also a great deal of good ideas that would require some changes to the pharmaceutical law. But these negotiations were somewhat indeed interrupted during the emergency situation and during the COVID crisis. I'm sure we'll come back to them. Appreciate the fact that this is not the case with the Minister's suites, but, of course, I and my sub-offices can and have had some influence on it. The free market as such would undoubtedly have meant higher pharmaceutical prices for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U369	Thank you, good minister. No more questions for you. Now we're opening negotiations. Speech from remote control, 5 + 3 minutes or speech from voice for 2 minutes. Evgeni Ossinovsky.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U370	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U371	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U372	The hour is really late, but nevertheless, I will make a few important remarks on this important issue. The reason we are talking about this is not that we think that the current system of reimbursement of medicinal products that has been created in Estonia would be somewhat very bad and should be changed as a whole. On the contrary, Estonia actually has a very effective system that has made medicines much more affordable for people than they would otherwise have been. This system has been recognised by a number of international organisations. We have managed to achieve a great deal with quite little money. This does not mean, of course, that there are no shortcomings in this system. And, as the Minister also said, about a quarter of those active substances for which the difference between packaging and active substance content is such, in the view of marginal prices, that some patients actually have to pay too much for it. This is a very high percentage, a quarter of the active substances. Now, the minister said I'd like to hope that the drugs will be cheaper. Now, in hope, the medications have generally not gotten any better. Knowing this area beautifully well, both at the global level, where the world's largest profits are made, and here our own small entrepreneurs, who control this market, do not lower the prices of medicines for the health of Estonian people. They don't do that. The prices of medicines in Estonia have indeed fallen for specific preparations when generic medicines have entered the market, because we have had a very strong legal framework and have done work, not the expected ones. And it makes no sense to hope on this issue either, in fact, these concerns that exist must be resolved. One concept, financial protection, or financial protection, is important for our health insurance fund's system of preferential medicines. In general, international health policy means that the state will create the necessary price caps and other regulations in order for people to have access to services financially. But we haven't always been like this. A certain anecdote sums it up. Once, when representatives of an international organisation, I think the World Health Organisation, went to the Health Insurance Fund, they asked how you had this financial protection, and received an answer that yes, we needed to protect the fund. Perhaps, then, the understanding of our health authorities at the time was that the most important thing was to protect the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. There is no doubt that the budget of the Health Insurance Fund needs to be protected, but at the same time it is also important to see that patients have medicines at an affordable price. This is what we are drawing attention to with our questioning and raising the subject. Indeed, these solutions, which can be implemented in order to include other packages in the same price agreement, etc., are complex issues in nuances, which really need to be discussed at expert level, but can be done. It really costs the health insurance fund some extra money, but if the question is that as a result, a number of people in Estonia will receive their medicines at a fair price, regardless of the strength of the active substance that the doctor has written to him, I think it is necessary to do so. Now, a little more detail about the problem. First of all, I took out one drug, metoprolol, which is the drug with the most over-the-counter funding or purchase of medicines. Perhaps patients pay the most for this medicine above the limit. There's a very acute problem with the fact that when there's another package, people obviously pay too much. We compared the years 2017 and 2019 for this active substance. The total cost of prescriptions for this particular active substance has decreased by nearly 600,000, i.e. from 4.5 million to 3.9 million. Perhaps this medicine as a whole has become more favourable. It has been won the most by the Health Insurance Fund, which has saved EUR 700000 on it, but the patient's own contribution to the prescription has not fallen, but has risen. Perhaps in two years, the Health Insurance Fund has saved money on it, but patients have started to pay more. There are different nuances about why it is like this, but it cannot be said that it is not a problem and we can just hope that in the future people will do things differently or that pharmaceutical manufacturers will simply lower the price. It is not just pharmaceutical companies who lower their prices. And why would they? They do business, too. That is why I consider the proactive approach of the state to be extremely important. The other side concerns the supervision of the Agency. Indeed, we are sitting on a very large data array in terms of health. We have an awfully well-activated e-health system, we know exactly what from the pharmacy at the price of buying out medicines, who sold them. We have an awfully good overview, but we're still pretty poor at using this data. The Health Insurance Fund is already able to do this relatively well through the prescription centre, for example, we were able to start the same supplement on it, so the pharmacy will see how much you have paid for medicines a year, and the discount will automatically be calculated. I remember being told how this is all impossible and requires years of preparation. In fact, it was all possible, we have this data, i.e. we get it if we want it. But if we take the supervision of the Agency now, then there's still a way that where this inspector arrives, we'll identify something, but where the inspector didn't get the damage, we couldn't do that. And, indeed, I removed all orders from the Agency's register of documents within two years. I have seen that four pharmacies have come together for not having a price-fixing prescription, and for everyone, the same was true: if you order the medicines by tomorrow, there is nothing, but if you don't order it, you will receive 800 euros of money warning. Well, it's not really a serious story! It is clear that it will be possible to buy them for the next day even if you really want to sell more expensive medicines, i.e. you are selling more expensive products all the time, but when the inspector has gone, you will buy some cheaper ones. This is not really supervision, let us admit. It is possible to do so in cooperation and in a spirit of cooperation. As the Minister has told us, good cooperation in this area is the basis for everything. Excellent! To confirm this good cooperation, digital tools could actually be used to actually enforce national regulation so that people actually receive these more favourable medicines. Perhaps it is not a matter of fundamentally transforming the system, but if the state is talking about a avoidable own contribution, then it must, in principle and actually, be avoidable. If a person cannot buy the cheapest medicine because it is not in a pharmacy, it is not avoidable to own a participation. So the state has failed to do its job and the patients are unprotected. Considering it's a very vulnerable group of people, it shouldn't be done. So the strength to work, you have to do better!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U373	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Does the Minister have a wish for a closing statement? No, it's not. Thank you! Then I'll stop answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-11_U374	And now everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. But there is no free microphone request, so the trial is closed. Good night. Closure of the sitting at 21.41 p.m.
