ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 6th working week Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session. To begin with, members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and questions. There are no requests for referrals of drafts or enquiries. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are missing. Let's go to the agenda. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I will vote on the 6th working week agenda of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U2	We will go to today's agenda: Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaanus Karilaidi, Urmas Espenbergi, Urmas Reitelmanni, Uno Kaskpeiti, Kalle Grünthali, Kai Rimmeli, Kert Kingo, Jaak Valge, Leo Kunnase, Paul Puustusmaa, Riho Breiveli, Tiit Kala, Anti Polandmets, Merry Aarti, Siim Pohlak and Henn Põljaasa, first reading of the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law. I ask Helle-Moonika Helme, member of the Riigikogu, to wait for the speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U3	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you a draft which is once again being dealt with by the pharmaceutical reform. The new regime, which will enter into force on 1 April, has not been created in the current or even previous Riigikogu. Unfortunately, the responsibility for preventing the harmful consequences of this reform falls to the present Riigikogu, both the coalition and the opposition, all of us. The main objective of the bill 139 is that, even after 1 April, medicines would be available to all Estonians, so that there would not be a mass closure of pharmacies either in the country or in the city, so that there would not be a scheme and a circumvention of the meaning of the law through tankers, so that there would not be a reduction in competition on the wholesale market and, inevitably, a subsequent increase in prices, a reduction in choice of medicines and a deterioration in the quality of service. I believe that all MPs in this Chamber want to see good access to medicines from a pharmacy close to home, want to see lower prices and a high level of advice in pharmacies. Unfortunately, once it is in force on 1 April, none of these objectives will be achieved. On the contrary, we can clearly see that there is a wave of pharmacies closing, a reduction in competition and an increase in prices. We still have a way of preventing this. We have a duty to react and act to protect the interests of our constituents when we see damage happening. I would like to point out that together here, we all have the opportunity to stand up for the interests of our constituents and to prevent the coming crisis. Our draft is different from the one voted down in December in this very Chamber in a few important aspects. We want to lift the restrictions on ownership, which only allows pharmacists to own pharmacies. In our opinion, such a restriction does not contribute to a better functioning of the pharmacy market and does not lead to any positive changes in the wholesale market. It is also a barrier to a number of very strong constitutions, both in terms of ownership and freedom to conduct a business. In order to create greater competition and freedom of purchase in the wholesale market, we have introduced a regulation into the draft, which would also allow hospitals and pharmacies to buy medicines from sellers who are not Estonian wholesalers. We also believe that by granting hospitals the right to market their purchased medicines in retail trade, we will contribute to better access to medicines and lower prices. These changes represent major and more fundamental changes in the pharmaceutical market than simply reversing the planned pharmaceutical reform. It is thanks to these clauses that there are no serious accusations that we are acting in the interests of powerful market players. We act only and unambiguously in the interests of the people of Estonia and their health. However, I understand that these very important changes may require more debate than the short timeframe that we have left before 1 April will allow. I therefore call on the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading of this draft in order to seek a compromise at second reading, which would enable us to deal with the most urgent task: to ensure that, even after 1 April, all people have their near-home pharmacy legally working and the medicines available. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the completion of the first reading of our draft so that we can move swiftly towards second reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U4	Thank you. Dear waitress, You have questions too. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U5	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, From your report, we have just heard that the proposed draft is very necessary and would, as a law, ensure better access to medicines and the independence of pharmacies. At the same time, I believe that an e-mail from the Association of Estonian Pharmacists has come into the mailbox of all members of the Riigikogu, asking for the draft that has just been submitted to be rejected and given to pharmacies or to retain independence and independence. I don't understand if we don't trust our pharmacists, our pharmacists' association, our pharmacists' pharmacies. Those two things don't match each other. How do you comment on whether we don't trust them or why they shouldn't listen to what they think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U6	Thank you, good questioner! I'm sure we trust the pharmacists. The importance of pharmacists in the functioning of our pharmacies cannot be underestimated. But in our mailboxes, I don't know if you've come, but at least we got another letter too. It's a letter from a pharmacist. I'll read it out here when I'm given the opportunity. 'Please take a moment and listen to what has to be said by pharmacists who actually work with patients on a daily basis rather than professionally doing politics or putting away. There are 1000 active pharmacists in Estonia, with even 1400 of us in the register of pharmacists. The request would be for you to support the lifting of restrictions on pharmacy property in the EKRE draft. The pharmacists do not want to receive free gifts or become entrepreneurs due to circumstances. This vague status is not needed, in particular, for pharmacists who are made responsible for business, without experience and without their deep inner advice, not to mention the creation of financial guarantees. Nor does such re-formulation contribute to improving the quality of the pharmacy service. It is long overdue for patients; their satisfaction is already very high today. And in our daily contacts with the visitors of the pharmacy, we must always answer questions as to why such a reform of the pharmacy is being carried out and in whose interests. Patients are not interested in the property of the pharmacy, but only in the confidence that my friend's pharmacy is open and my friend's pharmacist always advises me on the best and most favorable medicine. I was a pharmacy owner from 1996 to 2002 and acted as an entrepreneur. I know what it means to have a business instead of a professional job if there is not enough money to pay if there is no time to rest, because there is always a need to be at work. I am surprised that the state is putting us as pharmacists in a position where we will soon be under this responsibility. In addition, pharmacists who lose a stable employer and cannot do anything for themselves are also of great concern. In addition to the pharmacists working in chain pharmacies, many of today's pharmacists are also in an absolutely inescapable situation. One example. Today, two pharmacists are both pharmacy owners with equal shares of 50% and 50%. Before an effective law, they become incompatible and should close the pharmacy at a place where no other pharmacy is available, or one of them will have to give up its participation. There are more than 30 similar pharmacies belonging to several pharmacists or spouses. Some may be able to agree, but for many, this is a total deadlock caused by the legislator. And these aren't big chains, they're just a few pharmacists. It is still in your hands to end the screaming injustice and confusion at this last minute. Please do not allow the pharmaceutical reform to enter into force. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U7	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good lady waitress! You don't have to read a letter to answer me. My question concerns the wider impact of this draft on our economic and business environment. In my opinion, the situation that has arisen in the pharmacy market during the current coalition, this confusion and unpredictability, does not benefit the Estonian economy. Predictability of the economic environment is a very important asset for businesses. It seems to me that with this bill that you have brought into this Chamber today and that you are calling for this to be dealt with, you will certainly not reduce this confusion, but rather increase it. Before the entry into force of an important reform, there is a complete lack of clarity about what will happen next. And I think that this confusion is damaging not only the specific market we are talking about today, but the economic environment as a whole. My question is who is responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U9	Well, the reform has actually been legalised by the earlier Riigikogus. As I said in my report, neither the current government nor the current Riigikogu are really responsible for this mess. If a large number of pharmacies go to prison on April 1 or 2, we will surely have a situation where people are looking at us. Your voters, all our voters, ask why my pharmacy went away, why you didn't do anything. This is where I call on all of you to support this draft. We will pass it through first reading, make improvements, and then, I hope, it will benefit both our business environment and our country, both our consumers and our customers, in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U10	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U11	Thank you. Good waitress! You are not a member of the Social Affairs Committee, and so you do not know that instead of scaring off pharmacies immediately, the Agency will explain very well that pharmacies are coming. These applications are being made on a massive scale, and people are now employed there because they simply cannot be done. And all they want is for there to be peace, so we don't turn anything back here again. You are scaring some fine claims, but it is known that European courts have been met, as well as here in court everywhere. There's no right, there's five years. At the same time, I would like to add that wholesalers pay people how and how much they sell through. But that can't be the goal of selling as many drugs as possible! And competition is not decreasing, it is increasing. It is estimated at 10,000 per cent because, now, if three and a half chains are competing, then all separate pharmacies will come. And I really ask: why do you want to support the commercial interests of the big chains and the empire of chain pharmacies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U12	Thank you, good questioner! We certainly do not want to support chain pharmacies with this bill. I think we stand for freedom of business in general, but in fact we also stand for those pharmacists who already have pharmacies. But many, if this law should now enter into force on 1 April, have indeed not been able to adapt to it. Even pharmacists in rural areas should, unfortunately, be closed if they do not break the law and circumvent it. Well, I don't think that's supposed to be the purpose of any law that we're creating this kind of way, how do I say it? A legal vacuum for no matter how long. This cannot be called a reversal in the sense that we are actually legitimising the existing situation and that everyone who currently has a pharmacy can continue to operate calmly. This is absolutely nothing to do with protecting someone's interests. We defend the clause of § 32 of the Constitution concerning the protection of property. This is, in fact, in our business environment, unless we are now going to change it with this reform, the best way of doing it at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U13	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U14	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I was very surprised to hear your speech defending this bill. A month ago, this type of intimidation by closing pharmacies after 1 April would have seemed more credible, but after Margus Linnamäe has said in the media on 7 February that pharmacies will not be closed from 1 April, it is very surprising to continue with this type of intimidation. Are you not aware of this, or do you have information that Margus Linnamäe lied to the media and still intends to close the pharmacies from April 1st?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U15	Well, let's just say that no entrepreneur really wants to close down his business, that's obvious. And we also know that during the process, we can call it such a jook scheme, the pharmacies have either been played to the pharmacists, handed over to them or whatever. We can also call it potjom Kinnisvara, and from the point of view of good legal space and good practice, this behaviour is not really nice. And in fact, the state also comes with claims for compensation, we know that they will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U16	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There is one paragraph in the explanatory memorandum to this draft you are presenting concerning the breach of obligations arising from external agreements. I quote this a little: 'It is worth pointing out that important investments in existing pharmacies have also been made by investors from foreign countries (Germany, Sweden, Lithuania, etc.) who have taken the view that such ownership restrictions violate international investment protection agreements. " And later it is added that this could result in a lot of financial requirements and even a deterioration in relations between countries. Please, would you expand some of this information that there might be financial demands and perhaps even a deterioration in relations between states? You probably have more information than you can see from the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U18	Thank you, good questioner! Well, in that case, if there's a reason for any claims, these requirements will definitely come. In what ways and in what size, we don't know yet, but they're coming. However, as far as European Union law is concerned, all the proposals in the draft are in line with European Union law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U19	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I don't know if in your introductory speech you deliberately or accidentally made a mistake by telling the hall that property should be handed over to the pharmacists. I don't remember handing over all the property to the pharmacists. Maybe you just had a glitch. Would you correct or clarify this statement? Here's the second question. Can you comment on the information received from the public that the price level of chain pharmacies is higher for consumers than the price level of pharmacists? Can you explain what this is about?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U21	I'll start with the second question. As far as the price level of pharmacists and chain pharmacies is concerned, if you go down here from Toompea, there's a pharmacist's pharmacy right here. I have visited it many times and have not noticed that there are cheaper prices. So in this sense, pharmacists are like traders, and I see no reason that if a pharmacist owns a pharmacy, why should he offer there very much cheaper prices than those which are universally valid on the market. And your first question was? Oh, yeah, it was about me saying, like, that we were giving... [[The floor shall be specified.]] Well, no matter how much we talk about ownership restrictions, and when we talk about taking away legitimate property, how I say, from the law, no matter how large a percentage of property is going to be abandoned, it is still a huge violation of ownership. In this sense, it does not matter whether it is 100%, 50%, 49% or 20%.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U22	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U23	Thank you. I am a fiery supporter of the free market and an advocate of more competition. There's no doubt about it. There are a few points in your bill that I don't even like for a gram. For example, the fact that you want to give the retailer a wholesale right. Wholesale distributors are subject to certain obligations under the Pharmaceutical Act in relation to the safety of medicines and other matters. Therefore, losing the so-called wholesale market in essence, which you want to do now, is certainly not a sensible idea. Rather, the wholesale market should be opened in such a way as to really be able to import medicines from outside the scope of the Estonian wholesaler. This would certainly help to bring the price of medicines down a lot. Similarly, I believe that it would help to bring the price of medicines well below if over-the-counter medicines were allowed more to the retail market, so that they would not be sold only in pharmacies. But I ask very quickly: what is the position of the coalition now, whether the coalition as a whole supports or does not support your idea of moving forward with the free market? And are you and the Prime Minister going to a confrontation with your bill? What have you agreed within the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U24	I call on everyone, as I have already said, to proceed from the first reading of this draft by voting in favour of the completion of the first reading. It's like I heard you guys talking about us somehow restricting wholesale sales. On the contrary! On the contrary, we are opening up the market to everyone. Our draft contains precisely the point that everyone could also have the opportunity to buy in medicines from outside. I don't know what your problem is at all. At the Reform Party, I recommend finding my liberal market economy instincts again and supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U25	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I would like to bring here a parallel to the pension reform. In this case, the representative of the EKRE was here before us and was still very carefree when it came to pension reform, which is very seriously damaging to the Constitution. But now you're putting a lot of emphasis on constitutional aspects and talking about the requirements that will come. I'm asking you, do you have any factual information that claims against the state are coming? Or rather, the question is this: are you sure that these requirements will not come from the other side if your bill goes through?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U27	I will not address the issue of pension reform here, this is not the subject of today's agenda. But the Reform Party should, in principle, support all these proposals, because the Reform Party also supports the freedom to conduct a business and the right to property. But when it comes to whether pharmacists, I don't know, maybe they're missing something, you probably meant that, even though I don't see them losing anything, because who's already set up their own pharmacy, it can continue the same way and nothing is being taken away from pharmacists, it's basically that the Constitution speaks of the right to property, but the Constitution doesn't say anything about it if anyone has the hope of some future property. It has no constitutional protection, as the Constitution protects the specific property that already exists. As to whether an analysis of the alleged claims has been carried out, it has been said that these requirements will come. Let me give you an example. Suppose the state adopts a law that those named Aivar are no longer allowed to own real estate from any date, only those named Ennu may. What are you gonna do? What are your chances? One way to change your name is to change your name to Aivarist Ennus. Looks like everything's fine, you can still manage your property. The other option is that you want to sell your property to Ennu. But you see, Enn says I'm sorry, I don't have any money. In fact, he rubs his hands and thinks in his mind that it's nice and he can still get that date, so I can move in. And when that date is here, of course, you're gonna own this property, it's gonna be lovely for you, but it's important to you that somebody manages it, that's what you're gonna take care of, that's what you're gonna give your real estate to a person named Ennu under this law. But what do you do now? Well, you have every right to protest. You have suffered material damage and, of course, you will go to court and claim the damage from the person who caused the damage, i.e. the State. This is the process that is actually ahead of us. How much, we don't know, but it's coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U28	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U29	Thank you, dear waitress. Continuing your recommendations to the Reform Party, you could say that EKRE should support the promotion of medicines in Estonia. We know that, unlike what you are saying, medicines are sold cheaper in pharmacists, and it is not a question of how it looks, it is the result of a factual analysis. We pay tens of millions of euros more for medicines because our market is so concentrated and competition at wholesale level is not working. Mr Espenberg was in an awkward situation in the Committee on Social Affairs, had to talk about something he did not know about. And he defended the reversal of the pharmacy reform, but later he said, answering the 'Actual camera' question whether retail and wholesale should be separated so that it would come, it would be good for competition, quality and price. Could you tell me if Mr Espenberg didn't understand what was in your bill or if it was something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U30	I think that's what you need to talk to Mr. Espenberg alone, what he meant or how he understands it or why he said it like that. But when we talk about what the Soviets have done in history, where there are socks with their legislation, there is always a deficit and a coupon in the end. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] So let's wait.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U31	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U32	Thank you. Each government has a division of responsibilities and the current government is responsible for the health sector by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Tanel Swing, as you know, is against this bill of yours. My question is very simple: don't you trust the Tanel Swing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U33	We trust Tanel Kiike, and I myself have been with Tanel Kiig at the meetings where this reform of the pharmacy, or the amendment of the pharmaceutical law, has been discussed. We have had very fundamental discussions and, in fact, he understands very well that this crisis is coming. I would say that lately, he may not be very sure that the Pharmacy Reform is a good thing. Actually, he's looking for solutions. In this sense, I would not take this debate to this level at all; I still call on you all to work to ensure that access to medicines is not reduced from 1 April and that the pharmacy service does not deteriorate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U34	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There are dozens of members of the FDA. The letter you read seemed to be a single letter. I want to ask you this: who do you represent?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U36	I think I represent the people in the broadest sense, all people in fact, not indirectly, you too, don't you, who, when they get sick, have to use the pharmacy service? As regards the organisation that brings together pharmacists, as I mentioned, there are 1,000 active pharmacists in Estonia and, in fact, even 1400 pharmacists. All of them don't work at the pharmacy, they're in the pharmacists' register. But when we talk about a House of pharmacists who may have been the most vocal when talking about pharmaceutical reform, the number of members in the Chamber of pharmacists is 140.150. So the difference is actually ten times. This letter that I read brings together the pharmacists. More than 200 pharmacists have given it their support, so clearly more people than they belong to the House of pharmacists. Another major speaker has been the Pharmacy Association, which represents only 50 pharmacists. 150 plus 50, that's 200, isn't it? How do I say? I mean, we actually have to solve crises, not create more. We are now very clear that, from 1 April, one very well-functioning system will be disturbed. We can discuss here a subject that likes some kind of property that is different, but we are facing this crisis. Pharmacies go to jail, including land pharmacies go to jail. We shouldn't fight each other here, asking who someone's representing. Our party brought this bill here. I can say with absolute certainty that if there are any urban legends about who has received money from somewhere, who has more, who is less, then it is really the supervision of political parties, or what is that name, that there are no forbidden money movements, no forbidden donations, and no very visible donations. And they haven't said anything about it. In the same way, we can say that everyone here now really wants to push through the fact that, from 1 April, all pharmacies will belong to pharmacists, maybe they will then, it's just the same speculation that someone has received money from chain pharmacies, as if they were standing by for the pharmacists to get all the money. In fact, there is a lot of money in this market, and let's be honest, it's worth fighting for. Maybe they'll start getting donations from the pharmacists. I don't know. It's all speculation, and I wouldn't fall into any of these speculations here. When you asked who we stand for, I already said that we are actually standing up for the people who need to get their meds as soon as possible. I would even say that the existence of a near-home pharmacy, the comfort we now have, is almost a human right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U37	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, From the very first paragraph of the explanatory memorandum to the draft act, I read that the purpose of the draft is to amend the provisions introduced in 2014 and 2015 in the course of the amendment of the pharmaceutical law in such a way that the regulation does not restrict the ownership of the pharmacy and allows the availability of the pharmacy service. Five years ago, dozens of pharmacists began to comply with this law in good faith in the legal certainty of the state and invested in pharmacies. How do you look these law-abiding entrepreneurs and pharmacists in the eye if you now change the law so that their faith in the country is wavering? And another thing that bothers me: in response to one of our fellow Members, you threatened that the country could be expected to face serious claims for damages. Your party has also threatened the same thing on this very board in relation to the problems of wind energy: the country can be expected to face major claims for damages. Should the Estonian state really start to fear the oligarhe and their claims and should we adapt the Code...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U40	...by threats or by law-abiding pharmacists who have already built their own pharmacies and believe in the legal certainty of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U41	If you start from the beginning or from the first part of the question, those pharmacists who have created their own pharmacies will not be taken away from them. I mean, what do I tell them... For five years, only 40 pharmacist pharmacies were created. That's obviously not enough if we look at the ratio of how many pharmacies we have. In this sense, I think no one would mind that we have just as many pharmacies as there are. As for the threat, I don't understand where you see the threat. I'm not threatening. You used the word 'oligarh'. I think that absolutely every person, then he has more property or less property, has the right to go to court to protect his property rights. How many of these cases are coming, we don't know. But the fact is, they have that right. They have the constitutional right to use it and these requirements are likely to come. And then there's the question of who's responsible. Let's not create this mess! We have pharmacists now, we have chain pharmacies now, we have all kinds of mixed forms where several pharmacists own a pharmacy. As I read to you from this letter, they are actually in trouble because of this law after 1 April. How are they supposed to share property? Why are we making such a mess in the country? I don't understand it. However, I call for us to actually work here to resolve crises, not to create more crises.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U42	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U43	Thank you. I'll come to this mess first. I think, in fact, everyone understands that this confusion is caused by the situation that has arisen in the autumn. It has not been possible to understand what the position of the government coalition in relation to the reform of the pharmacy is. There have been several pieces of content. If you compare, for example, with the reform of the second pillar of pension, then it has been very clear: it has been announced that we will do this, and we are not interested in the opinions of any experts. There have been various drafts and different votes on this reform in this Chamber, and this has increased this uncertainty. But I'm gonna get it together real quick. You insist all the time that the aim is to prevent pharmacies from going to prison on 1 April. The availability of medicinal products must be ensured. Well, you certainly know that the Social Democrats have tabled a draft on what we are discussing on Wednesday and what exactly serves this purpose. I am asking you: do you support this bill and if you do not support it, why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U44	As far as I know, the Social Democrats have submitted two very drafts. Which one do you mean? I see that one bill is that hospitals and health care institutions could... Well, basically it's in our bill too. If you want, between the first reading and the second reading, we can add these drafts to one. We don't mind. The second draft had in mind an extension of the licences, didn't it? In principle, we are also open to this proposal between first and second readings. It is true that if this reform does not enter into force, there may still be situations where some kind of ownership or authorisation or whatever needs to be brought into line with the law. But yes, as far as this extension is concerned, for how long to do so, it is already a matter of negotiation. I think we can come back to this issue together.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U45	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, To a colleague's question about whom you stand up for, you answered that for the people. But the price policy is also to stand up for the people. And right now, one of the ideas of pharmaceutical reform is that the prices of medicines should fall. When my colleague Urmas asked if you had an overview of how the prices in pharmacists and chain pharmacies were, where more expensive, where cheaper, you said that you had been to the pharmacy in Tõnismäe and that you had not identified the price difference. At the same time, our good journalists have done quite a thorough research at the end of the year on several hundred pharmacies and have found that prices in pharmacists are cheaper than in chain pharmacies. The question to be clarified: on what did you base your claim that there was no price difference? And if this price difference is still in the favor of pharmacist pharmacies, how will your bill still stand for the people if it secures higher pharmaceutical prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U47	In the current situation, we have a lot of pharmacies on the market, and we all know that pharmacies are campaigning. They're made by pharmacists and chain pharmacies. The analysis of journalists may not be the truth of the last instance. If you go to a pharmacy where there's some kind of campaign, some kind of medication is cheaper there, then you'll have that input: you can write down that there are cheaper medicines. You're finally gonna get a sum, right? That's where the drugs are cheaper and there's more expensive. In this sense, the way someone shapes their pricing policy, let's say, is relatively flexibile. But it is a fact that the greater the competition, the lower the prices. And if we bring one more option to the pharmacy market and to the wholesaler market, that is the assumption that prices should go cheaper. But if, now, from April 1, a lot of pharmacies go to jail, I would argue that competition rather than such will disappear. You know, pharmacists are just like entrepreneurs. They also have to cover all costs, from the janitor to the accounting service, the pharmacists, all-all of them. In this sense, I do not understand this approach that one owner is like a robber and the other is an angel: that the chain pharmacy keeper is a robber and that the pharmacist's pharmacist is an angel. Well, you know very well that this is not the case. Anyone entering business is subject to a certain business logic. We cannot say with certainty that if this ideal landscape of yours comes to the ground and all pharmacies are pharmacists, then prices will be low. You can't really prove that, either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U48	Raimond Kaljulaid, is this a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U49	Mr President, Mr Vice-Chairman. I have a proposition for you. I also consulted my colleagues Riina Sikkut and Jevgeni Ossinovski in front of me. Perhaps, in the interests of the procedure, it would be good if the rapporteur had the opportunity to examine those drafts which are in the Riigikogu proceedings and which concern the same area, and certain nuances of the pharmaceutical market at all. Perhaps you could take a short break and give colleagues a chance to talk alone. I think it would make our discussion here today considerably more substantial and perhaps we could talk a little less about robbers and angels after that. Such a proposal to you as the President of the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U50	Thank you. I hope that the waitress will be very well informed about the draft that she is presenting. For all other drafts, it is up to each member of the Riigikogu to decide and to be responsible for how much he or she is aware of. So everything that is going on in this Chamber is fully in line with the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure, and there is no reason for us to take any break. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U51	Thank you! Of course, it's the director's discretion. Given that this is a very important debate, I would simply like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that the rapporteur has just begun his reply by saying that he does not understand the way the pharmaceutical market actually works and the nuances of its operation have been brought to the conclusion of the pharmacy reform. It's actually a serious problem, don't you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U52	Well, I don't have an overview of the state of play and knowledge about the pharmacy market for all members of the Riigikogu. And I am not given such competence and the right to make decisions on the basis of my subjective opinion to take breaks if I do not think one or the other member of the Riigikogu is familiar with the drafts. But you can always reply rhetorically and in the form of a question. After all, we have most of the questions in this Chamber, not questions, but opinions. So let's move on nicely to the hearing. Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U53	Thank you. The reform of the pharmacy has actually been in place for five years. The state, responsibly, gave all market players time to redefine their business model and, if necessary, to turn to the state for help and comply with the law. But today we are in a situation where certain players think that if they do nothing, if they do not comply with the law, the state will change everything back at the 11th hour, raise its hands up and tell us what remains of us if you do not comply with the law. Well, it doesn't work that way with a common citizen. Do you not think that if we are not really going to improve and adjust the pharmacy's market at the moment, this could certainly be done, for example, by a state wholesale pharmaceutical company and some other sensible things that are written in some drafts, if we just say that we are turning everything back, it will seriously harm us as a country? Are we even serious in this Chamber if people simply do not comply with the law, but we, as a country, do nothing to make it happen? Maybe we should protect ourselves a little more than the country, our citizens, who comply with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U54	Thank you. I think that we are protecting our citizens with this bill most because the pharmacies are not going to jail. With regard to whether the right decision was made five years ago or the wrong decision, the fact that we are discussing this matter here is obvious proof that it was probably not the right decision. Yes, there are examples that in some countries, even near here, everyone is a pharmacist's pharmacy and everything is very good. But I'm sorry, they've come to this situation evolutionaryly, not revolutionaryly. We have already had so-called cultural disruptions on the pharmacy market, and the situation we are in and are trying to solve here is not born in 2014 or 2015, is it not? Attempts to regulate this area in any way, after all, there has been a change before. Before 1996, we had all the pharmacists. Then, of course, the situation we were in as a country was quite different. But the market economy situation began to change very sharply. Why the market was opened up to a larger circle is in a way understandable, but as a completely ordinary consumer, I think most people did not get 2014/2015 either. In 2006, the country understood why it even needed to stick its fingers in it, to regulate something at all. After all, a common man actually wants to go to the pharmacy and get his medicine from there, that's what matters most from a human point of view. But, yeah, right now we're in a difficult situation. I think we're not turning back anything, but we're trying to sort this out in a way that doesn't put the pharmacies away. They say they're not going to jail. First of all, we don't know that. They probably will. A lot of people are going to jail. And one pharmacy is enough for one person who can't get his vital medicine in the usual way. And I've also asked the question, if anything fatal happens, who's responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U55	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U56	First of all, it is noted that historically there have been pharmacists in Estonia, with the exception of these intermediate 15 years. Now, you're asking why these pharmacies haven't developed in five years. Because chain pharmacies have spent court doors in Estonia and elsewhere in Europe, they have also visited Chancellors of Justice everywhere. They couldn't have happened. And, of course, they're taking out profits until the last minute. Now, pharmacies are being formed because there is no retreat. I also recall that if anyone makes a claim for damages, the pharmacist will do so: five years of legal expectation, and you will turn it back almost in the last month! And once again, the government's positions. Prime Minister Ratas said already in December that the Riigikogu has shaped its decision. And he has repeatedly said that we need to move on with the reform now; we should not change anything. We are consciously preventing the arrival of new pharmacies. Please, why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U57	This bill certainly does not prevent the arrival of new pharmacies. No one has ever stopped new pharmacies from coming. But this argument that pharmacists can also claim compensation if there is no reform is not true. Paragraph 32 of the Constitution protects property, but it does not protect the person's hope and ability to obtain property. So the hope of receiving any property after 1 April is not covered by this so-called property protection clause.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U58	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U59	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I specifically ask about this draft and the explanatory memorandum. The draft contains eight amendments, six of which are really vertical integration and the abolition of the requirement of a pharmacist's property. The first two changes are those that you also pointed out in your speech as very valuable: they could change the market, pharmacy providers and health care providers could also bring medicines to the country and as if there was competition in the wholesale market. Unfortunately, the explanatory memorandum focuses only on the six points concerning the authorisation of vertical integration and the withdrawal of the requirement of a pharmacist's property. Why are these first two important changes in the main part of the explanatory memorandum not discussed and, in explaining the effects of the law, the two points have not been addressed either? For what reason is the most important thing that you have pointed out in this bill unwritten in the explanatory memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U60	Thank you. I understand that you mean perhaps not even the first and the second, but also the third and fourth points. In fact, they all concern the expansion of the pharmaceutical market in the sense that the aim is to extend the right to import and export of medicinal products by granting pharmacies and hospitals the right to retail. Right now, that's all I'm saying is limited to the regulation of the import and export of goods subject to special authorization. Indeed, I agree that we have to adjust this slightly between the first and second readings, if you give it a chance. The way I say it, this kind of expansion of the law actually brings about a change in a lot of other laws that obviously will not come into being by 1 April. But I know that the Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing a new draft, which, in addition to the pharmaceutical law, also concerns the amendment of the Health Insurance Act, they are like together. In principle, it also addresses this whole issue. This bill has not yet reached the Riigikogu; it is only in the circle of coordination in ministries. But I really agree that we can take these first four points, how I say, out of focus and focus on the limitations of ownership.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U61	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U62	Thank you. I do not support such interference in ownership, either, but I do not support the points against the directive either. The Commission assured us that the first two points were incompatible with the directive. And I'm going to ask you this. What you call opening up the wholesale market or how you formulated it is not, in my opinion, included in this draft. This draft is technically very difficult to understand at all, as the explanatory memorandum and the draft do not coincide. But would you basically be willing to open up the wholesale market? In any case, the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs in the Social Affairs Committee said that this is really conceivable, although technically it is a little complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U63	Yes, thank you, good questioner! I was not present at this committee meeting, but I have been familiar with this protocol. You have said several times that you support the right to import medicines. You've said property restrictions must disappear. And you have actually said about pharmacists that most of them would like to have job security, security of supply, not that they are entrepreneurs. Most people don't want to be entrepreneurs, they're your words, all right? I would advise you that you should definitely know certain déjà vu when you read this bill and its explanatory statement. I mean, it should please you. And I also call on you to support this draft at first reading. Yeah, I know you're a big supporter of business freedom. I call on you, if you have any good proposals, to give your input to this bill. As far as compliance with European Union law is concerned, I have already said once that the proposals in the draft are all in line with European Union law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U64	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U65	Thank you. I listened with interest to the presentation and questions and answers. I didn't get all the answers, so I'm gonna ask you a few things again. You said the pharmacies were threatened with mass closure or something. Please tell me what pharmacies will be closed if the law remains in force as it stands and the date of entry into force remains unchanged. Secondly, I was unclear about your response when my colleague, Mart Võrguship, asked about what your analysis was based on, that prices in pharmacists are more expensive than in chain pharmacies. Maybe you can still refer to something more than your personal visits to a pharmacy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U66	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, I have not said that the prices at the pharmacist's pharmacy are more expensive. I said that in pharmacists, compared to other pharmacies, prices may not be cheaper. And the personal experience we all always have is what we may be able to rely on most firmly. But you had more questions. [[The hall will be specified.]] Yeah! This information, which pharmacies are going to close, is changing very quickly right now. It has been argued here that new pharmacies will not be established quickly, but ownership will be reorganized. I'm saying, first of all, it may not all be very legal, and second of all, it's kind of a Potemkin village... Once again, why, as a country, are we making laws that need to be mass-searched for ways to somehow bypass them or somehow sneak into harmony with them? I repeat: all surveys have shown that over 90% of people are actually very satisfied with the situation on the pharmacy market. It's like nobody's got any problems. In this sense, however, I am saying once again that I do not understand why we have to discuss all this topic here at the moment, why should pharmacies not simply work as they do, why do we have to reallocate good rental premises to someone as a Riigikogu, as a legislator in any way. I have never understood this, and I don't think most people understand what this discussion is all about. I need some medicine, I'm gonna go to the pharmacy and I'm gonna buy it and that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U67	Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U68	Thank you, Mr President. The waitress said she didn't understand. This time he said he doesn't understand why we're here. Could you tell the waitress that we are here today to discuss this bill because she and her colleagues started it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U69	Well, I guess we all know why we're here. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U70	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good honored waitress! People still have one problem: the prices of medicines are a little high. And a number of colleagues have already asked the same question that there is a feeling that prices are expensive, while several media publications was published in the evening newspaper Delfi, 'The Spectator' has shown that the mass effect does not work, that the prices of pharmacists may not be more expensive than those of wholesalers. My colleague Andres Sutt asked if, after your lessons, the price of a pharmacist's pharmacy is more expensive, there is some kind of study, some kind of analysis that it is. Indeed, there may be some price fluctuations because of some campaigns, but is there an analysis to suggest that there is a price difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U71	Well, let me put it this way to my colleague, Mr Ossinovski, although it was a procedural question, I would still say that we all understand very well why we are here. Our draft has, after all, come from the fact that we want to prevent the crisis that may occur in April. As far as the price of medicines in pharmacies is concerned, it is always the case that, under competitive conditions, the price of medicines is still affordable. And people actually vote with their feet, even by buying drugs. It's very nice when there are pharmacies on the market with a little cheaper prices. People go and buy from there, it's as simple as that. And that's the aspect that keeps prices normal and balanced. People must have a choice. And right now it's a choice. If we lose one form of ownership on the market by law, then according to any market logic, prices should increase, not fall, after a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U72	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I will start by saying that there is no choice in the rural area. In that sense, you don't give people anything more. But the current pharmaceutical reform is actually on the side of small businesses, i.e. pharmacists, giving them an opportunity. And it also gives people a chance to get medicines cheaper. Your draft, however, is essentially designed to perpetuate power similar to the monopoly of large pharmacy chains in order to maintain their large market share in pharmaceutical sales. You want to stop the process of redeploying the EUR 400 million pharmaceutical market among small businesses. So you prefer the business interests of Estonian small entrepreneurs, including rural entrepreneurs, instead of the big players. If I recall EKRE's previous rhetoric...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U74	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U75	... I don't think it matches that. My question to you is: what has inclined the EKRE to support large companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U76	Thank you for your question. The claims you made are simply your arguments and your opinion. We stand for no one's interests at all. On the contrary, I ask you: yes, you said correctly, 400 million is the turnover of the pharmacy market, why do you want to play it with another group? What's in it for you? But I repeat once again that most people in Estonia, 90% of people, are satisfied with the current pharmacy service. Why do we have to do anything? Why can't we just go on like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U77	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! To this, many questioners have already pointed out, either directly or indirectly, that the draft and the explanatory memorandum do not agree very well with each other. I'm even willing to believe, when I read this bill, that you really have written it. Or, as you have repeatedly said, 'this is our bill' means your bill, the draft of the EKRE, and what these others cherish are the formulas referring to themselves. But when it comes to the explanatory statement in particular, I know, and you know it hasn't been written by you either. And until then, we're on the same wavelength. But what I don't know is the one who wrote it. But you do. Why don't you tell us honestly who wrote the bill and the explanatory statement? And just in case, I remind you that lying is the biggest sin of a politician.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U79	Thank you-Thank you, good Valdo! As you know, the drafts are, you have certainly written them yourself or, at least, in this process, in collective creation. I do not know of any drafts that I would have seen that there is the content of the draft and the explanatory memorandum and, finally, a list of those who signed it. In this sense, this question is not relevant. This is collective creation and, of course, we have used all good advisers. And I'm glad you're endlessly accepting this bill, and I hope you'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U80	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! There is a little more than three weeks left before the reform enters into force, and that is why I will not go into the substance of this draft or reform at all. But what I am saying is that the credibility of the Riigikogu will not be affected if we are now going to change the reform that has already been put in place in the previous formation at the last moment. There was a five-year transition period in place in the previous composition and there were at least two major points: firstly, to allow the pharmacy market time to adapt, and secondly, it had to be a period during which good ideas could come. But they haven't come much. Your answers to Mr Sut, for example, who asked about the analyses, have not been convincing. I also note that the Ministry of Social Affairs actually has data that is quite different from what you have proposed in describing the current situation here. Given that you were present in this Chamber in the previous formation, but no drafts were tabled, I simply ask: is your draft not intended to torpedo the reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U82	Thank you. I'll remind you. I understand that it is as if you are supporting the process that began in 2014-2015 as if there had been something... Yes, you can make all kinds of laws by yourself and then start to see if they work or do not work in practical life. It has now become clear that this law does not actually work. I recall what the Reform Party really thought in 2018. Then it wasn't like I was saying, a turbulence situation where we are now. We will see that the law comes into force immediately, but the public is not ready for it and not all those involved are prepared for it. I'm asking why, in 2018, you suddenly decided that a nice and good thing like this one is supposed to be done around. As far as I know, I think this bill went through first reading, but, as I'm saying, there was no time for procedures, because there was a new election. We would certainly have supported it then, too. To tell us now that we are creating some sort of unnecessary confusion here and that we want to reverse something, but that is what you yourself wanted to do in June 2018. So in that sense, you certainly have nothing to blame for us now. On the contrary, you should fully support this undertaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U83	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U84	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, We live in a rule of law where market players have legitimate expectations of the law. The deadline for the entry into force of this law has been known for five years. There may not have been such a long period of time for market participants to adapt to the requirements of the law. At the same time, we do not trust the National Audit Office, the Chancellor of Justice or the Court. Has this attempt by politicians to change the law at the last minute not caused a precarious situation? If politicians had not intervened, market participants would have started adapting to this law and two retailers would already do so. So has this attempt by politicians at the last minute to change the law not caused this precarious situation and why do we not take the opportunity to make certain exceptions in rural areas when there is really a risk that some pharmacy will be closed down? Why are we not taking advantage of this opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U85	Thank you, good questioner! This last proposal is a good proposal, and we could certainly discuss this between the first and second readings. Yes, anything that concerns rural life and life in disunity may need regional policy decisions. Perhaps we could also look at matters relating to pharmacies in the regional policy dimension.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U86	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, If, in defending your draft, you state as an argument that a country can face serious claims for damages, that is not an argument. The Riigikogu cannot give in to such threats, even if they can be illustrated by an unwarranted closure to pharmacies for one hour. This is not the language in which the Riigikogu can allow itself to speak. And you said, in answering one of our fellow Members' questions, why shouldn't everyone stay the same? This pharmacy reform started in a push from the 2012 National Audit Office's audit, which said that medicines are expensive in Estonia and the choice is smaller than in other similar markets. One reason was that we were found to have individual wholesalers and strong vertical integration between wholesalers' pharmacies. Now, if you're saying go buy drugs, will you protect your people and those 40 law-abiding pharmacists or those individual wholesalers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U88	Certainly this reform and this law, which was approved in 2015 and which should now enter into force on 1 April, do not meet the objectives set. It has now become clear that it does not actually meet the objectives. All of this, which has now opened up in the pharmacy market, we know that even if the law came into force, this situation would not be resolved for businesses and people. This certainly would not solve the problem of vertical integration, which was actually the subject of the pharmacy reform in its time. You had such a long question, could you repeat any more points?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U89	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U90	Thank you. When you answered the question, you said such a sentence that there are doubts that the reformulation of pharmacies is not legal. What do you say that is based on? And can you give concrete examples?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U91	Yes, that is, when pharmacists drew attention to this in their letter, pharmacists are basically forced into tankers. They have to start keeping pharmacies simply to make it look legal and comply with the law that will apply on 1 April. Probably after it turns out there's something illegal, and then we're gonna have to deal with these things. I once again call for this: let us not create this situation at all!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U92	Annely Akkermann, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U93	The rapporteur asked me to repeat my question. I'd be happy to do that. I wanted to know if he was still representing a people who paid too much for drugs. Does it represent those 40 pharmacists who have acted legally and reasonably, or does it still defend the interests of individual wholesalers and retailers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U94	Thank you. That wasn't a procedural question. I have a suggestion for all the questioners and, Annely, you too, to start asking the question as soon as the time starts. You introduced your question for a minute, and then you hurriedly began to formulate the question. If you do the opposite, it's easier to understand the question. But now, good answer, if you like, please answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U95	Yes, we certainly represent the people. We want this bill to prevent pharmacies from going to prison, that access to medicines is reduced and that people no longer receive medicines from pharmacies in the usual way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U96	Valdo Randpere, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U97	Thank you. I have to protect my benchmate here. Your proverbs were very necessary, but they were completely inappropriate in this particular case, because the question was not that Akkermann asked a poorly formulated question, but that the rapporteur forgot the content of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U98	Thank you. Valdo, I appreciate you defending your benchmate, but I saw you helping him raise his hand to a procedural question. Thanks for that. Let's go: Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U99	Thank you. I will continue with Valdo Randper's question. Valdo asked who wrote the explanatory statement on this bill. I was present at this meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, where Urmas Espenberg, the initiator of the draft, tried to explain what was in this draft and for what reasons, and did not work out very well. And, of course, the question of who wrote this bill is very appropriate. You didn't answer that question. I'm trying to ask the same thing differently. We really call it the EKRE draft, you call it your own draft. But how has this developed, which may be the reason that we have seen here in the last month that representatives of the wholesale company Tamro have tried to speak to a lot of politicians? They say about the same bill, it's their bill. Can you tell me where they felt that way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U100	Thank you, good questioner! Like I said, it's collective creation. I don't know where anyone's got a feeling, I can't explain. But if you want to know by name, I can read to you by the initiators of the draft: Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaanus Karilaid, Urmas Espenberg, Urmas Reitelmann, Uno Kaskpeit, Kalle Grünthal, Kai Rimmel, Kert Kingo, Leo Kunnas, Riho Breivel, Tiit Kala, Anti Half-Amets, Henn Põlluaas, Merry Aart, Siim Pohlak, Paul Puustusmaa and Jaak Valge. So this is collective creation, and everyone who initiates this draft is basically also the author of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U101	Urmas Espenberg, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U102	Evgeny Ossinovski thinks all the other people are stupid, including me. I missed a rejoinder opportunity last time, but now I've got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U103	No, I interrupt you: you have missed nothing, you are completely awake, but the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure state that, if your name is mentioned in the negotiations, you are entitled to a reply. There is not yet a round of negotiations, but a round of questions for the rapporteur. And here, when someone's name is mentioned, a member of the Riigikogu has no right to reply. The names of many members of the Riigikogu have been mentioned here. Valdo Randpere, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U104	Thank you. That's my question. I was in the queue before, I was second or third from the top. But in view of the fact that I asked a previous procedural question, for which I received your credit, I was thrown out for last or even last in line. I had to check in again. I ask for the restoration of the former situation and for the elimination of the injustices that have arisen in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U105	Thank you. I don't see you in line right now. Please, get in line! [[V. Randpere says something about the hall.]] You see, the camera checked you in nicely. And finally, the word is always a big advantage, not a shortage. So let's keep going. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U106	Good manager! Good waitress! First of all, I would like to say that there are quite a few pharmacies per resident in Estonia, also compared to our neighbouring countries. So some pharmacies might go to jail. I do not believe that there are people in this Chamber and in the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Agency who want medicines to be less accessible to people. But they want good quality and a price that is more affordable. But you responded to Mr Kallas in such a way that I did not understand the answer. You said something like that, but it's not always legal. What exactly are you referring to? Do you accuse the owners of remote pharmacies of the Riigikogu of even possible fraud?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U107	I meant that not all of these reorganisations are, in that sense, legal, that when it comes to 1 April, they may not have completed this process. And then, indeed, the situation they have reached at that point in their restructuring could prove illegal. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U108	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U109	Thank you, Mr President, in good shape. Honourable waitress! Here's my question. What do you think of a country or a Riigikogu that behaves in a word-writing manner? There are very few laws that have been adopted for as long a transitional period as for this reform: for five years. Five years were not meant to fail to comply with this law during this period and to find a solution for achieving that the law did not have to be enforced. What is the message given to citizens about other laws adopted in the Riigikogu if we take this issue in this way? And the second question is: why have you and your group been left alone? Did you not offer your fellow coalition members the opportunity to join this bill or did they not agree with it? And there is also a request that you also pass on the position of the Prime Minister on this draft and the position of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U110	Thank you, good questioner! There were now three questions instead of one question. How will the chairman decide: do I answer all three or can I answer one?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U111	We still have good practice that all questions that fit in one minute are treated as different parts of one question. So please, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U112	So, again, three questions. I would say about what we are doing here in the Riigikogu, that we actually always have this choice, either to create more world problems or to produce solutions. We are now seeing that, despite the fact that for five years all parties had time to bring their activities into line with the law, they have not been able to do so. Now we see that this reform is actually a problem. And with our bill, we offer a solution. Once again, I repeat: this is the text of the first reading. If anyone has good suggestions on how we can solve this problem, then all proposals are welcome. As regards why it is only the EKRE draft, when I went to collect signatures on this bill, the Reform Party said a lot that they actually very much supported it in their hearts and promised to vote in favour. We'll see if they vote 'yes' or 'no', whether they vote 'no' to their conscience or something else. But what the Prime Minister thinks is that you have to ask him yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U113	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a little bit of fear in my ears. Today you have repeatedly said that after 1 April there will be a crisis and many pharmacies will be closed. My colleague Andres Sutt asked how many pharmacies would be closed. You didn't know the exact number, and you said it would change over time. But if there are no analyses of any possible closure, how can you simply, in your opinion, intimidate people by making these claims?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U115	Thank you, good colleague, good Kristina. What I am saying is not really intimidation, but rather a statement of fact. Once again, as a Riigikogu, we should not create more problems; we should solve them. When this discussion began in the autumn, it became clear to everyone that five years will be over in six months, but in fact nothing has happened. Yeah, some 40 pharmacies were created. When I was visited by the members of the Chamber of pharmacists, I asked them that we now have over 300 pharmacies and how much of them will go down, how much they will be able to replace. I asked how many entrepreneurs there are in the Chamber of pharmacists and how many pharmacies they are able to replace. It was said that 30 pharmacies and a little bit more, which is obviously insufficient. As far as analysis is concerned, yes, I told your colleague Andres Sut that this figure is variable in time. This is changing in time, but the fact is that by 2 April, not all the pharmacies that we have now and which serve our people have been able to bring themselves into line with this law. We're going to have a problem with that's the main thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U116	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U117	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, My question also concerns analysis. You stressed that a significant claim for damages could come to the country if the current reform agenda, the current law, remains in force. However, the Chancellor of Justice has said that the law that will enter into force on 1 April is not incompatible with the Constitution. If you say otherwise, it is not enough to feel here, there must be a legal analysis that says that the state could suffer considerable damage. Please tell me which analysis your claim is based on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U118	Thank you, good Katri! If you're talking about analysis, I'd say it's really 2014/2015. There was no analysis of the amendment of the pharmaceutical law in 2008. It is said here that there is no indication that these drafts are preceded by a sufficiently thorough analysis, including an in-depth analysis of whether these amendments are needed at all. Yet it was done, and the law was pushed through. And the Chancellor of Justice did not accept that law at the time. This opinion, which he has said in 2018, cannot be regarded as a recognition of the whole reform at that time. The fact that there was no analysis at the time and before the reform was carried out clearly indicates the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs has repeatedly promised to carry out an analysis. That analysis still doesn't exist. However, we are still, as if we are pushing and pushing forward this reform so that this law will enter into force on 1 April. We're talking about analysis. But what is the point of pushing this reform through, why are we pushing through a law that has not been analysed so far? The only analysis is what we see in practice is the criterion of truth, and which suggests that our whole pharmacy market is not really ready for this entry into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U119	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It is not so true that no analysis was carried out before this reform was approved. Both the opinions of the National Audit Office and the decisions of the Supreme Court existed. They can still be remembered and taken into account. But my question concerns something else. You said in answering the questions here that the pharmacy market works very well in Estonia and the studies show that 90% or even more people are satisfied with this and there is no need to change anything. I'm asking you, what are we doing here now? Why, then, would you like to change the medicine law if everything is fine and nothing needs to be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U121	Good colleague! If you turn it all back on your feet again, you will also understand that we do not need to change this situation in the sense that we will not allow this reform to enter into force. Yeah! If we allow the reform to take effect now, the situation will change and will change significantly in the direction of disadvantage. And that's not a threat, that's a fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U122	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U123	Thank you. Just in case, I'm telling you, this drug law is already in force. It's just that the transition period will be over on April 1. It's been five years. But I want to ask you about this. You are saying that there will be significant damage to the state, which comes from claims for damages against the state. Now, if I think about it, there are those who can claim damages against the state because they have made efforts to meet the conditions for pharmaceutical reform. These are pharmacists who have made investments to open a pharmacy, they are wholesalers who have transferred their pharmacies. And on the other side, it's just the two wholesalers who don't want to sell their pharmacies. On one side there is real damage caused by people who have taken steps and on the other there is hypothetical damage to which reference is made to threaten the Riigikogu. On what basis do you claim that there will be considerable damage if we do not reverse the reform of the pharmacy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U124	I don't understand part of your question. You said that pharmacists who have already set up pharmacies and brought them into compliance. What's the damage they're doing? They have entered the market and are active in the market. I don't understand why you're saying that they need to start claiming compensation for some kind of damage. However, if the number of pharmacies on the market is significantly reduced, those who shut down their pharmacies will suffer the most under competitive conditions. And, of course, they have the right to be sued. How big it's gonna be, it's gonna be in these trials. We cannot predict or analyze this, but these requirements will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U125	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U126	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I very much like that you have emphasised just a few times, and that is the fact that this remote control is spoken to the Estonian people. I think that everyone sitting in this Chamber wants to speak on behalf of the people too, because everyone who has been elected here and represents the people of Estonia has actually received this mandate from the people. However, in the case of a very large number of speeches, there is no definition of the number on whose behalf they speak. There is no doubt that the owners of chains are also part of the people, the owners, so that this rhetoric is appropriate in that sense. But I do not understand who is represented in Estonia by the Minister of Social Affairs and the Prime Minister. Who do they work for and speak for?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U127	Thank you, Helmen! I can speak on behalf of my constituents. I certainly cannot speak on behalf of the Prime Minister and on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U128	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U129	Thank you. Now I have to admit that I agree with Helle-Moonika a bit in that sense, that I also do not understand why we are discussing this matter here in the meantime. It sounds a little bit like you're trying to invent a time machine. This law has entered into force five years ago, and it will apply on 1 April. We're not talking about some law that's still not coming into force, and now we're going to make a little cosmetic change. You want to reverse a law that has come into force five years ago, but that some people do not want to comply with. This is not entirely appropriate for the rule of law. I'd rather ask the other way around. If the EKRE would now try to look to the future and think of the future instead of poking in the past. In fact, one thing that would certainly make medicines cheaper is that over-the-counter medicines are also available outside pharmacies. I personally support this idea. How do you feel about that? How does EKRE feel about the fact that after this law has been implemented on 1 April, we will pick up and see how to make medicines cheaper in Estonia by allowing over-the-counter medicines to be sold elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U130	Thank you, good Valdo! I'm glad you once again talked nicely over the nature of this whole process. Many of those who listen to us today, I have spoken to people, do not understand at all what this reform is about. They do not understand that there is a law that was passed a long time ago, and why now this mess since April 1st. In that sense, thank you for repeating it nicely and nicely again. And what you're proposing is actually practical. When we get through the draft amendment of this law today at first reading, here your proposal is very welcome. I have spoken to people, and indeed there are quite a number of people in rural areas in particular who think that over-the-counter headache tablets, aspirin, wound medicines and other essential medicines could also be available at shops and petrol stations. This is already a separate question of how we could formulate this law in such a way that these retailers, too, would like it or be in line with their actions. Make this a proposal as an amendment, we will take this into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U131	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U132	Thank you. I'm gonna use this minute to ask a number of questions. Question one. Vertical integration. Are you personally in favour of or against vertical integration? And related to this: how will this bill solve the issue of vertical integration? Question two. You mentioned that the reform does not fulfil its purpose. Please open and fill out this statement. The third question is about the chain pharmacy closure action, which was used by two major wholesalers who own chain pharmacies. How do you think it affected the pharmaceutical market, and how do you assess it? My last question concerns those damages claims that you claim will come immediately. In the business world, requirements are a normal thing. What do you think is the prospect of fulfilling these requirements, and when did you get new information that these requirements would come and be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U133	Thank you. As far as vertical integration is concerned, even if this Pharmacy Reform Act starts on 1 April, it will not lose vertical integration. This in real life, in real life, remains true, right, and that's what we all know. In this sense, we do not need to make laws that should change anything, but that do not actually fulfil their purpose. The next question: why is the reform of the pharmacy not fulfilling its purpose? The objective of falling prices is certainly not met, as competition is decreasing and prices are likely to increase in a context of low competition. Well, that is, of course, another argument, but I am talking about normal market logic: if there is little competition, prices will be high when there is more competition, then prices will be lower. It's just business logic, a business mechanism. So, third question? [[A. Sutt answers from the floor that the third question was about chain pharmacies.]] I'd say that for a chainaptation closure action. I basically understand why they did it. They did this, they carried out this action to show everyone what could happen after 1 or 2 April. A man goes outside the pharmacy. As the news showed, a lot of people didn't really know that we saw this section here, did we? Cross and cross and slice and slice. Regular people may not understand what it's for, they just want to go to the pharmacy. And they went to the pharmacy's door, and they asked, "What do you mean, the pharmacy is closed?" Where am I supposed to go now? Why can't I get my meds? So this action was, like, to show it. You say no normal person doing business would ever do anything like that. They have been accused of what will happen if they just take and clap all the pharmacies again one day for some reason, and we will be left without the pharmacy service. Nobody's gonna do that! No person doing business is going to shut down their business. He's gonna miss the day's service, isn't he? It wasn't meant to bully anyone. I'm sure no pharmacy's shutting down doors to bully anyone, to bully people. It was just so we could see what could happen if this law applied on 1 April. Any other questions? [[They say something in the hall.]] The perspective of the alleged claims is that if these claims come, right, they go to court first and the court decides how much someone's rights have been violated and what is the content of the claims that the court assigns to the State. Such claims will come, but we cannot foresee the number and amount of these claims today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U134	Ladies and gentlemen, We will try to ask one question in one minute at a time and the respondent will try to remember and answer that question. Otherwise, we will have four different questions coming from the hall, and this is not quite in line with the Rules of Procedure. But let's keep going. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U135	Thank you, Mr President. I sincerely thank you for seeing a unified whole in my previous three-part question. Thank you for this interpretation, but, as you can see, there is a risk of abuse. However, dear waitress, I fully understand why you did not state the position of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. I'm coming to help you. In particular, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has said that putting forward a new draft to change the reform of the pharmacy would only create confusion. And, as you can see, the members of the Centre Party in the Chamber fully support and use the free word recommended by the President, which he stated in yesterday's speech. And the same thing has been said by Helir-Valdor Seeder, Chairman of the Fatherland, sitting behind you. He has said during an interview that he does not consider the submission of a new draft to be rational. What's going on in the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U136	Everything is very well in the coalition, and we have presented this draft. Dear Riigikogu, all the Members you are here, and regardless of what someone has said or thought before: if you read this draft and explanatory memorandum, it is your decision whether or not you support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U137	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U138	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honorable defender of the bill! You have expressed your understanding that chain pharmacies' owners will bring damages to the state when this reform comes into force, and you will not understand why pharmacists who have made their investment in anticipation of the reform and created a new pharmacy should do so. I'm trying to increase your understanding a little bit. If the pharmacist has believed the word of the state and invested and created a new pharmacy, given that the situation on the pharmacy market will change significantly from 1 April 2020, do you not think that the state has treated this pharmacist unfairly when the reform is interrupted?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U139	Thank you. I would answer you again like life on my own. Indeed, if the pharmacist has established somewhere in the knowledge of the pharmacy that the state will make a law by which it will, after all its competitors, clear it up so that it can act alone in this environment, we should not really make such laws as a country. That's my point of view. I repeat once again: as our legislator, we should not be dealing with sharing good rental premises between someone or between them. Let us, however, leave it to the process of operating in a liberal market economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U140	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U141	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I get the impression that in the next five years, the subject of the pharmacy should not be touched at all. At the same time, I think that this should bring the government coalition out again in the near future in order to bring down real prices with the help of the government. For this, I believe it is necessary to open the market so that pharmacists should not only buy medicines from Estonian wholesale companies, but could also bring them from Latvia, Lithuania and elsewhere. What prevents the government from coming out with such a bill and going forward with it? I think we've only been halfway there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U142	Thank you. I have already told someone, in answer, that there is, in fact, a bill in the government that deals with these issues. And, of course, what we might have against further opening up the market, which would increase competition, bring down prices and expand the range. That would ultimately be of benefit to all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U143	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U144	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! You nodded Valdo Randpere to sell over-the-counter drugs at the grocery store. But you do know that not all non-prescription medicines can be used together with all prescription medicines. I ask: who is responsible, who is in charge, and who is questioning the person who is taking the medicine, and can he take aspirin next to it? Who is responsible if you so kindly promise that we'll put the hardware store, the grocery store, all over the store, and there's no one who knows anything about them, in other words, the pharmacist?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U145	Thank you, good questioner! I don't know that I would have promised anything so generously here. And as I also replied to my colleague Valdo Randpere: this is just a proposal that we can discuss.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U146	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U147	Thank you, dear waitress. There was talk about the closing action of chain pharmacies and the fact that it was a very unpleasant surprise for consumers who came to the door and knew nothing about it. I wonder if it can be taken as an experience in some ways. What can the current government and the Ministry of Social Affairs learn from this action? Do you think this is something that can be prevented proactively in the event of a change, or preemptively, well, everything better arranged?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U148	Thank you, good questioner! I will answer very briefly what could be learned from this. Learning may be that let us not interfere in a normal market economy situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U149	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U150	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have to say that I had doubts before December that suddenly this law, which has been adopted five years ago, should be amended somehow. I really analyzed the situation, listened to the opinions, but after this mass action, which meant closing the doors without prior notice, it seemed that this provocation should not go along. Now you explained by answering us that you understand them. I also understand why they behaved in this way: there are big money and business involved. But I don't understand how patients could do that. We have seen that a monopoly company can create a situation where a vital service and medicines are definitely missing. Do you think that any other sector, if it considers that its requirements must be met, can have such an action? Is it wise to do such a thing in any area in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U151	Thank you, good Helmen! Yeah, I also think that we can't imagine the situation that, just in a good way, without any warning, the pharmacies are closing the doors at some point. But if you're talking about any sector, we've all been sitting at airports on our bags, because there's just a strike that makes some demands, and you can't get home, you can't go where you need to go. That's what they do, whether we call them strike or action. Yes, it has also been called a strike, but it was not a strike in the classic sense that it was not organised to protect workers' rights. At the same time, has anyone thought about the employees of these pharmacies? No matter how many pharmacies go down, no matter how many employees there are, who lose their jobs, sometimes in this sense we can count this action as an attempt to protect them. But no matter what the fact is, it was just an act, and it wasn't long enough to put anyone at risk. It's just that they were right to do it and they did it. In principle, we all understood that they wanted to show what situation we might have on 2 April when this reform came into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U152	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I happened to be listening to an interview with the leadingwoman of the family doctor's group, Le Vallikov, at Vikerraadio, where the bill you submitted was also discussed. Family doctors are extremely critical of this bill. Why do you think that family doctors do not support a liberal market economy in the pharmacy market?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U154	I can't answer that question from a family doctor's point of view. Well, maybe the family doctors have some sort of vision. I'm sure all market participants have something to say about that, that's their opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U155	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U156	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In your report, you said we had a massive closure of pharmacies ahead of us. You said that many times. In your answers, you also repeatedly refer to the fact that pharmacies are necessarily closed. Where do you come from with such intimacy that the pharmacies will be closed? I do not believe that any entrepreneur who currently owns a pharmacy can act so foolishly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U157	We don't want to call anybody stupid here. But I do know that in my constituency, Haapsalu, there will be a pharmacy left. I think the people of Haapsalu deserve better than the fact that instead of the pharmacies they are now accustomed to, there is still one pharmacy. This is probably not what we all want and what the people of Haapsalu want. Unfortunately, that is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U158	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U159	Thank you, good vice chairman. Honourable waitress! You said in your speech that people want to go to the pharmacy and just buy out their medications. They may not know what's going on right now. I agree with you very much. Members of the Riigikogu are expected to be professional. You're a member of the government department. What's going on? Why don't you use the "officials' luggage" at your disposal? You will present a draft whose points do not comply with European Union directives. Do you really not want us to have the opportunity to support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U160	I have repeatedly told you that the proposals in the draft are in line with European Union law. It's in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U161	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U162	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have a question about the mass closure of pharmacies. Who do you think arranged this, entrepreneurs or employees?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U163	I don't have any information on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U164	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U165	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Let's continue on the same subject, however. I'm not very convinced of what you're saying. Have you also consulted with your coalition partner, specifically Minister for Social Affairs Tanel Kiige, what his position is, do these points correspond to the directives of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U166	Yeah, I've been consulting. We have a consensus on whether or not these points comply with the directives.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U167	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Following today's debate, it seems that this issue has gone completely wrong. I would therefore proceed from the point of view of my good colleague's lawyer, Andres Saue, when things got really messed up in court proceedings. The principle is to go to the roots. In my opinion, the aim should be that the pharmacy service, as such, should be available to everyone. Everything else is secondary. As far as ownership is concerned, it doesn't matter who owns the pharmacy. The owner of the airline doesn't have to be able to fly, it's the airmen. And thirdly, I propose this line of reasoning. There has been talk here about legal certainty and legitimate expectations. Let me remind you that the law on the basis of property reform has been amended at least 50 times. How do you judge my reasoning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U169	Thank you, good Kalle! I appreciate that line of thought. That's right!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U170	Andrus Seed, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U171	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have a brief question, I believe you know that answer. Is this bill supported by Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U172	Thank you, good questioner! We'll see about that. I am here primarily to ask for the support of the Riigikogu on this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U173	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Now I would like to ask the co-rapporteur, Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U174	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed at three sessions the draft law on the amendment of the medicine law initiated by the ambassadors of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and an ambassador of one of the Central Party. At the first meeting of the Commission, the draft was briefed by the initiators, and representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Agency had also been invited. On 13 February, when we discussed this, the representatives of the Agency who were present explained that the draft dealt with two main areas. One concerns the ownership of the pharmacy and the other concerns the rights to retail and buy-in of medicinal products in general. According to the Agency, granting hospitals and pharmacies the right to purchase medicinal products directly from the manufacturer would require a broader analysis. The granting of retail rights is a domestic issue that each country can decide for itself in the European Union. However, the wholesale, introduction and marketing of medicinal products are more regulated in Europe and the granting of rights in this form to retail pharmacies would require more in-depth analysis. Some questions were also asked at this very sitting. It was examined that since the draft contains two large blocks of principle, why the explanatory memorandum does not include any longer the right to buy-in medicines from abroad. The representative of the initiator of the draft act said that this is a relatively complex and more recent issue, which certainly requires much more analysis. And all of this can be supplemented between the first reading and the second reading. The same question was also examined in the debate in this Chamber today: whether the part of the draft which concerns the right of retail pharmacies to purchase medicines directly from manufacturers could be contrary to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and how the directive regulates the buying-in of medicines for hospitals and the granting of retail rights. The representative of the Agency explained that this directive, which mainly regulates the pharmaceutical sector as a whole in the European Union and also in Estonia, lays down how medicinal products can be authorised in the Member States and which medicinal products can be sold in these countries. Therefore, if we give everyone the right to bring something to the country, then only those medicines that have a marketing authorisation granted in Estonia and in the European Union as a whole may be sold. According to the Agency, this draft is not directly contrary to the Directive, but there are places in the draft which require a little more extensive analysis. It also asked why the initiator wishes to abolish the existing regulation a few months before the law came into force and not to contribute to its final implementation. The initiator of the draft act pointed out a very clear position, saying that the existing draft can always be improved, but they consider that it is a direct contradiction with the current constitution. It was also asked whether the current situation, in which Parliament has not been able to make final decisions, could be the reason for the lack of sufficient number of pharmacies meeting the new requirements on the market. The initiator replied that it was natural for different market participants to use their rights and opportunities differently. There are those who immediately started to bring ownership into line with the law when the law was passed, and there are market participants who have not done so to this day. There are certainly different reasons. A member of the Commission examined the position of the Ministry of Social Affairs with regard to the law in force. As the Ministry was very critical in 2014, it was added that the Competition Authority has also repeatedly stressed that such regulation does not lead to an improvement in market competition. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs gave it a brief explanation, saying that their criticisms in 2014 were directed primarily at the draft, which was number 615. The Government's opinion was critical because the definition of a wholesaler in the original version was too narrow and would have led to an unequal market situation in the interpretation of the regulation, but this draft was clarified during the procedure. Another question was asked about the draft explanatory memorandum, which refers to a specific decision of the European Court of Human Rights. It was pointed out that such a solution and the content of the draft were not compatible. The initiator of the draft act explained that this solution was introduced in the explanatory memorandum in order to point out that the licence was also a property and that its termination was an infringement of ownership. The Social Affairs Committee also discussed this draft on 17 February. At this meeting, three consensual decisions were adopted: to appoint Mr Mölder, President of the Commission, as rapporteur for the Commission, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by today, 25 February and, if the first reading is closed, to set the deadline for amendments at 14 a.m. on 4 March. On 20 February, the Committee on Social Affairs decided by vote that the commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U175	Thank you. Questions. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U176	Thank you. Good waitress! The Pharmacy Reform, which has entered into force and is about to be implemented, was decided more than four years ago. The governments of George Ratas have been in office for over three years. Thus, Jüri Ratas and its governments have had three and more years to deal with it, to talk to market participants if, at any moment, it was felt that this reform would somehow jeopardise the availability of the pharmacy service. They had time, I stress, to deal with it for over three years. Today we have a bill in the hall that's gonna blow it pretty much off. My question to you is: what is the government's position now, which is the position of the Minister for Social Affairs and, of course, your own position, if at the last moment, if there is a little more than a month left, you are going to completely turn this reform upside down?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U177	Thank you for that question. In the Commission, we did not specifically ask for the opinion of one person or one person in particular. But I dare so much to answer your very broad-based question that the government's position on this draft is currently lacking.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U178	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U179	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! I understand that you are in an extremely difficult situation: you have three drafts at the same time in the Committee on Social Affairs. I refer to the President's idea, which he used in his speech yesterday, that a member of the Riigikogu is completely free in his decisions, he should not be guided by certain side effects. As a result, I have a question for you: which of the three drafts you have in the proceedings belongs to your heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U180	Thank you for that question. Since I am a Commission waitress, I should not explain my opinion here very long and thoroughly. I will only say so much that I have also expressed strong positions in public. I think they'll be found quickly. And I have also said that one of these three drafts is sympathetic to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U181	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U182	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! Mr Helme has just said that he does not agree with the Agency, that buying directly from abroad by pharmacies is contrary to the European Union Directive or that at least consistency is questionable. Mr Helme said that the explanatory memorandum set out the reasons why they considered the proposals to be compatible with European Union law. And here's my question: could you confirm to the large hall that the effects of buying from abroad and compliance with European Union law have not really been assessed in the explanatory memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U183	Thank you, indeed, in the Commission these issues were under discussion. First of all, as far as the explanatory statement is concerned, I explained that in my report. With regard to the conflict with the directive, once again: the Agency said very clearly: in this form, this draft does not conflict with the directive. But he admitted that, indeed, granting very broad-based rights to retail pharmacies that could start buying in directly from the manufacturer would require a longer and more in-depth analysis. I also think that a longer and more thorough analysis of this point would really be useful.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U184	Erkki Keldo, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U185	Thank you, good waitress. I will specify my first question, and I would still be waiting for an answer. The central party government has ruled our country for over three years, led by Jüri Ratas. You're the representative of the Centre Party on the remote today. For three years, the government has not signalled, or at least I have not seen these signs of having any concerns with the entry into force of the pharmaceutical reform. And now, one and a half months before the deadline, you will be on the board and you will say that you have a bill that will turn this reform upside down. Hence my question: what is the Central Party's position on the reform of the pharmacy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U186	Thank you. I'm here on the remote because I'm a waitress from the Social Affairs Committee in the big hall. In answer to this question, however, I say that if you take these three years, very different groups have tabled different drafts. However, based on two basic principles, the non-implementation of the ban on vertical integration and the withdrawal of the requirement for pharmacist property, these drafts have been presented by opposition parties and coalition parties. So that's the kind of debate that's been going on. And if Parliament wants to hold this debate, it is right. And I think it's very right that this debate is being held in this big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U187	Urve Tiidus, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U188	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. My question is a follow-up to Erkki Keldo's question. Your party is composed of Tanel Kiik, Minister for Pharmacy Reform, who has caught my eye as a capable young politician. Have you at least discussed this with him? I am thinking of the same draft, or even the process that is currently taking place: just before the day when the reform of the pharmacy enters into force, so many different drafts have been tabled to stop it in any way, delay it, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U189	Thank you. I say once again what the Commission did say: there is no government position on this particular draft, and it can also be extended in such a way that I do not know what the position of a particular minister is in relation to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U190	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions, but I have a procedural question. You said in your report that the deadline for amendments was 14:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U192	March 4th.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U193	Yeah, we say 12 here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U194	Not 12:00?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U195	Yeah, I'm sorry, then it was my mistake! Wait a minute, I... If you say it's 12:00, it's 12:00. Maybe my tongue slipped, and I said 14:00. The deadline for amendments is Wednesday at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U196	Okay, thanks. The round of questions and answers is closed, and now there is an opportunity to open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U197	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Although my colleague from the Socialist Party said that we do not share any of this, it is still suggested that the first reading of this draft be stopped, the reading of the two drafts is not recommended. But to the point! I understand the murmuring that the subject of pharmaceutical reform has been taken up again, but I am absolutely certain, one hundred percent convinced that this is a good and right decision. And I stand before you as a colleague, not as an enemy and an adversary, because this matter concerns all of us. I do not represent any party here, neither pharmacists nor large chains, I only represent national conservatives and my own views, which are three central definitions: justice, justice and good practice in the market economy. I am convinced that this solution, which should enter into force on 1 April, is built on a legal cull, conjecture and miscalculation and will not last long. Twice this erroneous solution has been tried to stop, but it has not succeeded. But three is, as they say, a court order. The main objective of our draft is to mitigate the risks that this would entail. Currently, 308 pharmacies do not meet the requirements, 27000 people may be left without service and 100000 people should go to a pharmacy that is further away. In addition, several hundred pharmacists and pharmacists may be unemployed. The most important aim of the draft is to remove the legal barriers that have been made to the Constitution of Estonia and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, particularly those that are directed against property. The private operator will be forced to give up its ownership virtually on 1 April. I would remind you that, as has already been mentioned in the Austrian case, the authorisations of pharmacies are property, and they are time-barred. So if you take them off, it's another violation. The amendments provided for in the Pharmaceutical Act have not found the fairest possible balance between the interests of the parties and the measures taken are disproportionate. Any state intervention could destroy a well-functioning system, and we fear that it will happen now. Of course, as my colleague mentioned here, it would be good if wholesale and retail sales were separated, but too many restrictions have been imposed. They should be dealt with, and I hope that others will also table new amendments. The current business model, and this has also been said by the Competition Board, is, however, competitive. Wholesale distributors compete with each other and retailers are more of a distribution point. Business models could be further discussed, but I will give just one example of telecommunications. The Estonian Telephone had to put its infrastructure at the disposal of other operators and this created competition. But so far, all communications operators have their own retail chains, where they sell subscription contracts, as well as accessories, cell phones, etc. So this kind of competition model. It has been stressed that the pharmacy service is not a business but a part of the health care service. Theoretically, you can agree with this, but in practice, and this has also been pointed out by the Competition Authority that this is a good thing - the pharmacy service is separated from medicine and doctors. Otherwise, all doctors would start writing out recipes that would be useful to those who are familiar with them and would be corrupt. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U198	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U199	The analysis of 2018 by the Chancellor of Justice also remained on the surface, and he has also recognised this later. In that analysis, he said that, in theory, this law, or this amendment of law, would be constitutional if it were implemented legally and on the basis of the necessary analyses and on the basis of specific plans. I'm afraid that hasn't happened. In his reply to Leon Jankelevich, Madise stated that the pharmacist's office is a state regulated profession, but there is no reason to believe that a pharmacist working at a pharmacy or leading it would disregard professional skills and ethics in his work. Thus, the pharmacist does not necessarily have to be the owner of a pharmacy, so the pharmacy owner and the pharmacist's invitation are not linked. That is the position of the Chancellor of Justice. And thirdly, we are seriously trying to create a perspective for opening up the wholesale market, although I admit that there are serious regulatory obstacles. We have also been accused of taking action against the land pharmacies. Well, that's completely absurd. So far, the pharmacies in the smaller regions have mostly been run by large chains, at the expense of their profits. And § 311 of the Pharmaceutical Act imposes a requirement of 10 + 1: if you have at least 10 profitable pharmacies, you must open one in rural areas. And this requirement could be further increased. However, if the land pharmacies are left alone, they may only be able to ask for help from the state or local government, but I do not believe that there is any help from it because there is no money available. Why not let the private sector do this? I welcome the decisions taken by the Committee on Social Affairs at its meetings on 17 and 20 February. This draft should be discussed further. I hope that we can move forward quickly so that this harmful law, which destroys free enterprise, can get the brake. It's not appropriate to fix the clock with an axe. It's just that the clock breaks. I call for this bill to be supported, the restrictions on ownership must be abolished.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U200	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Three more minutes, eight more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U201	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with a technical remark. Students are still told that by defending the final thesis well, it is possible to increase the grade of weaker work, but with poor protection, you can get a lower grade than you could get from a purely paper reading to a grade. Protecting the bill in this Chamber is actually the same. For example, I was very surprised by what we experienced in the hall when we discussed the law of weapons. In my opinion, Urve Tiidus has not been in the Defence Forces; he is neither a defence ally nor a hunter as far as I know. Nevertheless, he was able to respond to the experts who had this experience and asked about the length of the tray and other matters. He was able to answer, he was able to explain what is the purpose of the draft, what is being changed, for whom is being changed and how it all happens. At the same time, we are seeing quite different examples in this Chamber. In December, when we discussed the same reversal of the reform of the pharmacy, there was often a statement from the draft rapporteurs that this did not express very precisely the will of the initiators and that much had to be changed between the first reading and the second reading. And today is exactly the same. The rapporteur reached the deficit and the coupons and all other issues. And I understood from the answers that four out of the eight points in the draft will go out anyway, because it is not realistic to enforce them before 1 April. There are a lot of proposals from the floor, including welcomes and practical ones, which should be introduced before the second reading. Well, why are we discussing a draft, where the objective is not clear, it is not clear what is going to be changed, for whom and how will it be changed and which points are going in exactly? In addition, of course, the explanatory memorandum does not explain the points that are set out in the draft. We really shouldn't be discussing these things in this hall. Now to the contents. Major General Martin Herem, Commander of the Defence Forces, said in his speech yesterday: "We often behave selfishly, sometimes even repulsively, in the light of our personal interest or based on the uniqueness of our knowledge. But as a counterweight to the nation, we are still ready to defend our country if necessary. " Very beautiful! After all, there are many different interests and desires in health care and the pharmacy market. And just as we heard in the presentation, there are a lot of different personal experiences, some positive, some negative. And we tend to conceive of our experience somehow and to consider it to be the right thing to do. As a person, we can do this, but as legislators in this Chamber, our duty is quite different. The Constitution also allows exceptions for the protection of health. And not only in business, but even in the area of privacy and freedom of expression, exceptions can be made to protect public health. Just as, for the protection of the state, we are prepared to give up our interests and knowledge as the only right and to protect our country as a nation, so, as legislators, we must put our interests and our personal experience aside and take the patient's side to protect public health. Three months ago, in this Chamber, discussing this bill, this debate could have been different, and more than 300 pharmacies were intimidated by the closure of the pharmacy from 1 April, and it was questioned whether the patient was paying too much, whether the prices of our medicines were so high. But it is now clear: as more information comes, things change. It is clear that pharmacy owners have said that 300 pharmacies will not be closed in April. We don't have the point of throwing that statement back and forth in this Chamber if that doesn't happen. The press has also done very good work and compared different prices from different sources: online pharmacies, chain pharmacies, pharmacist pharmacies, hospital prices for medicines. And everyone has come to the same conclusion: our patients pay too much. And we are not talking about small sums, we are talking about a market of more than 400 million and tens of millions of euros, which patients are paying more. And I must stress, as I have done in my speeches before: these are people who have chronic diseases, they are elderly, they are people on low incomes who pay tens of millions more each year. We have to stand up for them. There is no proper way to organise the pharmacy market. But the solution, whatever it is, must be in the interests of the people. There's been a lot of "Competition" here today. And competition works in many areas. Of course, there is no need to restrict competition for nothing. At the same time, we need to understand that buying medicines is not about making this type of choice, so either you buy Jubilee or oatmeal cookies, depending on the price or what your preferences are. You can't trade an anticoagulant for a statin because it's on sale today. It is in your health's interest to still take the medicine that has been prescribed for you and that matches your diagnosis. The prices of medicines and the market as a whole are already very regulated. If we were to say that we are releasing prices, let prices develop as a result of competition, in some cases there may be one producer or one seller or importer, and that it will buy who can, then it would not really be a society in which we would like to live. The pharmaceutical market is regulated for a reason: so that people can get the help they need for their health and be able to obtain medicines. Such an important and growing market cannot be organised solely on the basis of commercial interests. Today's draft 139 is a pretty good example of how things should not be in Estonia: an unexpected change of scenery is being made in an earlier decision, the drafters are not familiar with the draft, the minister in charge of the subject disagrees with the proposed solution. In order to enforce any reform, it is actually important for the parties repeatedly mentioned in this Chamber to have a very important assurance that the executive power will exercise the will of the legislator. Otherwise, it is not realistic for the parties to make costs or changes so that the reform can enter into force. We must give the assurance that the reform that has been decided will actually be implemented as planned. Then the market can start to restructure. I thank you for listening and, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I propose to reject the draft 139 at first reading. I believe all colleagues agree in the Chamber. This is, on the one hand, a question of parliamentary dignity and, on the other hand, a matter of standing up for patients' interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U202	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U203	Three more minutes, please. Thank you. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today we are discussing the abolition of the reform of the pharmacy. We are discussing this again, the last time we discussed it in December. In December, the Riigikogu made it very clear that the reform of the pharmacy should proceed. After that, a demonstration of the power of wholesalers took place: their own retail pharmacies were shut down to show how much power they actually have on the market. The desire to abolish the reform of the pharmacy just a few weeks before its implementation shows how much trouble there is in the government. The Minister of Social Affairs and the Prime Minister have made it clear that the reform of the pharmacy should not be reversed in the Riigikogu, but, as you can see, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Social Affairs do not pay the floor in the government. Urmas Espenberg said in his speech that they were going to break up a well-functioning system. I'm asking: a well-functioning system for who? The reform of the pharmacy was undertaken because wholesalers, especially two large wholesalers, have too much influence and therefore the people of Estonia pay more for medicines. So-called vertical integration takes place. The pharmacist's claim was written into the law with the aim of creating more competition in the retail market and ensuring affordable access to medicines for all people in Estonia. The position of the Reform Party is that we should not have to abolish the reform of the pharmacy. If the Riigikogu leaves this law in the process and does not reject it at first reading today, even with the swiftest procedure, it will be a week and a half between the adoption and the entry into force of the law. A week and a half! The same was the case for five years for the changeover in connection with the reform of the pharmacy: five years had time to take steps to move forward. The country cannot prepare one reform for five years and say in the last week before the end of this transition period that we are still not doing so. The state can't be a word-breaker. The current pharmaceutical reform is not ideal. There are certainly a number of aspects that are problematic, but it makes no sense to abolish the entire reform at the last minute before the end of the transition period of five years. There are not many laws that have been given such a long transitional period to enter into force. If there are constant signals from members of the Riigikogu that the law will still be amended before the transition period ends, it is a self-fulfilling prediction. Wholesalers do not take their own steps, hoping that the law will still be amended. Such signals come from the Riigikogu and, on the other hand, these same wholesalers threaten the Riigikogu that the law should be amended because, otherwise, pharmacies will go to prison. So it's actually a self-fulfilling prophecy because they haven't taken these steps. The initiators of the draft act say that if the five-year transitional period ends as foreseen by the legislator, there will be significant damage to the state. It is referred to as a threat from two major wholesalers that they are claiming damages against the State. However, if this law is actually amended before the end of the transitional period, those pharmacists who have made investments in order to establish their own pharmacy, as well as those wholesalers or any owners of pharmacies who have taken steps in accordance with the law to switch to the arrangements provided for in the Pharmacy Reform, will be able to lodge claims for damages. By the way, in court, it is much easier to prove the damage suffered by the latter than the hypothetical damage suffered by wholesalers who have not complied with the law. The Minister of Social Affairs has confirmed that the country is ready for the entry into force of the Pharmacy Reform and that the issues are known. Both pharmacy owners and the Ministry of Social Affairs have had five years to prepare for the reform's entry into force. Today's situation doesn't come as a surprise to anyone, it's been known for a long time. Therefore, a large number of pharmacies should not be closed down. However, if it turns out that the country itself is not sufficiently prepared for the reform, then we must honestly look in the mirror and admit that the Centre Party that has been in power for the last four years and Jüri Ratas as Prime Minister have done its job poorly, and it is time to take political responsibility for this. The Riigikogu could allow the reform of the pharmacy to enter into force, see how the transition takes place, and then, if these problems, which are spoken of, really arise, the Riigikogu can intervene again, on the basis of the actual situation, not hypothetical threats, or of someone's gut feeling, to which answers from this remote control have been referred. You can then consider the needs of content and not the fears of lobbyists. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Please, let us be statesmanly and solve the problems of the pharmacy market in a balanced way and not as a campaign at the 13th hour! The Reform Party supports the rejection of the draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U204	Thank you. Urmas Espenberg is entitled to reply because his name was mentioned in the speech. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U205	There really was my name here and it was said that since five years ago the law has already been passed, there is nothing to be done and why you are going to change it here at the last minute. If that's an argument, it's a very weak argument. That is what your party partner, Jürgen Ligi, has said. So I'm still suggesting that this law-- this stupid law-- fail.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U206	Kaja Kallas, also the line. And then that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U207	Yes, I referred to Mr Espenberg saying that a well-functioning system should not be broken. And the question was, for whom this system has been well-functioning. He's been well-functioning for the big wholesalers. But, of course, I support Mr Espenberg's view that this law, 'this stupid law', as he said, should be rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-25_U208	Thank you. The lines have now also been said, and we must take a stand on this proposed bill. We have a commission proposal for a draft... [[In the diner.]] Shh! We have the commission's proposal to finish the first reading and we have the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal: 'The Group of the Social Democratic Party proposes that the members of the Riigikogu, Helle-Moonika Helme, Jaanus Karilaiu, Urmas Espenberg, Urmas Reitelmann, Uno Kaskpeiti, Kalle Grünthal, Kai Rimmel, Kert Kingo, Jaak Valge, Leo Kunnase, Paul Puustusmaa, Riho Breiveli, Tiit Kala, Anti Polandmets, Merry Aarti, Siim Pohlaku and Henn Põlluaasa be rejected at first reading. " Now, first, let us invite the people to the hall. Let's still give time for the gathering. Okay, it's been two minutes. I am voting on the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to reject the draft law amending the medicine law at first reading 139. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the rejection, against 42. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] The bill has fallen out of procedure. Our trial today is over. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 12.42 p.m.
