ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Honourable members of the government! Let's start our Wednesday briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. 29 members of the Riigikogu are present, 72 are missing. The following members of the Government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. As usual, the members of the previously registered Riigikogu can first ask the question. They will also have the opportunity to ask an additional question, and then there will be one question from the floor. There are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U2	First, Kaja Kallas asks and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! As we know, the Political Financing Monitoring Commission is currently dealing with two cases relating to the Centre Party. One deals with the donation of EUR 50000 at the beginning of this year and the other is a claim of EUR 1.2 million against the Centre Party. As Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, do you not consider it morally right that you will not lose the Committee on Financing of Political Parties until your own party claims or disputes have been resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for that question. First of all, I think there is a lot of misinformation in the air on the issue of ERJK's disappearance. First of all, this is a draft initiated by the Riigikogu. Secondly, I think this change will increase the level of supervision of political party funding. And it's important that the quality is higher. Thirdly, what you asked for is also, let's say, this ball that got thrown up in the wrong air. If the Riigikogu so decides and the supervision of the funding of political parties moves from the ERJK to a higher level, to a new level, under the National Audit Office, there is no reason to believe that any procedures will fall away. Honestly, I can't imagine it. After all, it makes a lot of sense that it is legitimate for the next organisation to take over these things, to continue to process them. I see no basis for this fear. Point 1. Point 2: is the opinion that this period should be three years retroactively, as the draft states. I think today the Riigikogu can discuss this long enough. If I understand the wishes of the Riigikogu correctly, you will come back to this debate in the autumn of this year, in the meantime it will be the summer months. I totally think this period can be extended. This procedure is fully open. But yes, I have also read in the press that the Commission is now being abolished because some procedures can then somehow be pushed between two chairs. That's a completely wrong idea. Of course, further processing is necessary; of course, the procedure must be completed. If there is a breach, the fine must be imposed if there is no infringement, the proceedings shall be terminated without penalty. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U5	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U6	Thank you. You didn't give me a clear answer, but I'll give you another chance. Do you not think that the rule of law solution is that you will withdraw this draft until the disputes between the Centre Party are resolved? If you really want to do everything you say in the rhetoric, you want to change the supervision of the funding of the parties, maybe you can start over on a clean slate once the issues relating to you have been resolved? Then there would be no feeling that you actually want to solve your party's problems in this way. It looks really bad, it looks really ugly, and it's not right for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U7	Thank you. Well, you're going to be very political now. First of all, point 1: I say once again that the bill is initiated by the Riigikogu, it is not initiated by the government. Point 2 is that I do not see any reason for this time to be dimmed in such a way that there are no procedures on, for example, the Estonian Centre Party of the NGO. What if there is a procedure regarding the Estonian Reform Party of NGO? If there's this scandal you've had, whether it's a plastic bag scandal or some kind of closet scandal, what do we do? Do we say no, we cannot wind up the Commission because the Estonian Reform Party of the NGO is in the process or in the case of another, third or fourth party? I don't think there's any reasonable justification. I see that it is only worth changing the supervision of the funding of political parties in order to improve the quality of this activity to a new level. Do I think the National Audit Office is a new level? Answer: Yes, it is. Your party has always been in opposition with the National Audit Office, said that what this National Audit Office is interfering with is the period of your administration, which they are reporting, they are wrong, etc. It's your well-known handwriting. My opinion is the opposite: the National Audit Office is reliable. The National Audit Office can be trusted, it is certainly independent, and if the Riigikogu so decides, it will raise the supervision of the funding of political parties to a higher, better level.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! If you follow your last response, perhaps it was that our governments argued with the National Audit Office. You say it's okay, but you don't respond to it. That's probably the difference. However, we come to this very Commission's possible reform, reform and reform. It is clear that the public has the impression that the Centre Party really wants to get out of these things. The National Audit Office itself says that the addition of this function actually undermines or weakens the performance of their basic function. Nor is it 100 per cent sure today that this would not be a violation of the Constitution or an unconstitutional act. Please tell me, why do you want to reform an organisation whose work has resulted in 100% if you decide by case law? And if you respect the National Audit Office in this way, why do you not take into account the words they say that this change is not reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U10	Thank you. Yes, the difference between us is that I really respect the activities of the National Audit Office, sincerely. I'd say it's time for the National Audit Office to have an argument. I recall that Taavi Rõivas, for example, has said about the National Audit Office that if you look behind the numbers, every person in high school understands that the numbers used in this comparison are absolutely not comparable. I would say that this certainly is not an argumentary criticism when it is claimed that the National Audit Office does not master mathematics at secondary school. This is one example. But I am telling you, Mr Kruuse, that I believe that there is a very fundamental difference between the Reform Party and the Centre Party. You have always said that this National Audit Office deals with something remote, interrupts. You see, Mr. Clothes says they don't master high school mathematics. It's derogatory, it's directly derogatory. I do not disparage the ERJK, but I think that in any case the National Audit Office will raise the level of supervision. If he didn't, there'd be no point in giving that job. Now that you are asking about compliance with the Constitution, I agree that it must be discussed in the Riigikogu in any case. There must be no illegal activity. I do not know that the National Audit Office would have said that this draft is against the Constitution. He has drawn attention to certain questions. He says that according to the Constitution, the National Audit Office is an independent economic control body whose task is to control the use of state assets. § 133 of the Constitution contains a list that the National Audit Office controls or audits. The Supreme Court has stated that it is also possible to entrust the National Audit Office with tasks that are not directly written in the Constitution, but certain conditions must be met. Therefore, any additional task assigned to the National Audit Office must be analysed in the light of the principles of § 133 of the Constitution, and it must be determined whether (a) the additional task is inherent to the National Audit Office as an independent body of economic control, (b) whether the additional task may undermine the performance of the main tasks of the National Audit Office and (c) whether there are compelling reasons why the task should be assigned to the National Audit Office, i.e. whether the additional task cannot be performed in any other way reasonably or whether it would be complicated. Estonia is a parliamentary state. The highest authority is held by an Estonian resident, who elects the Riigikogu. And that is, in the end, the decision of the Riigikogu as to how it considers it correct. Of course, cooperation and dialogue with the National Audit Office are also very important in the processing of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U12	Question 2, Indrek Saar asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U13	Thank you for the floor. Mr Prime Minister! With the Constitution, you have stopped answering the previous question and we will continue on the same subject. Estonia certainly has a very good and democratic constitution. It is at the same time a basic document that brings together the core text of our statehood and the fundamental values of society. And life has shown that it is a real and living document. Our constitution contains a number of democratic principles. I should not have to remind you of these clear principles for every graduate of primary school or for an applicant for Estonian citizenship if the members of your government were not wrong to them over and over again. § 41 of the Constitution states that everyone has the right to remain true to his or her opinions and beliefs and no one can be held legally responsible for his or her convictions. The right to remain true to its opinions and convictions is further protected by § 12, which prohibits discrimination on grounds of political and other convictions and provides that incitement to political hatred, violence and discrimination is punishable. Last week, a member of the Government of the Republic, a minister of your government, came to the point that when strawberry growers expressed the opinion that what the government is doing in their field at the moment is unreasonable, the minister threatened these people with sanctions through the tax administration under his administration. Please give your assessment whether this is normal in your opinion and in accordance with the Constitution of Estonia, the behaviour of the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U14	Thank you. When we talk about the threat of someone, I don't know, criticising the government, criticising the government department or the politician in it and saying that there is going to be some kind of control, there is, of course, no justification for it. But if the Minister of Finance is concerned that we have a tax hole in any sector that needs to be reduced, then I am certainly behind it. Of course, reducing the tax gap is the right principle in every area, whether in agriculture, construction or anywhere. And that, in my opinion, is a daily duty for the Minister of Finance. The Estonian Tax and Customs Board is under his authority and its work must be carried out continuously, all the time. If he has fears that labour taxes have not been paid enough in some sector, then there are control bodies in Estonia and this needs to be checked. But if you ask for such a principled position, of course I believe that Estonia is a democratic state. We have a free society, we have freedom of expression, we can criticise different people, different politicians, the Prime Minister, etc. And the result of this criticism must never be a reaction, that then we will use, I don't know, our political arm and bring control to anyone. Fortunately, Estonia is a rule of law, and even if we could theoretically think about it, it is hardly real in practice. I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U15	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U16	Thank you for your answer. Although you confirm that you do not believe that this can be done, many people in society have expressed the view that the signal you send is precisely that if you dare to be critical, if you dare to express an opinion that does not suit the government, then we have the means to bring you to order. By putting these two things into criticism by strawberry growers and possible intervention by the tax administration into a sentence, you have, unfortunately, created such a situation. As Prime Minister, what are you going to do to give society back confidence that freedom of expression exists in Estonia and that everyone has the right to express their opinions freely, without the government's members threatening them with possible repressions, by causing them discomfort through their agencies? What exactly are you doing as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U17	Mr. Island! I will do what I have promised both you and the other people of Estonia: I will do my day-to-day work. The last time I did that was two minutes ago when I answered your first question that such a reaction could not be justified in any way. And I also said that even if, in theory, we wanted to apply such a scheme, I would argue that in practice it does not work in the Estonian country. I believe that. Now, coming to this thing, let's say, to fine-tuning, or strawberry growers, I think this war on headlines has to be ended in any case. This isn't going to work. These powerful headlines don't collect any strawberries from the strawberry field. Point 1. Point 2 is that we still have to find the best solution. And today we have taken quite concrete steps to find a solution also in the gardening sector, in this case for strawberry growers. As you know, no one could predict coronavir, its effect. But the truth is that travel between countries has basically been closed for a very long time. Estonia has been one of the first to reopen its borders, we have made very good international cooperation between Estonia and Finland, between the Baltic States. It was only yesterday that the COVID-19 Commission proposed to the Government of the Republic that, from 1 July, shipping connections between Estonia and Sweden could be opened, more specifically with the island of Gotland. Or more specifically, I think their application is from 5 July. Schengen we have opened since 1 June. There are, of course, certain restrictions resulting from the coefficient of infection per 100000 inhabitants. But yes, if you take strawberry growers, gardeners or farmers can stay in the country longer than their permit expires: until 31 July. On the other hand, we are trying to improve communication between the local authorities and I mean communication between the unemployment fund and the Ministry of the Interior. Thirdly, we cannot overcome or recapture the fact that unemployment is rising, the unemployment of the Estonian people is rising. I've personally met strawberry growers. I'd say it was a very nice, very busy, very constructive meeting. However, we must make every effort to open the borders again, including with those countries outside the Schengen area. If you look at the WHO estimates, you can say that the figures in Ukraine are not bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U18	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U19	Thank you, Mr. Ratas! Point 1: Indrek Saar asked you for an assessment that the tax authorities were threatening dissatisfied citizens. That's not what you do. You did not accept this position; you actually accepted it halfway. Secondly, in response to Urmas Kruus and Kaja Kallas, you began mocking them through third parties and claiming that they were somehow criticising the National Audit Office. That's not true. Please be intelligent and honest when you answer questions in the Riigikogu! This reliable institution, for me, is very reliable; I am, by the way, the chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, who has said himself that his duties in controlling political parties are detrimental to the performance of his basic function. This task is not inherent in him; he cannot impose sanctions; he cannot remain independent. This is not in line with his profile, which is stated in the Constitution, even according to this Supreme Court ruling. There are four points in the Constitution that say what the National Audit Office must do. It is responsible for controlling public assets, and it is not the third sector of public assets. The interpretation of the Supreme Court says that the National Audit Office cannot be entrusted with functions that undermine the performance of its main role. Now, please answer this in essence! Why are you slipping away from this committee and why are you not taking a stand? Why are you blaming the questioners and shirking the answers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U20	Thank you. Once again, for the third time now, I will also tell you what I have already said to Mr Island. Maybe you just didn't notice. Certainly no one can threaten anyone by interfering with any kind of public authority due to the position of their workplace. This is unacceptable. I have already said twice, I am now telling you for the third time: I do not believe that, in theory, if we could think about such a solution, this would not be possible in practice in the Estonian state. That's the third time I said that. Now, you're asking why I bring in this topic of the National Audit Office: who attacks it, who protects it. But that's why I'm saying it's real. I read the statements of the previous chairman of your party, Mr. Rõivas, I can take the words of the chairman of another of your parties, Mr. Ansip, about the National Audit Office: '... but the National Audit Office, who should also take a broader view, look at the interests of the state and the people, they are looking for some sort, I don't know... Cheap yellow conflict. ' This has been the attitude of the Reform Party of the National Audit Office. Of course, you are right: if we give the National Audit Office a new task, they will not be able to continue their work with the resources they have so far. And that requires giving them additional resources in any case. I don't think I'm ever meant to have the exact same budget, exactly the same staff, to do this job. No, I don't think that's right. So when you say that you trust, you support the National Audit Office, I find it good and good to be done with you and to stand for it. I think it's quite a value. Now on: if this remains so that the National Audit Office can only control state funding when monitoring the funding of political parties, then that is, of course, absurd. Then there can be no control over it. The National Audit Office must be able to control the function of the entire party's funding, both by the state and by private individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U22	Question No 3, Jürgen Ligi asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U23	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! Please at least try to look smart when you answer me. The tasks of the National Audit Office are assigned in the Constitution and you cannot assign to it tasks that are not assigned in the Constitution. This is a commentary on the answers to the previous question. This question on the agenda concerns one of your previous answers to me. You refused to answer my question about how you assess the implementation of crisis measures. I asked for it on May 18. You said thank you, but you said some totally off-limits. Now, as the same leader of the Commission mentioned above, I ask you again, try to answer. Just as on 18 May, we are in our supervision today, with the same knowledge that crisis measures are ending in small sums, but the biggest amounts of money, this is about KredEx, and the money is not going to reach the economy. You have already had to receive this information from various sources, and these other sources you cannot ignore to the extent of your opposition, like Parliament, parliamentary supervision. Please tell me how you appreciate the implementation of the crisis package. Do you think it could be improved? What are you going to do to make the money that the Riigikogu allocated and whose implementation was supposed to be urgent practically reach the economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U24	Thank you. The short answer to whether it can be corrected is: yes, certainly it can. And I do not think that there can be, but there is certainly a need for improvement. Point 1. Now, as far as the crisis package is concerned, I think that this step, which has been taken in this really global crisis, has been different from the one taken 12 years ago. This has been a step towards saving the economy by providing additional resources to the private sector, as well as to the public sector. And I think this solution, at least according to momentary knowledge, has been correct. Yes, I agree that, as you rightly said, the aim of this crisis package has been to ensure that these measures are very rapid. Therefore, I sincerely thank you and the entire Riigikogu for this extra budget. I have spoken to all 79 municipalities and assured them that the additional budget adopted by the Riigikogu has a very strong emphasis on the support of local governments. But let's look at these different measures. First, EAS. We have set out in EAS criteria or areas for tourism action: accommodation, catering, travel agencies, attractions, tourism services and islands. In total, the Riigikogu has provided 25 million euros for this measure. As of 1 June, applications have been submitted for an amount of EUR 24,83 million. Positive decisions have been taken for EUR 14,75 million and subsidies of EUR 12,19 million have been paid out. I appreciate that this measure is quite well, quite operational. The second EAS measure relates to 10 million, micro and small enterprises. The Riigikogu provided 10 million for its budget. These applications have been submitted at 1 June for an amount of EUR 14,85 million. Positive decisions have been taken in the amount of EUR 4,13 million and EUR 2,87 million have been disbursed as of 1 June. Now, you're asking about KredEx. I think that KredEx is actually the measure that should be changed, which should be made more favourable to the market. If you look at the amount of direct loans, which is in the budget of 500 million, separated by the Riigikogu, applications have been submitted for EUR 338.2 million. Positive decisions have been taken for EUR 120.9 million, with contracts signed amounting to EUR 9.8 million. These are some concrete examples of measures taken by EAS and KredEx. On the subject of the MES, perhaps we can hold this debate as part of the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U25	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U26	Thank you. Mr. Ratas, I'm not having trouble getting statistics, I'm having trouble getting your answer. I asked you about KredEx's 1.5 billion guarantees, you're counting on me $10 million that's running out. I also said they're running out. The crisis measure had to be swift, effective, targeted. But the bulk of this budget stands at a billion and half! It is precisely in the tens of millions that there have been withdrawals. One and a half billion versus tens of millions. You're talking about tens of millions of millions that have been used, and you're saying that these are some examples. Show that you have some kind of generalisation capacity, that you are able to assess the order of magnitude and that you understand that the problem of using a billion and a half is the problem of the Estonian economy and you will solve it. Please tell me what is the plan for the KredEx guarantee to get into the economy with the loans granted by the banks, and it will not be left with the brazen attitude of your finance minister that the banks cannot do anything to make them take what is being given to them. Banks do not take what is given to them if it leads to a direct loss of money. Please tell me how you will improve your cooperation to finance the economy so that the money can reach the economy in the current crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U27	Thank you. You say, on the one hand, that I will read to you, I don't know, tens of millions, which are like small sums and are running out, and, on the other hand, there is an accusation that the measures have not reached those in need of help quickly or operationally on the market. Well, there's a total conflict in your own sentence! When the sums are running out, it means that they have been requested quickly and have also been paid out quickly. Now a specific question concerning KredEx and its guarantee of EUR 1.5 billion. As I said in answering your first question: yes, in the case of KredEx, I think it is necessary to revise these criteria. I am firmly on that point, and this is the work we are doing. But when you ask me what I have done for this, I also said in the previous Question Time, when we talked about this topic, that, when the banks met representatives of the banking sector and KredEx, they said that this first operational relief was actually done by the banks to the business sector, allowing for a grace period. This helped many companies to get paid leave and not have to apply for KredEx's guarantee, which amounts to EUR 1.5 billion. Now, what criteria should be changed? There has been talk of the so-called 15% border to raise it to 20 to 25%. Point 1. It has also been said that we should look separately at old loans and new loans and create different guarantee mechanisms. After all, I have said publicly myself that the measures of the first package of KredEx must be reviewed. This is mostly what KredEx's guarantee is all about. I absolutely do not agree that other measures, which have also been allocated tens, if not hundreds of millions, are of little importance or have not started to work quickly. You're talking about generalism. You have to look at the generals. Let's take the unemployment fund action. It's been very effective. It started working really fast. This has been a very good measure, but true, it has also been an enormously expensive measure. But when you look at how the Council and the Government of the Unemployment Insurance Fund have worked together, I think it has been good and operational cooperation. The local government support measures was already in operation, the construction sector is already in operation, investments are working. So there are measures that have worked very well, but there are also those that can still be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U28	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U29	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! It is kind of heartwarming that you are still explaining your views by referring to my earlier quotes. As Chairman of your predecessor's Centre Party, this style was also excellent. But if you actually went into the quote I said in 2016, bearing in mind that the National Audit Office attacked the State Real Estate Company and compared what they did with the key bundle and mop and tried to make these numbers comparable, you would agree that they were incomparable numbers. But that's not the issue right now. I, too, want to talk about crisis measures, because that is what really should be done. But I can't get over or around the fact that your government union, and here you can't get away from responsibility, because you're leading both the Centre Party and the Coalition, trying to change the rules of the game in a way that is favourable to you. And I find that totally unacceptable. In 2015 and 2019 the Reform Party and the Centre Party were competitors for the election victory and this competition was very intense. And now, in essence, the Political Financing Supervisory Commission has said that, at both elections, the Edgar Savisaar managed on one occasion, and on the other, the Centre Party, which you manage on the other, used doping. These disputes are ongoing and the final outcome of these disputes depends on whether they can be concluded or whether the Commission for the Monitoring of the Financing of Political Parties is dissolved and these disputes may, at least theoretically, fall away. The results of both elections were such that the Centre Party did not win either time, but either sooner or later, you became Prime Minister. Don't you care about the legal clarity of whether you became Prime Minister by using doping or by being honest?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U30	Thank you. This introduction to your question begins with the ideological division of the National Audit Office between the Reform Party and the Centre Party. You will also use today, on 3 June 2020, the formula that the National Audit Office attacked you in 2016. Well, how can the National Audit Office attack a strong Prime Minister from Taavi Rõiva? What do you mean he attacked you? We already have a very different mindset. I would never say the National Audit Office attacks. The National Audit Office carries out its own audits, controls the use of state assets. I guess there must have been some problems. When we talk about defense, I don't think they can attack if there's a need to protect the country. So, what's the National Audit Office doing? Point 1. Item 2: You are a very good politician, you say that the Centre Party's affairs will fall away if the Riigikogu approves this draft. And you put one word in a sentence like this very quietly:'may'. Good Javier, there's no way they can go away. By referring to this, you cannot refuse to give this task to the National Audit Office. The procedures that are in progress today must go on when a new organisation is involved. And you know that very well, I think. Today, the Riigikogu or any party or political level will not decide that we will reject these matters from the proceedings. You can't do that! Now go on, you're talking about doping. Well, I don't know... You're saying that 2015 and 2019 we used doping. I'd like to know what kind of doping the Central Party used in 2019. Give me an example! Please give an example of this! The highest power, as our law says, is the people. On 3 March 2019 the Riigikogu elected: good reform parties, good members of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, members of the Fatherland Party, social democrats and middle parties. And these five political parties formed a coalition and opposition in political competition. I do not know that anyone would have said that these elections were unfair or deceitful or that they were somehow mismanaged. It has been said that they were open, democratic. And I'll stick to it. What kind of doping are we talking about, Mr. Clothes? Once the doping has been used, it must be given to the control bodies. If you're telling me you're aware that someone used doping on March 3, 2019, you're gonna have to report it. But as the result of political competition, the opposition and coalition have been established in this Chamber in accordance with the will of the highest authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U31	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U32	Question No 4, Helmen Kütt submits and answers Social Minister Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! There are a large number of institutions in your administration, such as the Social Insurance Board, Health Board, Unemployment Insurance Fund, Health Insurance Fund, Medicines Agency, Labour Inspectorate, and there are many more. But you also have some so-called advisory bodies. I'd stop at two of them today. I would like to ask you the first question about the NGO Accessibility Forum. You have spoken here on the floor that the State Chancellery now has a council with representatives of different types of trees. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, such a council has been working since 2015. These people, who belong to it, are representatives of different types of trees, they are spokespersons, experts and highly competent, educated people. They have offered their assistance to the unemployment fund when the unemployment fund's rooms were rebuilt in connection with the employment reform, they were made suitable and accessible to all those who turned to the unemployment fund as a result of the work capacity reform. There's a big story about that in yesterday's newspaper. People now realise that the state of emergency taught us a lesson about the needs of people with disabilities and about the opportunities of society. How many times have you met this council? How many times have you asked them for suggestions? You were also a member of the Crisis Committee, and if you had called these people together in an emergency, perhaps the shortcomings and, in fact, the serious concerns that were highlighted in yesterday's paper would have been removed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U34	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! The Accessibility Council was indeed established in 2015. This has been very constructive and necessary to resolve the universal design issues of the Council's accessibility. The Council has supported either the Minister for Social Protection or the Minister for Social Affairs to draw conclusions and, of course, he has had his input. The Council has been chaired by the Deputy Chancellor of Social Affairs. It is 27 members and brings together representatives of ministries and other public authorities, disabled people's organisations, universities and various non-profit organisations. As has been said, one of the roles of the Council is certainly to monitor and evaluate the implementation of laws and standards relating to accessibility so that the situation continues to improve. The question is now that on 26 September 2019 the government really decided to set up an accessibility task force whose task is to submit its proposals to the government for improving accessibility in Estonia by the summer of 2021. In order to avoid duplication and to make reasonable use of the resources of the different organisations, it has been decided that during the working period of the Task Force, the Accessibility Board will not gather separately, unless there is a specific need to do so. Very many members of the Council also participate in the task force. For example, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, various ministries, an association of cities and municipalities are represented there. But, of course, it is always possible to involve other parties. The working groups of the Accessibility Task Force will actually hold working meetings every week. The task of this task force, as you are well aware, is to identify the situation of accessibility, problems in all key aspects of the environment and society, including access to public buildings, public spaces, its various parts, public private services, e-services, residential property and means of transport. I think that this broader approach is quite right, because accessibility is often spoken of, as you are well aware of your experience, very narrowly, purely building-based, in view of the mobility of people with special needs and leaving aside all kinds of other concerns and aspects, it is then the availability of services, the possibility of using different products, the availability of digital solutions for all members of society. So the spectrum of this task force he's looking at is very wide. Policy guidelines, solutions enabling the move towards public space and services accessible to all people over the next ten years must be developed. And undoubtedly such a common approach, a clear target, will also contribute to future crisis situations. We try to be better prepared for them and prepare for them in advance. It is clear that during an emergency situation, very many decisions made in previous years can be re-designed, fully redesigned, and unfortunately cannot be rebuilt in time. But I agree very much with the fact that the emergency highlighted these concerns.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U35	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U36	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You didn't tell me how many times you met representatives of the Accessibility Forum established in 2015. I assume that you sometimes called a task force set up before the State Chancellery. You can still answer that. My second question concerns the Committee on Older People's Policy, which is also an advisory body. It was particularly sad to hear that this Commission, which has been working for more than 20 years and which has developed the fundamentals of older people's policies, has lost its voice this year, the Lifebow. It has been issued with 220 digits. A professional, dignified journalist, Ene Veiper, has done this. It was the Commission's voice, reflected the ministry's activities, the activities of the various agencies. No numbers have appeared this year, as the application for issuing this page was not supported. Yet, it was a much - awaited newspaper in the day centres and in the municipalities. It was replicated, and people got it for free. Now they didn't find the money to continue publishing such a dignified newspaper. Do you think you need such councils and other advisory bodies at all, or do you think it's just for a tick and their involvement is rather cumbersome than necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U37	Thanks for the questions. There can only be one answer: of course, they are needed, that is why they are created. Very many of them, as I referred to earlier, do not come together under the direction of the Minister, but perhaps under the leadership of the Deputy Chancellor. And there are other levels. As you well know, the Ministry of Social Affairs currently covers the social protection sector, the health sector, the labour market sector, equal opportunities policy, and all four of them have different subgroups, working groups, committees. Similarly, as you rightly pointed out, different public offices and agencies are represented there. This spectrum is very wide and I think it should be, because the circle of topics that the Ministry deals with is wide. This is a good opportunity to get as much direct feedback from society as possible, input from different stakeholders. The last name may in some ways be misleading. 'Hungarian group' is certainly nothing negative. The interest group advocates the protection of people's rights in a specific area. And I think that some people in Estonia really need a lot of support, it is funding for disabled people's organisations, it is child protection activities, it is the operation of a large number of non-profit organisations in general. The country has left quite a number of important issues to the civil sector, which is certainly not bad or wrong, but it also requires adequate support for these activities. And I think that getting feedback on our policies and guidelines is certainly important to the Ministry. Your concerns concerned a specific publication. As far as I am aware, the changes in the use of the gambling tax provided that it was no longer possible to support the periodicity with this money. The question was that, in order to issue this page, there should be an agreement with some of the so-called partners who have been chosen by the Ministry as "strategic partner" to provide support from gambling tax money. This particular partner should issue this page. It is always possible to grant other grants, it is then possible to process the state budget through the Riigikogu or otherwise. I certainly agree that such publications for specific sectors, for specific civil society organisations, are necessary in themselves. I have no intention of eliminating these councils or other advisory bodies in any way, rather I think their role is important. I think I am not wrong to say that I have met more than ten different committees or consultative committees during my term of office and, of course, with very many organisations. I have met representative organisations for people with disabilities, representatives of the elderly and child protection, very many other working groups, which may not be formally acting as a Commission. We have been looking for solutions to the issues of substitution care and other issues raised in the media on child protection, the problems of the elderly. We've dealt with them and we'll keep working on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U38	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I'm trying to understand the organization of the government. You are sitting on the right hand of the Prime Minister today, and you have been a good counselor on his right hand long before. You're the Minister of Social Affairs. Would you draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that if members of the government publicly insult the citizens of another country, this could be called incitement to hatred? It's not decent, and the Prime Minister could at least apologize to these abusive people. Has it never occurred to you to draw attention to this? The other part of the question relates to the fact that the University of Tartu has recognised you with the Skytte Medal and one of the reasons is that you have defended the line of evidence. Would you be willing to tell the Prime Minister and other members of the government that, since there are 13 people in Ukraine who suffer from corona disease per 100,000, there is no health argument to keep our border and to frustrate Estonian agriculture, but it would be reasonable to allow people who want to come here and who have been invited to come here to cross the border and to have this work done and not traumatise society? Please tell me if you can prove it, you're the boyfriend of this medal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U40	Thank you very much for the multifaceted question. Then let's start at the beginning. Depreciating and attacking different social groups on the grounds of nationality or on any other soil is, of course, not suitable for the government as a whole or for me. And I think the Prime Minister has also made this very clear and repeatedly. So in that sense, I believe we're all on the same side of the front line. As far as Ukraine is concerned, I understand that this issue also ties in with the debate in the Committee on Rural Affairs yesterday. As I have already pointed out, if we really look at these figures, the Ukrainian figure is significantly better than, for example, Belarus, Russia and several countries in the European Union. At the same time, we know that the ratio of these tests to the European figure is an apology if, by definition, I am wrong about one of the last ones. I am not saying about it, just in case, this statistics change every day, but Ukraine has done fewer tests per population than Estonia has done. Similarly, Belarus, Russia, several Balkan countries, etc., have done less to repeat them. Perhaps there is some questioning here and, as I said, we have no better knowledge. But on the basis of the knowledge we have, it can be assumed that the situation in Ukraine really is better than in other Eastern European countries. How to take it, right, Russia is part of Europe, part of Asia. The government has not really decided to open the border towards third countries. In Europe, this is not the case at all. There are certain options for Serbia, but in general the European Union has maintained a conservative line and made various 'one-off' solutions. Finland was already granted a permit to import foreign workers. This is particularly because the corona virus is new for everyone, the COVID-19 disease is new. The danger that wider migration may pose, the wider movement of people can lead to. At the same time, it can be said that here, too, there are really positive trends already. The opening of the Schengen area is increasingly spoken of; the opening of the movement between third countries is also discussed. Of course, here too, we are based precisely on evidence and scientific basis. We have agreed in the government the criteria on which we decide whether a certain country can open an airline to us, whether a person coming from one country or another must remain in quarantine or not to remain in quarantine. My position, which I also expressed yesterday, is that if we talk about a purely epidemiological picture, if we disregard all other health arguments, it does not matter whether it is a country of the European Union, of Asia, of the American continent or of a country which is not part of the European Union. Of course, you have to look at the rate of infection, the real risk and consider it. All other arguments relating, for example, to the unemployment situation on the ground, the labour market situation, the increase in the number of employees, the economic situation, foreign policy, all of which are other criteria and must be discussed jointly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U42	Next, question 5: Andres Sutt, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! We know very well that the measures taken to combat the corona crisis have hit the economy in Estonia, in Europe, all over the world. We are facing the greatest recession in the history of the world. And certainly the European Union's 750 billion recovery fund now plays a very important role in relaunching the European Union's economy. I am simply saying that these billion zeros would not mislead everyone that this amount represents about 4% of the European Union's GDP. And, of course, the success of our economic recovery also depends on how quickly the European Union's economy recovers. What is the government's position on the European Union's recovery fund is, to put it mildly, unclear, frankly confusing. There have been statements from the government that Estonia would probably have nothing to gain from a possible fund, because the market will receive a loan at a lower price and without the conditions that the European Union can impose. Or the view that the decision whether or not to support such a fund should be put to a referendum. Or the view that this is a positive and powerful step. So, Prime Minister, what's the government's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U44	Thank you, Mr. Sutt. I think there are a number of points in your question. I'm gonna do the last one first. You spoke of different positions of the government. It seems to me that you like that there is a plurality of opinions, not that they say: that is what is happening and that is what has to be done. Like, I don't know, the Defence Forces, right? That's what you gotta do. But we live in a democratic free society where everyone has the right to say their word. The word is free, as the President said, you will remember when the government was appointed. Word's free. So I really like your approach. And it seems to me that the government ministers feel the same way and say what they think. That's the way it's supposed to be, isn't it? And I hope it stays that way. I don't know if you wanted to point out that this was never the case, but in any case, we should stand for it. Now, the other thing you've brought, which I think is important. It seems to me that there is such a triplet forming: Kristen Michal, you and I. We want to look ahead to the picture of the economy for a longer period. Mr Michal and I have been debating this matter several times. He says he wants to look behind the horizon. Well, that's right. I think you've brought that up, too, so we're kind of on the same page here. Yes, this corona crisis has been frightening, and I think this re-launch fund is also important for Estonia. You're asking if it has to be put to a referendum, or, let's say, someone has proposed it. As far as I know, a very thorough legal analysis is being carried out as to whether or not it should be put to a referendum. The preliminary assessment is that it will not be: it must not be put to a referendum. I have said that if this restart fund becomes a villa too, if it becomes a reality, then in any case you must come to the Riigikogu to ask for this permission. The Riigikogu should decide whether or not this authorisation is granted. Now, you're asking what's the government's position. The European Commission has come up with Mrs Ursula von der Leyen's proposal to allocate EUR 750 billion to the re-launch plan. It is in 2018 prices, at 809 billion current prices. If you answer very briefly, I support it. I think this is the right direction, the right approach, to help the economy, to relaunch the economy in the European Union and in Estonia by implementing both short-term and long-term projects. That's my answer. But we can also say that there is actually nothing yet. There is no MFF, there is no rebooting scheme in all of this. You know very well, as a finance guru, that several countries are opposed. Several countries say that grants and loans cannot be broken down, for example, only loans must be involved. I think there will be very interesting discussions in the Committee on European Union Affairs, but above all, of course, in the Council. On June 18th, we will meet and discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U45	Andres Sutt, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U46	Thank you, good Prime Minister, for this answer and for drawing this triangle. But let's try to keep this debate going. There are now several statements. I understand that you, and therefore the whole government, are basically supporting it, and you want to come to the Riigikogu with this issue. In the meantime, before the important Council, there will also be an Ecofin meeting. With what position does the Minister of Finance represent the Estonian Government in this collection?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U47	Thank you. The government is really gonna discuss this tomorrow. Tomorrow morning, early at 8:00, we'll start with this debate. This is in the context of the debate in the cabinet before the Government of the Republic, and I think we are going on with it next week. This is a very serious debate. Let's face it, 750 billion is a huge amount of money. The operationality of its use, its content, different pillars... First pillar support for Member States, second pillar support for the private sector, third pillar support for crisis lessons. Everyone's very important. I think that this requires a very serious approach and it is right to ask how this reimbursement will still be in the future. We will take the same subsidies that have been put forward: 500 billion in 2018 prices. How will it be repaid in 2028 to 2038? Will there be an increase in its contribution to the European Union, a reduction in the budget or some kind of pan-European tax? This debate should, in my opinion, be very broad. On 18 June there will be a Council where, of course, positions are needed. You referred to the Riigikogu. I do not know if that is what you mean, but I will take it up with you and say that I agree and I think that, in addition to ELAK, we could seriously think about the debate in this big Chamber. This really isn't a joke. On the one hand, yes, we can say, based on the information we have today, that to Estonia, for example, this means more than a billion euros of grants from the first pillar, which is a re-launch facility. But it has to do with the green and digital revolutions. We also need to think about the improvements to cohesion policy that are in the first pillar, as well as the supplement to the rural development fund, the additional fund, as well as the fair transition to the fund, which, by the way, is growing considerably. And in relation to this proposal, the Fair Transition Fund will also rise upwards in terms of MFF. In my opinion, the questions must be answered as to how this reimbursement will still take place. We have one possibility: that we will increase our membership fee. It is estimated in today's prices that we can say that in 30 years we will have to pay back in the order of 1 billion. This would mean that our monthly payment would increase by 5 to 7%. But as I said, there are other alternatives. Perhaps this reimbursement is not needed at all, perhaps it is decided to cut the budget or introduce a pan-European tax. So we have to have discussions, but yes, I think this is a step in the right direction. And a very powerful step. It still shows a strong, united European Union that is doing everything it can to help its economy and also to save Estonia's economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U48	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U49	Thank you. I will, however, return to the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. If I were the Prime Minister and the Committee on Financing of Political Parties had started two things on the Reform Party, I would certainly consider it unethical that this committee would disappear before these disputes have been resolved. Now I'm going to ask you again the same thing I asked you before. Don't you think that's unethical right now? After all, there are two major issues in the proceedings: the donation of EUR 50000 to the Centre Party and the settlement of a dispute of 1.2 million? Why don't you take this change to the table when these disputes are resolved and start with a clean slate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U50	Thank you very much. The subject of Andres Sut's question was the European Union's aid package. Well, I think the issue of the ICTY is completely connected to this: both concern money, but also legal issues. So I see a very strong connection here. Now, the 50,000 first. There have been contributions to the political parties in different orders of magnitude, I believe, to your party as well. And there have been donations for much more than 50,000 euros. I've asked the vice-president of the party and the secretary general to meet this donor. They did it through a video conference. I was told there's a very personal story back there. It's a very personal story! It was the decision of this person, as much as he commented with his family. And he also said that, of course, he cooperates fully and openly with the prosecutor's office. That's all I have. I believe that information. As he confirmed, yes, it is very personal, this family's own story. Let's go. You said if you were the Prime Minister. Of course, this possibility is that there is political competition in this Chamber, and that is what will happen. Depends on how most people decide in this hall. But what I want to say again is that your intimidation, I mean the tandem, Kallas and Dress, that something now falls between two chairs, well, that's absurd. How can you even think that some sort of procedure is being dropped off the table? I don't understand it. You can't think like that, you can't think like that! And it can't be! This procedure is pending at the ERJK. If the Riigikogu decides to entrust this task to the National Audit Office, then I think it needs to be processed to the end. I don't see any other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U51	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U52	Question 6. It is presented by Heljo Pikhof and corresponds to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U53	Prime Minister! Social Democrats have long applied for free early childhood education, i.e. the exemption of parents from the place fee for kindergarten. We have also submitted a draft to the Riigikogu proceedings. Our idea is that this money should come from the state, the state budget. The Ministry of Finance has said that it would cost 40 million euros, not too much, you could say that. The point of order is clear: no child should be deprived of early childhood education because of the family's economic needs. We all know that it is the pre-school development of a child that lays the foundation for his or her learning and social skills; early childhood education is a fundamental and integral part of all education. After all, we have a high school, a high school, even a higher education, when you get your study done in the right time. But preschool education, take a finger, is subject to a charge. According to the letters, we currently have 89% of children between 3 and 6 years of age in preschool facilities. At the same time, ten percent of those who are excluded from early childhood education are concerned about educational researchers, all the more so since they are predominantly children who are socially dependent. School life has shown that later, it is these children who need help. Rapid legitimisation of the draft is crucial for thousands of families, where income losses are caused by the crisis. Every day, families are added where one or both parents remain unemployed. Of course, our bill is meant that the day care allowance must come in order to stay. My question is: why does the Centre Party not support free early childhood education? In fact, yesterday in the Committee on Culture, we had a debate on this issue, and I defended the draft on behalf of the Socialists. It was a big surprise for me when the chairman of the Committee on Culture said that this draft was political.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U54	Thank you, Mrs. Pikhof. What can I say? You said it wouldn't cost too much. When I heard right, you said 40 million euros. Well, what I'm saying is, 40 million is a lot of money. In every way. It's a lot of money for parents' wallets to take as a sum, but of course it's also a lot of money for the state. The fact that we have families that are difficult or difficult to pay for kindergarten is certainly the right thing to do. But here we have come, and I think, in a very large majority, local authorities will help if it is socially justified to help these households. I took out statistics for an interest. First of all, we must be guided by what the law says. At present, by law, this is the law on pre-school children's institutions, the maximum rate of the place payment, within which the municipality has been given the discretion to impose a more favourable remuneration. Only ten municipalities, as far as I know, have set a maximum rate for the place payment and that is, by law, 20% of the minimum wage set by the government. From 1 January 2020, the minimum wage shall be EUR 3.48 per hour and EUR 584 per month. I took the example of some municipalities and tried to calculate quickly. The Tallinn rate should be 12.2% of the minimum wage. If I'm not mistaken, it's 71 euros and about 25 cents. And if there is a swimming pool in Tallinn kindergarten, I remember that there were eight such municipal nurseries in my time, maybe now there are more, here I may be wrong, then another 8 euros will have to be paid. That's 13.4% when there's a swimming pool, but in a regular kindergarten where there's no swimming pool, 12.2%. I will also give an example of Tartu. There, the place fee for kindergarten is 14% of the minimum wage set by the local government council. As you can see, there are two large municipalities of Tallinn with 12.2% and Tartu with 14%, who have not applied the maximum rate. This question, of course, will ultimately go back to what is most important. Are the local authorities still helping families who can't pay? I think there are different social benefits in local governments. And the second question is where you see the EUR 40 million cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U55	Heljo Pikhof, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U56	Thank you. Indeed, the Pre-school Childhood Act provides that a parent may be asked for 20% of the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic. At present, this minimum wage is EUR 584. As you said, some municipalities have actually set the place fee for kindergarten as a fixed percentage of the minimum wage. And that means that if the minimum wage rises, the place fee will be machineically increased. And by the way, there is a seat fee of 81 euros in Tartu, plus food money. And as you also said, there is a seat fee of 71.25 euros in Tallinn, plus food money. The second part of the municipalities has established a local fee in the form of a specific amount of money. For example, the place fee in Rakvere rural municipality is EUR 5; in Kanepi, Peipsiääre and Võru rural municipality, 10 euros per month are charged. It can be said that such local inequalities within the country can be sought. When we look at Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Romania, Montenegro, for example, we see that early childhood education is free of charge. In most European countries, if I am not mistaken, either one or two years before school early childhood education is certainly free of charge. In our small country, however, there is well over ten times the difference in kindergarten pay, and the material stratification of families is accompanied by huge local inequalities. And I'm also saying that if you get any discount on the kindergarten place fee, you must also be a beneficiary of income support. Do you think it's right that there are such big differences in kindergarten pay in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U57	Thank you. I think that this question is very topical and properly focused, given that this differential is so large. You gave an example of how many municipalities compared to Tallinn. Well, I also brought a comparison, I took two municipalities: Tallinn, where the place fee for kindergarten is 12.2% of the minimum wage, and Tartu, where it is 14% or 1.8% higher than in Tallinn. But yes, you're right. As far as I am aware, the Ministry of Education and Research has begun the process of modernising the law governing early childhood education, which will result in the submission of a draft law on early childhood education to the Riigikogu at the beginning of 2021, which will specify, among other things, the basis for financing early childhood education and create the possibility to take account of additional circumstances in order to exempt parents from the place payment in kindergarten. In this sense, you are right that the parent's bill at the end of the month has two lines in most municipalities. There's one bill, but two lines. One shows the kindergarten place fee, the other shows the food money, the meal fee. And I think that action has been taken very quickly when it is taken into account that if a parent says in the morning that a child cannot come, he or she is ill, then this will be taken into account in the payment. If this is already before breakfast, as far as I know, a lot of kindergartens are counting on the child not to be present and no food money will be paid for that day. Of course, this principle in the law that the local government is still closest and must help is very right. Local government knows situations and household livelihoods and people best. And I think it's the most, let's say, targeted support, targeted support. It is still important to take the principle of subsidiarity into account that the local community, the local government, knows everyone's circumstances best. But once again, I do not have this opportunity and, of course, I do not put the Chairman of the Riigikogu in a difficult position here either, but the idea is still that 40 million from where you think it must be taken from. You're comparing us to Latvia. Well, we can make a lot of different comparisons with Latvia, can't we? So it should be explained, however, where you can see the cover, where the money should be taken away or what should be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U58	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will continue on the subject of equal treatment for children. We are about to end the academic year, and distance learning has certainly given us the opportunity to make a big digital jump in our educational landscape. Much has been learned by children, certainly also by teachers, parents and school leaders, and this is all very good. But everything has two ends. In other words, international studies already show that distance learning has increased inequalities between children. As a rule, those children who were just fine at school did very well in distance training, but those who were on the ground were left behind even more. Here's my question. The government decided to shut down all schools at all stages, just like so many other countries when the crisis hits. But the way countries have opened schools has been different. For example, Denmark opened schools on April 15th, and statistics show that this did not make anything worse. You have probably already been able to analyse the effectiveness of the crisis measures implemented. How do you assess the decisions made in the field of education: what went well and what will not be done again?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U60	Thank you. I will start this answer with three words, and that word is: teachers, teachers, teachers. I think that in this distance training, our good Estonian teachers became the worst and most vat. And I will honestly thank them here in this honourable Riigikogu Chamber, in front of the Riigikogu. To point out the most important thing, I think that the teachers actually wore it out perfectly for two and a half or three months under these very difficult conditions. Point 1. Point 2 is that, as you say, different students were suited to distance learning in different ways. Yes, of course I agree with you. Who was more easily assigned to whom it was suitable, and for whom it was still very difficult. There was no classmate aside, there was no teacher aside, there was no social communication or network, which is really important in school life. And then what happens, as you ask, to those who didn't come so well with it? Well, from May 15th, we opened up education in stages. I would like to say once again that this decision was made by the government, if I am not mistaken, on 9 April, more than a month earlier. The Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, brought this feeling into the office. There were also very serious discussions, but afterwards it can be said that at that point the feeling was very right. The idea is that those who are left behind will also receive individual training in school rooms, acquiring topics of different classes with a teacher or teachers. This will last from 15 May to 9 June when school education is completed. You're also asking about hindsight or lessons. Yes, I agree that hindsight is very important, very important. But to give you such an answer worth the Nobel Prize, which we would now do differently if there were to be this wave of the corona virus in the future, it would be difficult. We don't know what that wave is, sometimes the same as it was. I think we did the right thing closing schools. Most countries in the world closed down. In any case, this reduced contacts in the Estonian education system, traffic and public transport. But what I'm saying is, if a new wave comes like April's, I don't think it's right to shut down like that. But I stress, that is only if this outbreak is the same as in April.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U61	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U62	Next question, Number 7. It is presented by Hele Everaus and corresponds to Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U63	Dear Minister, The Health Board has come up with a new initiative: now that we are going to meet the summer, the public beaches no longer need toilets, trash cans, and clothing booths. Contrary to the experience of other countries, where the rules on hygiene and health protection in general beaches, public beaches, are being tightened up, especially in the event of an exit from the crisis caused by the virus. This came as a surprise to environmental specialists in rural municipalities as well as to ordinary people. Why did such resignation take place centuries ago? Is this the new approach of the Ministry of Social Affairs to health protection in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U64	Thank you very much for your question. No, this is not the new approach of the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is true that the Minister for Social Affairs does not draw up guidelines for different bathing sites, nor have I established this procedure in a specific case. As far as these arguments are concerned, the question has been that there are very different sizes of public bathing sites, with very different capacities. It has often happened that people have also visited places where water quality has not been measured. The aim of this amendment, of course, is precisely the protection of human health. It must be clearer to understand what are the safe places to go for a swim from a health point of view and what are the places where it is not recommended. There should be fewer situations where people go swimming in places where there may actually be a risk to their health because of the lack of "tags," no information. As far as this issue is concerned more broadly, it is clear that when we talk about large bathing sites, they will, of course, also have waste bins, dressing rooms and everything like that in the future. I can't imagine it being any different. This will certainly be the case for the municipalities, and for the public authorities, too, that there will be no major changes. The amendment concerns, in particular, the smaller places where, let's say, bathing has taken place. These are not officially registered places and, as I said, there may not be any clarity as to the quality of the water there. In particular, however, this change serves the purpose of protecting people's health and clearly providing information that is "the right places" or recommended places to go swimming and which are places that are not recommended. While we think about how many water bodies there are in Estonia, how many beach edges there are in Estonia, how many different ways to swim or swim in Estonia, it is understandable that it is not possible to impose common high requirements on all of them. Otherwise, you just don't get those bathing sites, but people still go there. This is the content and background of this amendment. And, of course, you can ask the Health Board for more details about the decision and the parties involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U65	Light Everaus, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U66	Thank you. Mr. Minister! It's not clear what you said. I understand that it is also difficult for you to answer, because the Health Board has not, in fact, logically explained how the lack of toilets and garbage cans will improve the quality of water. In general, samples are taken, but the quality of water is not improved. And it's taken once a month. Everywhere in developed countries, a weekly sample is taken, not only of water, but also of sand. All these things are connected. How does water quality improve because we do not have such basic things on the beach?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U67	Thank you very much. As I referred to earlier, the question was that when we talk about the water bodies in Estonia, the different bathing sites where people go, neither the Health Board nor any other agency can reach all the places where people can go into the water, evaluate and measure, even if they want to do their best. And that's not what you're trying to do. The question is that we want to direct people to swim, first and foremost, where it is safe, where it is reasonable. Consequently, such a decision was taken. The high demands of the current regime caused problems in practical life for the holders of bathing sites and, therefore, these bathing sites were simply not established. There was therefore no obligation to take water samples indicating a potential risk of pollution. This arrangement applies today. The logic is, however, that, at the same time, by simplifying the arrangements in some respects, better monitoring and more control of water quality. If you ask me if this could be achieved on an alternative basis, then I fully agree that it probably could. We can, of course, discuss whether it would be possible to distinguish this from different categories of communication points by improvising it on the move. There are higher requirements in some, lower requirements in others. Water samples and all other monitoring would continue to be valid, but certain criteria would depend, for example, on the number of users or on some other indicators. This is also one possible approach. There is now a situation where there are rather high standards that apply to everyone. The consequence is that when you compare the number of places where water samples are taken with the number of places where people swim without it, there is a very clear difference. People also go to places where water quality does not meet the requirements. The objective is, of course, noble and correct, but I agree that this is not the solution. The reason for this solution also raises questions. Therefore, it could certainly be considered whether there are other alternatives to ensuring good water quality in all public bathing sites. But in larger places, it is customary to ensure that there are garbage cans and locker cabinets, as I referred to earlier. And I dare to assume that the vast majority of municipalities will not be able to move any locker booths away from where they are, of course, they will continue to exist. The question is purely whether in very small places where water quality is good, but few people are in attendance, it is necessary to be fully equipped as Pirita Beach, Strroom Beach or Pärnu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U68	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! If this news had been made by a branch of the Ministry of Finance instead of the Health Board, trying to save money and balance the budget, I might have understood the content of the news. But it was made by the Health Department. This can even be compared to the possibility that the Health Board will come up with news that we do not condemn smoking and alcohol consumption. But it seems to me that this Skytte medal is like a millstone around your neck. And for what? Because I am more than certain that there is a very clear link between water pollution levels and the existence of toilets. It's just human and objective. And in a way, I'm truly sorry for you. I don't know what's going on in this job in this context, whether people have been trained in basic communication or not. This isn't the kind of message that the Health Board should send out! It doesn't make any sense. You're gonna have to take care of these things in your administration. It would be just as illogical if the municipality sent any ministry, such as the Ministry of Finance, to know that we have so many parks, we can't manage them, and we don't put trash cans and other basic things in them. The only thing that really got me through this news, Minister, is that the Health Board doesn't have any money. He just doesn't have any money. He wants to do more rehearsals, and he found some sort of reason for the public to be able to save us from that place. Perhaps, in cooperation with the municipalities, more is being done to focus the resource more on water sampling. But forgive me, it doesn't make any sense. Dear Minister, After the crisis that we have been through and from which we have not yet come to the end, is the question now that we do not have the money to carry out certain tests, certain studies, certain evidence-based activities? Are we sticking together with the billions that are actually placed in the wider community?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U70	Thank you for your question. There were a lot of assessments and arguments in the question, so I'd go to them. Currently, 85 bathing sites are monitored and their number is now increasing by nine. So it is a bit incomprehensible that we wanted to save somewhere and less rehearse. On the contrary, the number of samples is increasing. As I previously assured your good colleague in response to Dr Everaus, the aim is precisely to focus on water quality control and to ensure that people bathe in a safe water body, in a safe environment. It is somehow linked to the idea that changing this regime will help to save on its activities, I honestly do not understand which way. As I referred to earlier, the tasks, role and activities of the local government are not directly correlated with this, they are not related to the budget of the Health Board. These are separate institutions, as you well know. The status of the beaches in general, the cleaning of waste, the existence of waste bins and clothing booths, of course, is important for the municipalities and certainly good for that. No cents will be diverted from there, no one will be taken away to check the quality of the water. Those are two separate things. As regards communication, clarification and whether there could be any alternative solutions, I agree, the impact of this decision and the objective could be clearer. When I read it in the paper, my first reaction was similar to yours, so what's the point of this change? But as I got into the details, I found that the logic of that decision still does. As has been said, the aim is not to reduce but rather to increase the number of water samples to be taken, namely to protect human health. It is desirable to point out that people bathe more in places where water quality is controlled and bathe less in places where it has not been done. It's very simple logic. Can this be achieved by other methods? Could this be achieved in such a way that public bathing sites can be divided into categories, or in any other way, I think they could certainly. That's not the point. But to think that this decision somehow eliminates the beaches of the wardrobes, it certainly doesn't make that decision. Thank you, however, for the question. I'm gonna look at this decision one more time and find out what the background and analysis were behind it. As previously referred to by some other questioners, there are quite a number of agencies in the ministry's administration, but at the moment the work of the Health Board is clearly under public scrutiny. In fact, the ministry's field of work is much wider and each subsidiary's individual decision is not read or signed by the minister of the individual act. It was a decision made by the Health Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U71	Thank you. I don't want to go to the beach anymore, but I'm gonna stop looking at this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U72	Next, question No 8, tabled by Jaak Juske and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U73	Honorable Chairman! Good Prime Minister! On 1 July it will be a great day for our neighbours in Russia. It is then that there will be a referendum on the amendment of the Constitution, to which President Putin personally has also added the point that marriage can only be between a man and a woman in the future. Amen. I read the current coalition agreement and discovered that the government union you led wants to hold a referendum on the exact same issue, on the subject of marriage, next autumn, on the same day as the local elections. Good Prime Minister, please explain here before the Riigikogu to the people of Estonia why you want to take the example of Putini from Russia. Why do you want to create a situation where the next autumn, before the local elections, there will be no talk about local life issues, about how to improve life in rural-urban areas, but about the future of marriage? At the same time, the holding of a referendum, a referendum, will certainly create such a situation. Please explain to the people of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U74	Thank you, Mr. Juske. When I read your question on the subject of the coalition agreement, I thought it would be interesting what good you have found there. Given the subject of the previous question and listening to this very interesting discussion, the answers of the Minister of Social Affairs and the reply of the President of the Riigikogu, I thought that you would now bring a horse to the game and start talking about the Beach of Pikkari. North Tallinn is a lovely neighborhood for you, and it's nice to swim next to Katherine's pier. But you got to your question, I don't know where. Your comparison between the activities of the President of the Republic of Estonia and those of the President of the Russian Federation is completely arbitrary. There is no comparison. That's an absurd comparison. What can I tell you? That in the future more questions will be asked by the people of Estonia, I think it is right. That's what the Central Party always thought was right. Also the principle of a public initiative. In 2007, I had the honour of coming here to work, and this was already a number of formations when the Centre Party proposed the principle of a public initiative. At that time, of course, the leading party of the Reform Party didn't want to hear anything about it, and he knocked that ball down with a roller on the road in this hall. At the time, the idea was that if at least 25,000 people collected signatures, they could take some kind of initiative. This actually happened, say, a small step and now these petitions must at least be discussed in Riigikogu committees. But it took a lot of time. So this arbitrary comparison is in no way true.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U75	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U76	Prime Minister! You spoke about the Beach of Pikakar and everything else, but you did not answer my question as to why the government would like to hold this referendum on the same day as the local elections. I'm sure it's confusing. As is the case with the fact that, when we do these two things together, it must be taken into account that the referendum is much less open to the people than to the local elections. There are different queues in the polling stations. You are thus putting voters in an unpleasant and unequal position. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U77	Thank you. If you are now talking about the question to be asked, then really, first, point 1: Estonian law now states that marriage is between a man and a woman. The question is whether or not this principle should be taken from the level of the law to the Constitution. Point 2: Yes, it is, of course, true that the local government electorate is wider than the contingent that can participate in the referendum by law. In any case, this observation is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U78	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U79	Thank you. However, try to answer the question. What are you planning? This referendum is like a coalition treaty. It has a very strong political charge in it. Many people feel touched because their rights and freedoms are being restricted or somehow stigmatised. But what exactly is the point of this coalition treaty? Arrange a referendum on what are the consequences? If the result of the referendum is the principle that only a man and a woman can be married, it is in the law, but we are talking about amending the constitution, is it a decision binding on your government? And how will you explain this decision in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U80	Thank you. Just because you don't know my answers don't fit or you don't want to understand them has been here the whole time. But first another false claim: they want to restrict rights. No, no rights are restricted. You yourself, in your introduction, Mr. Ligi, elegantly rejected this claim. You said the marriage between a man and a woman was actually defined in the law of the family. And that is absolutely right, of course, Mr. Ligi. Let's go. If you answer your question, I don't think any restrictions are right. And that's not gonna happen. You asked that when the people decide on a specific issue, how to enforce it. This is not government enforcement. You know very well that the Constitution can only be amended by the Riigikogu, and it can only be changed in two ways: either with one composition with a large majority or through two formations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U81	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U82	Next question, No 9, posed by Hanno Pevkur and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U83	Good Prime Minister! We have been debating with you a few times over the various statements that your government partner has said. To remind you of such a time series: the desire to release the police chief, the exchange of the attorney general, the insult of the Prime Minister of Finland, the constant desire to shut down the ERR, and I quote that 'in the ERR there is a breach of impartiality, equilibrium, the violation of the requirement to represent certain values', etc. Similarly, threatening their ministers and, last but not least, a clear threat from both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior to farmers that if they do not do what they want, the tax office will come on. Such methods remind us honestly of another organization known as the political police and the Gestapo in 1933-1945. There, political orders were executed with the hands of the police. The Minister of the Interior has also said such sentences: 'Whoever disagrees with my methods, there are two options: whether our paths are broken up or if he adapts. If you can't adapt, you and I are gonna split up. ' You are the head of government, however, and I would like to hear what is the official position of the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic and the message to Estonian IT entrepreneurs, construction companies, agriculture and other entrepreneurs who often need temporary additional labour from abroad. Among other things, so that the Estonian economy can grow. As a result, perhaps the Minister of the Interior can also shape his position and wonder which messages must be adapted to: either the Prime Minister with the messages of the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of the Interior with the messages of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U84	Thank you. It is very easy for me to answer this question, as well as the rhetoric regarding political orders. I am quite sure that I am both in opposition, where I have been for a very long time, and in the coalition, where I have been much shorter, I have responded in the same way. And the answer has always been that I trust the Estonian law enforcement bodies, I trust the Estonian authorities, different agencies. And that is whether my position has been in the opposition or in the coalition. I actually, as has already been said here, cannot in practice imagine how political orders can be made. Estonian officials are still quite well protected from political orders. The Estonian press, which is the fourth power, is strong. I mean, he's gonna bring the day out as soon as he gets that kind of order. So I will be honest: I think it shows that Estonia is a very democratic, transparent, very strong rule of law, where such things cannot happen, and I believe that these things will not happen. Of course, I understand that the political axis of your question is the question of who is stronger, whose government we have. That's understandable, isn't that what you have to ask in the opposition? I can't blame you for that. But there is also a very serious substantive issue on your question. And this is a matter of labour, as you said: IT, construction, agriculture. You're saying there's a need for additional personnel. However, with the additional workforce, it is not zero. In any case, additional labour is available in Estonia; there is also additional labour from third countries. If we leave the corona virus aside for a moment, the basis for additional labour has not been changed. The only thing that's changed is that certain boundaries are closed. And this has been the overall position or position of the European Union. Yes, you could now say yes to me, and you will also say that bilateral agreements can be made. Finland has made such an agreement with Ukraine as well as with some other countries. Yes, Estonia could also do this theoretically. We have taken the second step. We have extended the permit to work in the agricultural sector until 31 July. But this issue of additional labour, such as the issue of skilled labour, is used by Estonian companies, who have long-distance or long-distance drivers, by a large number of third-country workers. In fact, we still have to work to get the borders back open and a normal life restored as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U85	Hanno Pevkur, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U86	First of all, a political order. I have no other interpretation of it than both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior have used the expressions 'we have looked into these companies' and 'I look at the annual reports'. After all, it follows that it is specifically, specifically, allowed to look at a narrow number of companies in a narrow sector. And that reminds me very much of the political order, and consequently the question was. But perhaps you will still give your message to Estonian entrepreneurs, try to make it clear once again. I have no doubt that you are stronger than Mart Helme and Martin Helme in any case. You are the Prime Minister, they are only ministers of your government, and your word must be paid. And it will. That's why I'm giving you this opportunity again. If you tell Estonian entrepreneurs in the IT, construction and agricultural sectors that it is perfectly normal to use foreign labour, and the Estonian government does not create obstacles when it is temporarily necessary to use foreign labour, I believe that this message will also reach the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance and they will not use their subordinates to bully Estonian entrepreneurs in any way, be it the police or the tax administration. So use the opportunity to say it now and instil confidence in Estonian entrepreneurs that foreign labour can be used if necessary and Estonian entrepreneurs can also get temporary work, for example, a nicely done strawberry harvesting during the summer period and a political order to repress them in Estonia will not come.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U87	Thank you for your question. Once again, when the Minister of Finance acts and says that there are problems in some sector, I consider it positive, not negative. I'd rather say if he didn't deal with the tax hole, the issue of tax fraud, it would be negative. And we'll go back in time. My former partner, Mr. Ligi, a competitor, I really must support him now. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi has pointed out in 2013 that tax fraud on the fuel market is an extremely serious issue. His quote is this: 'I would like tougher and stronger action and agreements on this subject. This is a very embarrassing situation that is now. ' I ask if it was a threat from the Minister of Finance. I don't think so. I think that, in fact, everyone in the Republic of Estonia can draw attention to the problems, regardless of who holds the office. Even gets a minister, and it's very good that it is. But it is certainly inappropriate if, for example, the minister points the finger at a particular legal person, a particular company party. However, problems in the sector can be highlighted. And this has been done before, the same example since 2013. After all, I have told you a very specific message: there has been no change in the basis for using foreign labour. If we cross the corona crisis at one point, the borders will be open again. Today, foreign labour is in Estonia either way, it is a fact. But, Mr. Pevkur, we can't get over or around... Of course, this ideological discussion is very interesting. I say back to you from here: doing everything to ensure that the people of Estonia also get jobs in Estonia is also the responsibility of the government. It is also the duty of every minister, be it the Minister of the Interior, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance or some other minister. And unemployment is rising strongly, people are becoming more and more unemployed. It is, of course, our interest to get our people back to the labour market. In any case, this is our interest, and there is no need to feel any false shame here. However, as I have given you an example in replying to your previous question, there are certainly some specific sectors where skilled labour is needed and where workers are really needed from third countries as well. And they need to be opened up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U88	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U89	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The funding supervisors have a dispute with your party, and the strawberry pickers are protesting against the government's steps. In the first case, funding supervisors will be disbanded, in the second case, the tax administration will be sent to strawberry pickers as a repressive body, which it should not actually be. Maybe it's a coincidence, maybe it's a coincidence, but it looks like a pattern to me. The tax hole must, of course, be dealt with by the Minister of Finance, but it should not be the case that, if someone publicly dares to speak against the actions of the government, it is precisely the payment of his taxes that will be particularly dealt with. When a working man, Urmas, repaired the summer house of the Minister of Finance, as he said here in front of all of us, he was not interested in the fact that Urmas, the working man, also estimated by the Minister of Finance, created a tax hole. But that's it. It is not true, by the way, that the procedure for working with foreigners in Estonia has not been changed. Today, we have a draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the government on the table, also in the coming weeks, such as Bill 145. But I don't want to ask about that either. My question is very simple. I visited 30 companies in my constituency in Lääne-Virumaa before the elections, and 29 of them have employees from Ukraine or some other so-called third country, some more, some less. But everywhere it is said that these people are important to them and they are growing the economy of Lääne-Virumaa, they are important both in employment and in general. My question is: what is the message to these people in a situation where Mart Helme has declared them all essentially persona non grata? Are these people needed by Estonia or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U90	Mr. Clothes! You're demonstrating the master class of populism, and that's where I'm gonna fall for you. Once again, you claim that the monitoring of political parties' funding will be terminated. You're not gonna stop, you're gonna understand, you're a smart person, you're a man who's seen life! This task is assigned to the National Audit Office. But you're not saying that because you know it doesn't fit in your sentence, it doesn't fit in the press release of the Reform Party. But that's the way it is. The task is given to a higher level, given to a new level where more resources are available. But that's not what you're saying. At the same time, I must admit that these populist titles of yours have brought you results. Can't deny they've actually brought you results. Look at the support of your party, it's remarkable. Now, what do you say to these 29 companies in Lääne-Virumaa? It's very sweet that you're worried about your constituency. I hope that you did not only go to these 29 companies before the elections, but you have also been there since the elections. I believe you've done this, you're a diligent communicator. Point 1: We have not sent out all the foreign workers and we are not planning to do so. Now, to be punctual, I say you are right, we really have changed the principles of foreign labour in certain respects, and you are right that this is also on the agenda this week. So I'm sure you'll be good at 1:0! But I'm talking about general principles that we haven't changed. We have not changed the general principles. With the exception of the corona virus, everything will be the same and will remain so in the future, according to the immediate plans. I agree with you: very many companies, of course, employ workers from Ukraine or other third countries. Thanks to this, these companies will remain on the water, will not go bankrupt, and it will give us the chance that our Estonian people will also get a job in them. I consider this to be very important, and I consider it very important to build on it. I think it is important to try to keep balance. However, we must not forget the other side. Why don't you go ask the heads of these 29 companies today, they've had to make tough decisions, they've had to lay people off. These are our Estonian people, these are your voters, Mr. Clothes. And it is your duty, as well as mine, to make every effort to restore the economy to the recovery of the private sector, so that people can quickly get back to work and not work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U91	Thank you. I thank the members of the Riigikogu for their questions and the honourable ministers for their answers. Today's Question Time is over. And let it sound like a gazette!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U92	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 16th working week session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U93	Thank you, good Chairman! Thank you, good colleagues. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Central Party of Estonia and the Group of Isamaa, I am transferring the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. Its main objective relates to tobacco liquids, their exemption from excise duty. The situation is already such that the administration of this tax is much more expensive than the revenue it generates. So there's a perfectly reasonable bill. I hope that the grand hall of the Riigikogu will support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U94	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer the drafts. I have adopted a bill on behalf of the management board, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu processes it in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U95	Let's go to today's agenda. Yesterday we did not have the first reading of the draft Act on Fire Safety and the amendment of other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic in the country where the Commission rapporteur answered questions from members of the Riigikogu. To answer your questions, please have a chair called Toomas Kivimägi. The questioning was interrupted when the questioner was Helmen Kütt and Vilja Toomas was registered next. So let's get on with it. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U96	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The rapporteur from the Commission. I have not changed my question, which arose after your very thorough review yesterday, as well as the presentation by the Minister. The question is the same. I have seen that there are no entirely environmental organisations in the table of coordination and opinions. There is an alliance of cities and so on, but the environmentalists have not been asked for an opinion on this important bill. Did you talk about this in the Commission, and do you intend to ask them for an opinion for a second reading? It is still a very important draft for them that concerns the bogs and so on. They could also give their opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U97	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for its thoroughness in deepening fire safety. The draft is dealt with at first reading for two days in a row; this is rarely the case. But if you answer this question, of course, I think that the Committee on Legal Affairs is prepared to consider it in order to ask for the opinion of local governments' umbrella organisations on this. However, it is certainly important to note that it is not burning in unlimited areas. These are still designated landscape protected areas and then the training fields of the Defence League and the Defence Forces. Only they are allowed to burn a certain amount, either for the purpose of restoring natural diversity or for the purpose of fire safety. In fact, these territories are not huge; they are a relatively small part of the territory of Estonia. Perhaps once again, it is permitted in protected areas and training areas of the Defence Forces and the Defence League.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U98	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U99	Thank you. I also recall yesterday's debate and my question is driven by the debate that has taken place. If we give a local fire department the right to coordinate construction projects and to issue building permits, if we give him the right to control them also for small houses, not only for summer homes and garden houses and other buildings, then I still wonder whether a local government specialist can also grant a building permit for the construction of a dwelling. While we were discussing buildings recently erected without permission at the Tallinn Council, the assistant mayor did not hide that there are indeed many dwellings in Tallinn that are not authorised. If we now give a local government specialist the right to grant permission to build and license are not taken and no assessment of the fire safety specialist is required at all, are we not going to create a dangerous situation? We could, however, break up houses and cottages, sheds, garages, etc. Did the Commission mention this, and what is your personal opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U100	Thank you, very respectable questioner. There was no in-depth discussion in the Commission on this issue. However, as regards the granting of a building permit and authorisation, this competence is in fact already in place by the local authorities. This bill also aims to give local authorities competence to coordinate on behalf of the Rescue Board. That's the question. And indeed, as you rightly pointed out, not only in the case of secondary buildings, but also in the case of residential buildings, in the case of summer homes, in the case of auxiliary buildings. But the local government gets this option just because it's his chance, it's not an obligation. The possibility arises for those municipalities who are able to give this coordination on behalf of the Rescue Board. In the meantime, Deputy Secretary-General Viola Murd explained what was said yesterday, whether it also requires any additional certification or additional training for the construction adviser of the city or municipality. No such certificate of competence is currently required. It is based on the fact that if the construction advisor of the municipality or city has the competence to check compliance with the safety requirements in force in general construction, he/she is also prepared and authorised to provide such coordination on behalf of the Rescue Board. At the same time, the Rescue Board has written that they are ready to provide training to those municipalities that wish to acquire such competence. But I note once again: indeed, it is still only an opportunity, not an obligation for the municipalities. This concerns only those municipalities that wish to do so. As was said yesterday, it is certainly very convenient from the point of view of the client or wishing to build, that one coordination is less and that he will receive the necessary coordination from one place. He doesn't have to ask the Rescue Board separately. But I recall that both the representative of the EKRE and the representative of the Fatherland on the Committee on Legal Affairs were also a little concerned about whether this was once too liberal and whether it could not be that acquaintances would be used and that this coordination would be easier than the Rescue Board. So I think this is one of the weighing points. My personal opinion is that maybe to do it in two stages: maybe to stop giving this competence to homes for the first time and to limit itself to summer homes, garden houses and other such buildings and to look at how it works for a few years. And if it works well enough, perhaps extend the competence of local governments to residential buildings as well. It's just my personal position. However, since there has been much talk about this fear, this issue is for consideration in the drafting of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U101	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U102	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I got some of the information I expected from your answer just a moment ago. But my question. Yes, indeed, the competence of fire safety experts must then emerge in the local self-government. But what about higher fire safety requirements for buildings, i.e. public buildings: schools, hospitals, etc.? Will their expertise also come within the competence of the local government rather than remain with the Rescue Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U103	Thank you, Honourable Asker. There is no intention to grant such a mandate to the local government pursuant to this draft. It clearly states that these are only residential buildings, cottages and ancillary buildings. In the case of public buildings, the coordination of the Rescue Board remains mandatory; such a mandate cannot be obtained by local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U104	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U105	Thank you. During the debate, was it also discussed how many additional competences could be added to the local government staff? I'm not quite sure it's a very promising road. Officials already have enough of this required polyfunctionality in a forced situation and this could in fact lead to the weakening of their "special" powers. Was this subject at all under discussion, or do you think it is not a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U106	Ladies and gentlemen, this was not directly discussed in the Commission, but yesterday I was somewhat concerned with this issue. If this were an obligation for the municipality, it would clearly have to be accompanied by certain financial resources. In my understanding, one reason why they want to do this is that they want to reduce somewhat the burden on the specialists in the Rescue Board so that they can focus on other topics. Thus, on the one hand, someone will have less work in this area and someone will have more work. So, in principle, it should be compensated for by the local government. I think that is also the subject of the debate. Yes, the state can say, at this point in time, that it is voluntary, that it does not have to do this if you want to. But I do not think that those municipalities who are prepared to assume this responsibility should be punished. In fact, consideration could be given to compensating for this work through the local government budget. That would be justified in every way. We understand that a rescue officer doesn't have to be burdened by every tree shed, he doesn't have to give that coordination. But if this work is done by a rescue officer or, let's say, a local government official instead of a state, it would quite logical that it would, to some extent, be reflected in the formation of the local government budget. The state could give the local government some money for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U107	Thank you, dear waitress, for speaking so interestingly on this subject that we had enough to discuss for two days. But there are no more questions for you. Now I'm opening negotiations. Peeter Ernits on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U108	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is very good, and it also concerns me personally from a number of points. It's actually a bill of 50 people killed in the fire. And this is largely the problem and draft of Tartu County in my constituency. Ten out of 50 have died in flames in Tartu County. In Tartu County, ten times more people die in fire than in Võrumaa and Põlva County, five times more than in Pärnumaa and Valgamaa, two and a half times more than in Harju County. Yes, indeed, Ida-Virumaa is also there above, but this has not happened in some regions of Läänemaa, Järvamaa and Hiiumaa in at least recent years. But for these about 50 people, the epicenter has been located in Tartu County. The hottest place in this sense is the tiny municipality of Nõo. So Tartumaa is both the main tanner of the current hot strawberry war, as the main part of strawberry growers is operating there, as well as the land of fire deaths. Strangely enough, Tartu County is a very prosperous country, but experts have explained to me that it is about contrasts. Killing in fire is primarily the fate of the poorest and the weakest. If you look at the state of Tartu, I think it is interesting for everyone to know that there are 352 "red homes" in Tartu County, these are homes where the flames can immediately develop and 426 "yellow homes." I'm not talking about black homes, they're hopeless. But fortunately, there are fewer. Knowing this whole situation, I decided to direct most of last year's so-called 'roof money' to Tartu County precisely to improve this situation. Let's call it a pilot project, see what the end of the year is. The result is that different carbon monoxide sensors have now been distributed, especially to older people, many children, people with disabilities, and also to hearing impaired people. I do not know what will come of this, but I very much hope that this situation will improve and that the leadership of Tartu County, which has been around for years, will disappear. But, yeah, that's one half of the bill. As the Minister of the Interior said, the carbon monoxide sensor is actually very important. I can't see the whining, but he's definitely gonna kill. The other side of the bill is nature conservation, which the Minister of the Interior couldn't say much about, but I can tell you more. A few days ago, on the weekend, Klooga burned a bog. I went there both evenings and early mornings and yesterday. Strangely enough, I'm not a pyromaniac, but my heart rejoiced. Why? Because the Klooga bog is Estonia's largest and most representative mooring. It is located on the Defence Forces' polygon, and also during the Russian era it was sometimes burned there. And because of that, it's an extremely rare bog. By the way, it characterizes the Scottish national landscape, it's preserved. During the Estonian era, Estonian soldiers have not caused a fire there. And now the urgent question is that every once in a while, controlled fires could be performed so that this rare mooring with Klooga bog is 124 hectares large, the largest in Estonia and the most representative of all will be preserved in the future. When heather blooms, it's gorgeous. That's the background to this bill. Yes, indeed, there are some places in Kõrvemaa, such heaths. And in the case of heaths, the controlled fires provided for in this bill are important. The Klooga bog fire broke out because the local Russian fishermen probably left the fire unscathed, and then the entire army of our rescue forces had to be diverted, practically all the way to the helicopter, there for two days. But one of the ideas of this bill is to come up against the conservationists to preserve rare communities, especially in places where it comes from heaths and...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U109	Dear waitress, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U110	No, I'm just gonna say a few more sentences. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] They want to do it according to the law. I can tell you that the conservationists will approve of this, even though they may not have been able to do so yet. But the moments that Mr Kivimägi spoke about here can be dimmed by intermediate suggestions for improvement. In any case, a good draft and I would ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U111	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The negotiations are over. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 120. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 17 June, at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U112	Today's second item is the third reading of the Bill 163 of the Government of the Republic Act and the Act amending other laws (Education and Youth Office, Language Inspectorate as Language Administration). Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Priit Sibul on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U113	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, this bill talks about several agencies, one is no less important than the other, but I am talking about what is closer to the heart, and namely the Language Office. Estonian statehood is based on the preservation of language, culture and nationality throughout the ages. The use of the national language in all areas of life is the basis for the survival of our country and nation. For the last 30 years, Fatherland has consistently maintained the principle that Estonian language must be used everywhere. The preservation of Estonian language and culture begins with the small things that affect people's daily lives, but this also concerns our businesses, civil society organisations, local governments and government institutions. The creation of the Language Board helps to protect and develop the Estonian language in all areas of life. While the Language Inspectorate was primarily involved in monitoring, in the long term, the Language Board must become a national competence centre in the design and implementation of language policy. This agency must have broad-based tasks and powers to shape Estonian language policy. It cannot be denied that there have been problems with meeting language requirements in Estonia in local governments, the private sector and public agencies, in the public sector at all. These problems cannot be solved by mere fines or other sanctions. We need a holistic approach that looks at the bigger picture. The precise tasks will be determined by the government, but in my view, the Language Board must have the power to formulate language policies and proposals at the legislative level and in their implementation. The language authority must become a positive mission authority whose main task is to maintain and develop the language policy of our nation state and, with it, to maintain our national culture. In November 2019, the Council of the Fatherland came forward with the initiative to establish the Language Board. I am pleased to note that today's draft will bring us a step closer to this goal. Over the years, we have contributed to learning the Estonian language of adults, improving the control of compliance with language requirements and the transition to education in Estonian in different municipalities. At the same time, it is clear that the number of challenges is enormous. Estonia has become an immigration country, which undoubtedly affects our language space, and we also need to overcome various problems in order to ensure higher education in Estonian and the success of the Estonian language as a digital language. Given the challenges facing Estonia, a comprehensive approach to language policy is essential. The language profession will have a huge role to play in this. Good luck to him and to us in contributing to this activity and in demanding monitoring! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U114	Thank you. On behalf of the Heidy Purga Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When the Committee on Culture started discussing the draft law on the new agencies to be created, the main concerns of the Reform Party were first the continuation of the Estonian Language Institute and, in the case of the Estonian Education and Youth Board, the dispersal of topics in the youth field between the different departments. The rewording of the main tasks of the Institute of the Estonian Language and the possible duplication and re-shaping of their long-term core business, which left a clear understanding that the Institute of the Estonian Language is in a fragile situation, and that their ongoing work is threatened by destruction, which is not in line with the results of previous studies, with recommendations to keep language organisation and care, i.e. the development of the Estonian language separate from supervision, language policy and the implementation of language policy. Nor would the plan have been in line with the practice of language management and language policy in other European countries. The Institute of Estonian Language deals with the maintenance, organisation and development of Estonian written language and the preparation and updating of dictionaries and databases that are important for the Estonian state and Estonian culture. This includes ensuring that the standards of written language are complied with, compiling a dictionary dictionaries and numerous other dictionaries, offering public free language advice, including in terms of language skills and euro-language, developing speech synthesis that allows sounding of texts, as well as other tasks related to the organisation of Estonian language learning. There is no need to break what works well, especially in an area as sensitive and important as the Estonian language. Despite the hecticness of the process, the Institute of the Estonian Language and the Language Board, which is being created, obtained their basic goals and tasks in an efficient and respectful co-operation with each other, and was established in a friendly atmosphere, not with the help of the Ministry. In addition, during the discussion of the draft, we were concerned about the possible fragmentation of the youth field between the different divisions of the new Education and Youth Agency to be created. There were quite a number of complaints at the beginning. The Estonian Youth Association also stressed the need to create a separate structural unit for the youth sector in the establishment of the joint office. This focus is very important. We, too, believe that in addition to achieving the objectives, each young individual must remain in focus so that young people have the opportunity to lead themselves, interact with what is happening in society and be involved in representative democracy. The Association of Estonian Student Unions initially expressed deep frustration at the process, and this is precisely because of another disregard for good practice of inclusion. Their main concern was to check the design of curricula and the quality of higher education and vocational education at the upcoming Education and Youth Office. This therefore has a direct impact on students in the institutional reform agenda. The ECL represents students studying in the Republic of Estonia and must be involved to the maximum extent in the creation of the UT process. Despite these difficulties or difficult places, it can be concluded that all the major weak links in the formation of new agencies became stronger during the various readings of the draft, became clearer, negotiated. The Estonian Reform Party Group supports the completion of the third reading of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U116	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 163 and we will go to it. I would like to draw the members of the Riigikogu's attention to the need for a majority of the members of the Riigikogu to adopt the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 163. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 2 against, 2 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U117	Today's third item is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law on the granting of international protection to aliens (prevention of mass immigration). Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U118	I have a procedural question, totally personal. Maybe I've missed something, but why have we started putting such assessments in the headlines of the law? So far, the drafts have had different titles and numbers, and now they add slogans. Is this something to do with the Rules of Procedure or with the practice of committees? And I understand that even at the government level, this bill has been corrected for this slogan. What does that mean? It's a new thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U119	The Rules of Procedure Act has not changed and does not regulate it, but indeed such practice has arisen. We need to discuss whether this is feasible or not. We need to discuss this, it may not be necessary. Well, no one has any more procedural questions. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 110 on the draft, and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the drive-out and driving ban law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law amending the law granting international protection to an alien 110. Please take a stand and vote. 64 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 1 against, 2 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U120	The fourth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft, and we are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the final vote? Looks like we can. I am voting on the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 135. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, one against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U121	Let's move on to today's agenda. The fifth item is the review of the uniform application of judicial order, justice and law. The rapporteur is Villu Kõve, President of the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! I will present the procedure for dealing with this item. First, the presentation of the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve, is up to 30 minutes, then every member of the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to ask the rapporteur a question and, finally, the subsequent negotiations, where representatives of the political groups may speak. I would like to ask for a chair of speech by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The law obliges the Chairman of the Supreme Court to inform you once a year about the uniform application of court orders, justice and laws. In principle, I could sum up my report with one sentence that justice is done in accordance with the procedure, and then end it. But I'm not gonna do it that easy. I have a long presentation, I'll try not to read it to you literally, it's written in text, and to highlight the main points a little bit shorter. A year ago, when I was doing my last presentation here, I really didn't know what would be the subject of this year's presentation. I didn't know that much would change in a year, that we'd be hit by such social shocks, an emergency situation, a whole new relationship. The judicial system has not been left untouched by them, as has any other society. Today, I will try to give you an overview first of all of how the judicial system has gone in a year at all, then I will specifically talk about the emergency situation and the work of the courts in emergency situations and about the problems that have been revealed in this regard, how it has been done, and, finally, some ideas-proposals to the legislator, also wishes-asks from the judiciary. I told you once, but I would also stress that justice and trial in Estonia also worked during an emergency situation. Fair and objective justice, court settlement in a reasonable period of time in general, we have worked. The speed and digitalisation of our judicial system and court proceedings is one of the best in Europe. From time to time, of course, certain tar drops appear in the media, individual cases where problems with the time of proceedings or access to the public have been identified. These are almost exclusively all major criminal cases, which, however, represent a negligible percentage of the total volume of the case. So it would not be right to draw very large conclusions from their surface. This does not mean, however, that the system can not be made better and more efficient. During this year, one important work in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the court administration council and the Supreme Court has had to think about how to optimise the use of the resources available to the courts of both the court network and the judicial staff. More specifically, I have taken matters of my heart such as the unequal distribution of the workload between Estonian courts, including the question of the division of labour between judges and judicial officials, their qualifications and specialisation, as well as digital court proceedings and, more specifically, the enhancement of criminal proceedings, general proceedings. These issues have been accompanied by public access to justice, access to judicial material over the course of the year. In an emergency, a number of other things have been amplified. First of all, the division of the workload between courts. The courts are such specific public authorities, which are already divided by region in Estonia according to the constitution. In each region, the courts deal with cases in their own region. And this has led to the fact that there are certain inequalities in the burden on the courts. Harju County Court, which deals mainly with Tallinn's affairs, has concentrated more work and the judge's average burden is certainly greater than in other court areas. After all, economic activity is concentrated in Tallinn. This has led to a build-up of certain things and to some stretching, and the judges there may sense injustice. At the same time, according to the law, it is not possible to share things simply in such a way that we can solve things that have accumulated in Harju County Court in Kuressaare, Võru, Valga or Narva. That's not the law. It is disputed whether the Constitution will allow this. Still, we have wondered what could be done. We can solve a lot of things now through video sessions and also in writing more and more, people do not have to travel so much. And there have been different ideas under discussion, up to the most extreme solution, that all Estonian courts, at least the county courts, should be formally grouped into one court, one court. It doesn't necessarily mean losing courthouses, but it would mean sharing things around. Or maybe trying to keep the courts from sharing things more flexibly between them. This has been discussed and these discussions continue. The first draft is already here in the Riigikogu. It provides for procedural visits by judges so that, in the event of a heavy workload, there is a possibility of redistribution and pensionable judges can be present until the end of the proceedings. We will see how these changes will work. We hope that further proposals will soon reach you. As far as staff is concerned, yes, the question is how many judges we need, how many court officials, whether there must be a personal Advocate General and Secretary for each judge. This has also been the subject of last year's debate. There are certainly no simple and quick solutions here, we need to think about it and we need to discuss it, because if we make maybe hasty decisions, then the consequences may be bad and things may get a little longer. A separate subject is specialisation and through it the inclusion of additional competences in complex matters. In smaller courthouses, however, this is often not possible, where people have to solve all the things that come in. Possible redistribution would allow specific judges to specialise. There are two specific issues that I had to deal with last year and which attracted extra attention. Firstly, the stretching of large criminal cases at the Harju County Court, which reached the media by various channels, but already before the media, the Chairman of the Supreme Court received signals on several matters that the retirement of judges has led to such a story that things remain undisputed. The big things have piled up in the first place and there were questions about which the Minister of Justice, at the request of the President of the Supreme Court, initiated a supervisory procedure at the Harju County Court to explain why these criminal cases are dragging on. Today it has ended with a report which I believe has made a number of very sensible proposals on how to change the organisation of work, and it has also pointed out how to improve criminal procedures by legislative means so that things move faster without any violation of fundamental rights. I hope that these thoughts will reach the legislator at some point. That was one thing. Another issue raised by the media is the public of the proceedings. It was the courts that either closed the hearings or forbade journalists from publishing information about them, as well as restricting access to the files. As this topic got hot, we organised a round table on this subject, we mapped out the problems and we proposed clearer legislative solutions, which the Ministry of Justice hopefully will soon bring before the Riigikogu so that it is clear who can prohibit what and who can get acquainted with it. So, what else can we say about the organisational aspects of the judicial process? We have tried to open up the courts more, bring people closer, organise the communication management of the courts. The Office shall have a Joint Communication Manager at all levels of the Court, who shall coordinate the activities of the judicial press representatives. Hopefully, we'll have better communication all the time. As a whole, our judicial system is characterised by a generational exchange. A lot of judges are retiring, a lot of new ones are coming. This is the case in the Supreme Court, but even more so in lower courts. We have a competition ahead of us, which should result in nine new judges taking office. Now, an extra topic we have had to digitise the procedure. 'Extra' because, in an emergency situation, the need for these solutions to be better has come into particular attention. This year, we organised a full House of Judges to discuss this issue and it discussed problems up to whether automated procedures and perhaps artificial intelligence could also be applied in the judicial system and in the judicial administration. The Courts Yearbook is dedicated to this. If you look at the activities of the Supreme Court as an institution, the Supreme Court has already had two major events this year. On 14 January 2020, 100 years passed from the first sitting of the Supreme Court. We had a very festive occasion. Secondly, for the Supreme Court it is very important that we were able to move back to our renovated house. It was at the very beginning of an emergency, at a rather difficult moment. We thank the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu here, thanks to whom it was possible that this building was renovated. As regards the work of the Supreme Court, the number of things entering the Supreme Court gradually increases. Not crazy yet, but you can see the growth. In the eyes of the legislator, the most interesting things are probably constitutional monitoring, which last year, together with the electoral appeals, was 45 in total. In eight cases, the most well-known were the Aliens Act, the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces and the regulations of the Narva City Council concerning social services. There are currently four constitutional monitoring cases before the Supreme Court and the issue of pension reform that we have in the proceedings can be resolved. The Supreme Court deals with all the matters that come into our hands with the necessary thoroughness and seriousness. Now for the emergency. The courts were also caught by the emergency situation unexpectedly, and as a shock, it came. Many things suddenly didn't work out, and for a moment, there was some form of suspension, how to continue. At the same time, in my opinion, the judicial system gathered itself quickly and the understanding that the rule of law requires the judicial system to function even in times of emergency, however, came to everyone's attention. At the beginning, we also had a position in the system that we would close our houses and end our houses at all, see how we can proceed, and that the interests of human health should first and foremost be respected. But we've been trying to compromise. In this respect, we are different from the courts of several countries. For example, it has turned out that in a number of European countries, courts were either closed at all or there were very many restrictions on justice. Our advantage compared to many other countries is the great digitalisation that saved us and the extensive introduction of a written procedure. If physical hearings were still needed, it would have been much more complicated. I would point out that the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice also closed their doors and ceased to function during the pandemic. No courthouse door was closed in our judicial system. There's been a bottleneck. And they came out of the fact that, in an emergency, the law does not provide for any distinction in court proceedings. So, on the one hand, people were not allowed to gather, they were told to be careful, but on the other hand, the legislator had prescribed us very fast procedural deadlines and there were no differences in the organisation of procedures. Oral sessions had to be held by law in many matters, people had to be heard, paperwork, paper files, postal items. An extra problem was the communication with prisoners in criminal matters, who needed to be brought to trial, either from prison or from a detention facility, where people were not released. The reason was they could bring the virus to the house. This led to a number of complex situations, which were mainly resolved. At the same time, the courts reacted quickly and switched to a number of written procedures and video sessions. The problem arose in cases where the law provided that only a video bridge could be used with the consent of the accused. Yes, now the Riigikogu has relaxed it by law, but there are basically still problems. In civil matters, nursing homes were an extra problem. In civil matters, there is a requirement that people in nursing homes and psychiatric hospitals who do not want to do so must be dealt with on an ongoing basis. The judges have to go once a year to check on these people. They can't stay there for more than a year without a court order. And, of course, as you understand, there was still a real problem. If the most virally dangerous and most problematic place is a nursing home, then the courts really had choices as to whether they would comply with the law that requires them to go on the ground to listen to these people. Some used video solutions, which were in some sense questionable in this case, and maybe some things were not done in the interests of human health, it has to be admitted. However, such choices were made before the judges because there were no specific rules in the law for the emergency situation. And although there were thoughts made by the Ministry of Justice to suspend the time limits for proceedings and somehow to regulate this situation, they unfortunately could not be included in the law. The judicial system was more of a self-regulation route. On the initiative of the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice, the Court of Justice's Advisory Board issued recommendations on how the law could be understood during an emergency, and these recommendations have been followed to a lesser or greater extent, I hope. Remote work, digital solutions, video sessions were implemented. The most painful and problem-free situation was the situation in administrative courts, where the digital procedure has been the biggest anyway, and also in circuit courts where there were not many oral sessions. The most difficult is undoubtedly the case of large criminal cases where there have been physical hearings, which is inevitable. Courthouses were left open. Working hours were reduced, people's access was restricted, but basically they remained open and procedural procedures were still taking place, although there were risks and problems. Things were postponed for the time being. At first, no protective measures could be taken in court, almost no one in the country had them, nor were there in courts. Digital abilities also sometimes crossed stones and stumps. The videoconferencing equipment was not modern, the software was not or was not compatible, the parties to the proceedings did not have the necessary access or could not use it or simply were not physically able to use it. There was a problem with the impounds, they couldn't secure the video tags. But all in all, we've been through an emergency, and judging by the numbers, we're pretty good. The feedback that has come from the chairmen of the courts has also been very optimistic. The Attorney General and the Attorney General's Office have admitted that the courts are still working. There have been problems with uneven practice and, of course, with the technical organisation of video sessions, but basically there has been no downtime. If the hearings could not be held and had to be postponed, written procedures were carried out instead. Statistics also show that the performance of the courts did not actually decline during the emergency situation, work was carried out further. True, you can see certain problems. Some major hearings have been postponed. In terms of number of things, performance has not fallen, but these big sessions must still be held and possibly just more work to do during the summer. In summary, we can see that our courts have managed the emergency situation in a flexible and more likely way than in many other European countries. At least for now, there is reason to say so commendably. What happens now that the emergency is over? The threat of infection has not disappeared and hearings still have to be held. Well, it's complicated. They've either tried to move away from the house or try to keep a distance, set up partitions in court, so that the hearings could still take place. Of course, efforts are being made to improve the organisation of video sessions. Of course, we also want the country to have an efficient, secure and well-functioning video solution, a video platform that would allow hearings to be held better than so far. But we've been working on it, and we can't really complain about it. It has been a problem to ensure the presence of a lawyer in criminal matters so that he can also communicate privately with the protected person. This has created problems for video bridges in their own right. You have to think about how to do it better. As a whole, however, the resolution of things has become much more virtual than it has been so far. And I think it's gonna stay that way now, after the emergency has ended. Well, there's a direction to it in the perspective. The second question, of course, arises immediately: how will public access be ensured? The interests of the public must also be ensured when the matter is moving out of the courtroom. Thoughts have been developed on how the video bridge could be expanded if necessary. Perhaps the time has come to initiate a discussion on, for example, the public transmission of hearings on the Internet, the possibility of being present there. There isn't one right now. Now, how now and what concerns do we hope to resolve? Yes, technical concerns about how to organise work better when a possible second wave of the virus comes. How well we're ready for this, we can't quite say it to the end. But things that have been dealt with in the long run must go on. The possibility of flexible redistribution of the above-mentioned judicial resources must be further addressed, digital legal proceedings must be further developed, video sessions should be held and the public of judicial proceedings must also be ensured. These could be topics that could be taken forward. What's in front of us? At the moment, it seems that we are facing a recession, and this will be reflected immediately in litigation. It has to be acknowledged that the share of civil matters already increased significantly in 2019. The increase in the number of payment orders is particularly worrying. Payment orders are the simplest, small financial claims to be settled in a simple manner. Their number has increased by 14.9% over the year. These are the most common small debts, which show that payment problems exist. And that was before the corona, this slope started earlier. What happens now, we don't know how to predict it. You'd think there'd be more of these survival disputes. If there is still an increase in the number of disputes arising from employment contracts, plus all these issues of redundancy, loans, leases, utility payments, maintenance payments, taxes, it can also be predicted that the number of crimes against property will increase after a little while. This is what the cycle has been like before, and it can happen this time. Of course, we hope to do better. But yes, we're not sure if the courts can handle the accumulation of things very well. We are already trying to take the necessary measures to spread the burden more evenly. I would like to put it to the legislator's heart that if you start cutting something for the courts, I say this proactively, just in case, it is a request to think that courts are institutions whose work is usually increasing during the economic crisis. They are not going to work, but they are going to work on the contrary: the amount of work is going to increase. I am not talking here about the salaries of judges and high-level judicial officers, but precisely about the lower-level judicial staff: the level of income of the secretaries of the hearing, and especially the interpreters, is critically low. Let's hope there's some way we can find a solution. As far as judges are concerned, I am not talking about other guarantees, but the disability pension was taken from judges at one point, you can say, behind your back. Maybe it could be restored. This legislative amendment will hopefully also be voted on by the Riigikogu. Last year, I mentioned a number of things that I think could be dealt with in order to make judicial proceedings more effective and quicker. I am not going to read them again, but I would like to draw attention once again to the conciliation procedure, particularly in family matters and neighbouring disputes. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the insolvency review and the related possible shortening of the time limits for the discharge of debts. If you want to help someone, there are opportunities to help someone more easily. Limitation periods and discharge periods for people who have fallen into default without their own guilt could be an issue that could also be dealt with by the legislator. I specifically mention the subject of minimum living, which we have to do with the minimum wage. It is not difficult to predict that, in times of economic downturn, people will not be able to pay minimum living costs. In many regions, even so far, it has not been possible to pay, especially in South Estonia. However, if there is currently a fixed minimum subsistence rate in the case law, this means that there will be a mass coming to court to change it and it will pile up the courts with a job that can be kept out of it by law. If you want to prevent a problem, I will give you a request to address it. The maintenance system should also be simplified. In order for people to have a living, it is not necessary to go to court first, as the current law requires. Maintenance aid should reach people even without passing the trial, at least in certain cases. The package, which entered into force on 17 May 2020, provided some relief in criminal proceedings, but not particularly in other proceedings. So we're still waiting for these solutions. As far as criminal proceedings are concerned, if what really happens is that we are going to have a second wave of the virus in autumn and we still have to deal with major criminal cases at the hearings, as he is now the law that the Riigikogu passed and which came into force in May, it may be predicted that these things will now run together. It is simply not possible to hold these sessions with a large number of people like this. The capacity to hold video sessions, as well as the legislative guarantees, do not currently exist. The Ministry of Justice has been informed about this, and I hope that they will give priority to this, so that legislative changes concerning criminal proceedings can be brought before the Riigikogu more quickly, rather than waiting for several years. We urgently need these changes so that we can tighten the proceedings in criminal proceedings and extend the possibility of video sessions. A few more things. There are very many legal deadlines for all kinds of legal proceedings. The special situation pointed out that they were impossible to follow, but they were often impossible or unreasonable to follow in normal circumstances. Let me give you two examples. I do not know of a country in Europe where the enforcement of the action must be resolved on the next working day. At the same time, there are claims that the whole dispute must be dealt with, the evidence assessed, the perspective looked at and the reasons for all this. It's unrealistic, and then it'll be halfway there. And an even better example is in the case of bankruptcy: the law requires a forced hearing ten days after the application has been filed. I guess that's the law. And that was also true during an emergency. In fact, there is no need for a hearing at all, it could be done flexibly, but the law states: let it be a sitting. There are problems that could be solved relatively easily by liberalising the rules. It's the same annual review of people in nursing homes. In the beginning, in the 2006 TsMS, it was probably three years, if not five, then it was converted into an annual commitment. I think it's unreasonable. You don't have to go there every year to review, it's a waste of resources in many cases. A three-year forced review is quite enough, at least, in my opinion. Digital judicial procedures should be better regulated at law level. At the moment, it turned out, in an emergency, that the digital case and the procedure are still written in the gaze of acts that are relatively inferior to the law; it has been regulated since then; the law does not support it enough. So the law should also be helped in this respect, all procedural laws. Similarly, more widespread use of video sessions could be sought, in particular in criminal proceedings. I have also brought here one proposal which emerged from the emergency situation and which could be made conceivable in the case of the second wave. There are no grounds for suspension in the enforcement procedure. For example, one of the most radically affecting people is eviction. If in an emergency, the eviction arrives and you don't have anywhere to go and no one protects you, then the situation is bad. In my opinion, it would be right to freeze or at least postpone certain enforcement activities during an emergency situation. That's probably not the way it's supposed to be. Good ambassadors! Our court and justice work in Estonia even during difficult times, and that is how one country should be. Our biggest concern, if you put it together, is how to deal with the large criminal cases that have been pushed to autumn. That's theme number one. And secondly, how to cope with the exponential increase in the number of civil cases brought about by the expected economic downturn. These are the greatest challenges. We hope that we will manage and that the legislator will also contribute to ensuring that the whole regulation is as sound and as good as possible in legislative terms. I wish you strength, strength and health in difficult times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U123	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I want to talk about the infamous partnership law. Time and again, the transitions that try to establish it through the back door appear. In today's session, we will also have the same back door on the table as the attempt to introduce the law. At the proposal of the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, attempts are made to include in the External Action Service Act the term 'involving partner' in addition to 'husband'. Look, we still haven't adopted the 87 implementing acts. How should we reduce this legal cacophony? Could those who dream of it focus on adopting implementing legislation, or should this thing go through the back door as it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U125	As regards the law on partnership, there is, of course, a regrettable legal situation. But it was already programmed into that law when it was passed. In Estonia, as far as I know, there is no law whose implementing rule would sound as if the law would enter into force on that day with implementing legislation. We have laws that say it will enter into force on that day, and there are laws that enter into force with implementing acts. There is no such provision. In short, from the beginning this contradiction and any way to interpret it, someone can always say that it has been misinterpreted. So this situation is, like, inevitable. Of course, however, the situation in which the law has been adopted on the one hand cannot be accepted, nor has it been repealed, but on the other hand there are no necessary implementing rules which the legislator should actually introduce when adopting one law. So what do we do? It is now that, in a sense, the legislator has pushed the matter out of the hands of the court to settle it. And we have to take a stand now. But no matter what the court was supposed to solve it, a part of the Riigikogu could say that you did wrong. That's the background. And if the law has now been interpreted in such a way that it applies, then it is clear that specific implementation disputes will come before the court. They have to be solved somehow. The courts have tried to do so, these cases are not many, but everyone that is, of course, gets huge attention. It's possible that's what these complainers want, and that's what brings it all up. But justice is for all the people here in Estonia and all the applications that come to court, we have to resolve it. It cannot be said that we do not accept the request that we simply do not resolve it. As a result, these things have arisen, and it is my wish and the wish of the courts to the legislator that you decide what you then want. If you want the law to apply, be good and adopt implementing legislation. If you want this law not to exist, you have to repeal it. You could answer that easily.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U126	Thank you. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U127	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, I'm gonna tell Anti to the Polish Forest that there's nothing wrong with the Cohabitation Act. Calm down, you don't have to use it if you don't want to. But I have a question for the President of the Supreme Court. There were quite a lot of thoughts and problems in that report that you brought out, but if you want too much, you're not getting much. And you said that we have exceptional problems with procedural deadlines rather than systemic problems, but I am still asking on the basis of the fact that I am disturbed by such exceptions. We've got flashlights, handcuffs shining far away. A man is cuffed and then followed by a long silence. It's gonna take a lot of time to go to court, the trial's gonna be slowing down, the trial's gonna be slowing down. What are three wishes you would like from us to shorten the time limits for the resolution of criminal cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U128	I have already said that one of the issues I have addressed in this connection was the same information from the Harju County Court that these things really do pile up. It's not normal for us to discuss these things for three years. For several years, we'll do a preliminary investigation, and then the judge will retire, and the new judge will start discussing the matter again. This isn't a normal situation, is it? That is why a review of the criminal proceedings was opened, the act of which appears to be publicly available on the website of the Ministry of Justice. It's got a very thorough record of what you could do. As far as I know, the Ministry of Justice is preparing a package of amendments to the criminal procedure, which has been warmed up for a very long time and everything that has been done there. But it has been a bit of a fine-tuning package, there are all sorts of details polished, but root problems that there are too many sessions and too many, say formalism, have not been solved. I hope that, as a result of this review of criminal proceedings, maybe there are some things that will also come into the bill, at least the Ministry of Justice has promised it. We have also spoken to the Minister several times that this is a priority now and that criminal proceedings must now be dealt with. Everything else we can do for an emergency, but the so-called coercive trial of criminal proceedings in all matters, such extreme evidence, such a waste of resources, a waste of resources in all respects, both in criminal investigations and in court, will lead to a terrible stretching of deadlines. I absolutely agree that it is not normal to have such long deadlines. This must be dealt with, and I hope that the Minister will bring the changes here before you, and you can say your word and make something even better if necessary. But you could ask the Minister to come up with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U129	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Dear President of the Supreme Court! Futurologists have for decades predicted the emergence of a man's wiser mind. It is quite certain that this so-called technological singularity is still far away, but my question was inspired by your positive assessment of the digitalisation of courts in Estonia, but even more so by the fact that you dropped the sentence that artificial intelligence would arrive in court. Would you please describe the role of the robot judges in the future? What disputes could they resolve, and maybe you're offering some perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U131	I would obviously exceed all my competences if I tried to say something specific about that. But this topic was raised in the House of Judges this year. People who developed artificial intelligence also visited us and discussed what could be automated. There are, in fact, simple things like this, namely the organizational work that the secretary is doing in many ways in court today. We actually have some kind of robot judge on the face of a speed camera. In some form he exists: you will get a picture, you will get a paper home and you will pay. Most do not argue about whether a picture has been taken correctly or not. Obviously such automated solutions can still be implemented. However, we must keep an eye on what we can do in this way at all times. Clearly, I can't imagine sitting in front of a robot who decides who to give a child to and how much a living should be paid. In fact, it would be possible to use a computer to calculate specific needs. It's gone to huge mathematics anyway to determine how much money is spent on a child and how much money anyone has. I think it would be possible to make it easier with some kind of automated solutions, maybe artificial intelligence sounds too proud, I don't know. I hope we still have people to understand the law, but there are a number of things that can be automated. I would also like to mention, for example, insolvency tests: for example, an assessment of whether the firm is insolvent or not. We can at least let the machine find some starting point instead of going through and calculating everything. It's happening now, too, but it can all be fixed, I think. I believe that in five or ten years' time, we will have solutions that will help make such things automated. At present, for example, an order for payment in the context of an urgent procedure will be executed and will automatically proceed to the enforcement document and court settlement. There are things like this, but you have to keep an eye on it so it doesn't get out of hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U132	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U133	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Supreme Court, thank you very much for a very understandable overview. I would also say to the Anti Polish forest that the partner accompanying is mostly of the opposite sex. We're not all married, and I don't see why there should be any restrictions. But you said the judges had survived the emergency. I was wondering if the accused and the suspects were. If everything goes through the video bridge, will the protection take place in a detention facility or in a court of law? In court, if my memory doesn't fool me, the referee can decide whether or not the protection will take place via the video bridge. How is protection guaranteed if the accused or suspect is not in direct contact with the lawyer? I can also say that the lawyers wrote a letter to the Legal Affairs Committee that the lawyer should still be close to the accused rather than communicate with him via the video bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U134	In fact, there's some talk about it in the report, I slipped over the subject a little bit to save time. Indeed, lawyers have highlighted this issue, of course, how to guarantee the right of defence. Solutions have also been proposed, such as a chat'it somehow privately with his defender or something like that. However, this is not the case in detention facilities. So that's definitely a problem. But I think there's still a way to solve it, so we don't always have to bring people to court. Should find a smarter solution. I don't have a good idea on the move here. Neither did the lawyers. At least I haven't heard of it. The principle is that we should not withdraw from the oral sitting. That is correct, I also think that an oral hearing is still necessary, but action needs to be focused. Jaurring in court really shouldn't last for weeks or months. At the sitting, we would really discuss the issues that need to be discussed there, which need to be debated. Not that we're reading any evidence two days in advance. Well, that's an exaggerated statement, but basically it is. We shouldn't waste resources. There must be no situation that if one lawyer falls ill just before the hearing, there is nothing else to do on that day and the whole long-term sitting must be postponed. These things should be avoided, but they're happening right now. But I agree that, of course, the accused must be able to communicate privately with his lawyer. This is one of the fundamental rights that must be guaranteed to him. This must also be taken into account when introducing digital solutions. At the moment, we just had to deal with the situation somehow, and now we have to think about how things can be organised in the run. I can't tell you any more right now, but the problem is well-known.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U135	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U136	Thank you. Dear President of the Supreme Court, good Villu! I am deeply convinced that the judicial system, especially the Supreme Court, is the last line of defence for the protection of the Constitution. Looking at this review last year, it is clear that you have had a whole lot of constitutional supervision. I am not going to raise the issue of constitutionality or constitutional court once again, but I ask you to assess the word pair for 'big reasons'. Why am I asking that? We have a draft in the proceedings that talks about amending the law of the National Audit Office. The tasks of the National Audit Office are described in § 133 of the Constitution, which does not provide for the control of legal persons governed by private law, unless the state owns more than half of the ownership of the company. The Supreme Court has come to the conclusion in its time that the control of local governments could perhaps be placed at the National Audit Office. That if there are compelling reasons, it might as well be considered. How do you interpret "big reasons"?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U137	You understand that a dispute about this really would arise because there is a specific law, and it would come to the Supreme Court, where its constitutionality should be assessed. Then you could say something specific, wouldn't you? Right now, all I can do here is speculate or express an opinion that I honestly do not have to say on this matter. In my understanding of this issue, I browsed this 2009 decision. I have to admit, I had not read it in more detail before, and now I have looked at what the Supreme Court said about the control of local governments. Well, let's just say, in the end, he said that he could impose this obligation, that's okay. The reason existed when the obligation to control local governments was imposed on the National Audit Office. Consequently, it is difficult for me to confirm that the Constitution clearly prohibits the competence of the National Audit Office. In this solution, I'm going to stick to this solution, and in this solution, the main message was that the additional functions must not prevent the institution from performing its main functions. That, in my opinion, was the main message of this solution. But really, as you say, there must be a compelling reason to add to the responsibilities. I am no longer able to open this problem or to take sides in this dispute that has broken out here in the Riigikogu. That he's still less or more a question of options to move forward in. But at least in the light of this solution, I can say that there is no prohibition in the Constitution to grant this competence. However, the Supreme Court has provided that there must be certain reasons for doing so. I don't know what else to tell you. I understand you'd like an exact answer from me, but I don't dare think anything more specific right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U138	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U139	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear President of the Supreme Court! There was the case of Mary Kross, where a person gave false statements, the clear aim of which was to harm a parliamentary party. Thus, this false speech was purposed. This procedure was closed with an oportunity. The damage caused by the damage to that reputation was not compensated in any way. However, one of the Tartun women was accused of false sayings, even though these statements specifically did not harm any party. The person who was accused remained vague and unidentified, but the Tartun woman was found guilty. I now have the question: how can you explain such a different approach to similar infringements? How fair does the public seem to have such a different approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U140	Thank you. That is the same question that came up in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'd try to look positive. First, the court is independent and can decide in a particular case as it considers appropriate on the basis of certain circumstances. He hasn't been told that you have to decide the same way or the same way. This is the first positive moment I think of in this matter. Another positive moment is, you might think, too, that the press and also the public were quite under pressure from this Mary Kross case. There was, in fact, criticism from the law firm that it was somehow superficially resolved. I guess it wasn't meant enough. In the other way, you could say that you see, the criticism is effective, and now a different solution has been made. If it had been decided in the same way, you could have said that public opinion does not affect anyone, you will see that it is still decided in the same way. Depends on where you look from. On the other hand, of course, people should be treated equally, that is clear. At the same time, it is inevitable that I, too, have seen it over the years, that if someone comes to trial with a novel case in substance, he is in some sense always a guinea pig. If there is a norm that has not been implemented in the past, a balance point will only be sought, then mistakes or disagreements may arise before the balance point develops and the case law and practice of applying a certain standard in some way. Those who are the first to be brought to justice with some transgressions may have a different judgment than those who will come next. I can't comment on anything more specific. Of course, it does not make sense that similar situations are assessed differently. I have not read either decision in detail, and I do not know whether these are completely comparable cases, but, judging from the media, I, too, have the impression, as a citizen, that these guilty parties could have been treated the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U141	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Chairman of the Supreme Court! During quarantine, many parents had problems with maintenance. Some parents were reduced by 50%. For example, if the parent received EUR 1 000 before and paid off 400 of the maintenance allowance there, he was left with EUR 600. It was now in a situation where EUR 500 was recovered and paid EUR 400 for the maintenance allowance, and it was left either for itself or for another family, so-called EUR 100 per month. What should be done in the future if the parents cannot agree on a temporary reduction in the allowance? It is very time-consuming to bring about a reduction in the allowance through the court. What should I do? We're still talking about an emergency situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U143	I was actually trying to bring out the same problem myself here. When the emergency was put in place, I also predicted this problem. I wrote to the Justice Department that listen, something should be done here, either by law or by other means, to help in an emergency. I'm not saying we need to reduce the obligation to pay this living in emergency situations, but there could be some kind of relief, so not everyone has to go to court. It's not until after a certain time in court that all things will be settled. If a person loses his job today and has been sentenced to a living, then on the other hand, he is threatened with the terrible sanctions you have imposed on him, the withdrawal of all kinds of permits. And in the end, there's criminal responsibility, right, which follows when a person can't pay that minimum living. But this background is still wider. I have been fighting for this for years, both in court and in the Ministry of Justice, so that we should abolish this mechanical minimum wage-related livelihood. There is no such system in any other country near here, as far as I know. Elsewhere, either there is no limit at all, or some formula is used and the amount of maintenance allowance is calculated according to the person's real income and child's needs. Changing the amount to be paid does not have to be so difficult that it goes through a court of law. That is one of my fears that these requests for conversion will accumulate in court in the autumn and that the children will not actually receive help. We're talking about the same maintenance aid. Today maybe Dad says he'll voluntarily pay that allowance for some period. Not all people go to court, Dad voluntarily pays for the allowance. But if he loses his job now, he won't be able to pay it. In order for a child to receive a living, you should first file an action, then the money will be cleared, then you have to wait and go to the bailiff and wait for him or her to get the money or not. If he does, you'll get some maintenance. I understand this is the system right now, but it shouldn't be so rigid. I've given examples of that. One of the most extreme litigations that has been held in Estonia is with a man in a coma. Dad's in a coma at the hospital, but he's probably working for a living to get a living. But it's not normal, really, is it? Dad doesn't have anything, but they want maintenance because that's how the system is designed. Here's what the legislator has to think. The Justice Department has been trying for years, and it's still stuck. There have been roundtables, discussions have been, but everything is still stuck. It bothers me that one thing isn't getting anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U144	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U145	Good manager! Good waitress! The Supreme Court recently decided that the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the appeal for land change is not worth discussing. I would like to remind you that this evidence was obtained with permissions for unlawful surveillance. Leon Glikman has repeatedly said that the Estonian judicial system, especially with regard to criminals, is based on a rather rotten foundation. And if our administrative courts are normal and functioning, that cannot be said of a criminal court. That means it's inquisitional. From this point of view, as the head of the Supreme Court, you should be partly the head of the Supreme Court of the Inquisition. What would you say to Leon Glikman sitting here right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U146	I'd argue with Leon. First of all, criminal proceedings in Estonia have been made as competitive as they can. I would argue that this rivalry, bringing all this into the courtroom, is the main reason why these things are dragging so long and so much delayed. The Inquisition sounds awful. We remember from the old days that it's like burning, right, but actually, the Inquisition means the court is investigating the evidence itself. It doesn't mean anything else. That word, however, has such a very bad taste. I don't think we have inquisition court proceedings. As far as this particular case is concerned, I also browsed this solution. I personally had nothing to do with this case. The fact is that people were convicted in Estonia and the decisions came into force, right? In the European Court of Human Rights, cases can be challenged if the state has not complied with certain procedural principles in court. In this particular case, it was indeed said that certain evidence was collected in an unacceptable manner, in violation of fundamental rights. Now, as the law provides, when the Court of Human Rights evaluates this, it may try to reopen the procedure. It all depends on how likely that evidence affected the outcome of the case. That's how it's governed by law. This is how I understand it: the criminal college assessed it and said that these evidence did not affect the final solution and therefore it will not be reopened. That's how I understood the solution, so I've been explained it. Their assessment was that no one was convicted on their own. That's how I figured it out. I may have misunderstood a little. I have the impression that the possibility of reopening is, according to the law, limited and depends on whether or not the evidence used affected the solution. In the present case, it was found not to have affected the situation. I don't know how to criticize it, I don't dare, I don't want to. I hope colleagues thought this through nicely before they made a decision. And this is how I understood that in this first resolution, too, even before the human rights trial, the same evidence was in question. And then again, I say it with a reservation, but I understood it that way, it was already said that without these proofs there were grounds for conviction. But I'm not sure about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U147	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U148	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! My question is about something that also seems a little abnormal. Anniversaries ago, a successful information operation totally destroyed Marti Kuusik's reputation and his family peace in the same way. My question is: how long do you say an independent Estonian court can extend this farce and whether Marti Kuusik is also a guinea pig in a case where the victim does not actually exist?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U149	Again: I have not read or seen any material in Marti Kuusik's case. I've only read in the media about the subject that concerns him. It is therefore very difficult for me to assess whether or not something has been done wrong there. I understand these disputes aren't over yet, are they? The fact that they last so long, well, I, too, have the question of how, as in a few cases of violence, something needs to be dealt with for months. In civil proceedings, we'll settle matters in one day. I come from civil proceedings, and I'm used to having this sort of thing settled in one day. But in criminal proceedings, six months is like a day. That's the difference. One of the things I've been thinking about in this connection is destroying reputation. One topic that really deserves to be addressed in the Riigikogu is the responsibility of the state for justice, among other things. It is very interesting that the State Liability Act has been tried to change several times in the Riigikogu, but it has not reached anywhere. There is a clause in this law that there is, in principle, no compensation for damage caused in the event of a judicial procedure, only in the case of a criminal offence by a judge. In fact, it is very questionable whether such regulation is reasonable and correct, whether it is even compatible with the Constitution. If a person is still suffering in the course of justice, there is currently only one thing to be compensated for: when a person has been unduly detained. But there is no compensation in other cases, and therefore the State Liability Act would certainly deserve to be discussed here in the Riigikogu. If someone has really been harmed, they should be able to obtain some kind of compensation. Right now, it's been under the law. But as for Marti Kuusik, I really can't say anything specific. I hope and believe that it has not been mistreated, at least in court and in the prosecution. If it's the other way around, it's bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U150	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U151	Thank you to the President of the sitting. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! As an interesting coincidence, I had a meeting yesterday with some Estonian entrepreneurs who highlighted the slowness of our legal proceedings in business disputes as one of the main obstacles or concerns. I assure you this is a serious concern for them, they talked about it for a long time. What is your message on this matter for Estonian entrepreneurs? What can be done to ensure that judicial proceedings are more effective and that solutions come more quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U152	In fact, it is paradoxical: if we look at the numbers of other countries in comparison, then we are at the top of Europe. It's gonna take longer anywhere else. If, for example, we compare the ordinary county court procedure in Estonian court proceedings with the arbitration procedure in which I have been involved quite repeatedly in the past, the arbitration procedure will continue for almost the same period. What's that all about? There are a couple of principles in this procedure. One is that a counterparty must always be able to react. It can't be that we're sending a claim to court today, and tomorrow we'll get an answer. We have a sacred postulate that I do not think can be withdrawn, and it is that we ask the person against whom the claim has been made, what he thinks of the matter. This is the first moment of time that inevitably exists. Next thing you know, we're gonna have to file evidence and discuss the whole thing. In the Estonian court, very bad practice is common in civil matters, that people cannot make clear claims. I can't tell you what percentage this is, but I'm guessing that 30% of the stuff you're dealing with is going to have to be solved, so there's gonna be a couple of weeks if it's not a month-long slouch, so we can figure out what the plaintiff wants. And as a rule, the requirements have become very complex. It is not simply that Mari requires Jüri, or one undertaking, to charge EUR 1000 from another. Often the requirements are well complicated, and it takes time to get into them. In itself, the movement of things in the courts has always been in the eye. The presidents of the courts will make sure that nothing gets too busy. In civil matters, unlike criminal cases, disease is not usually the cause of delays. And a lot of judges also solve certain matters in writing, so there hasn't been a hearing. But true, there are exceptions. Certain things have been scattered from place to place and very long stretched. What's going to help you with that? After all, nothing directly helps; no one outside can intervene decisively. But I can tell you that a few years ago, an administrative judge was released from office disciplinaryly because he systematically delayed the settlement of matters. If such complaints occur, they shall be dealt with thoroughly. And it cannot be said that there is something special in Estonia that I have spoken and compared with people from other countries. However, basic rights must be guaranteed. I would also like to see these entrepreneurs and ask you where you think they are. It can't be that I'm filing a lawsuit today, and tomorrow he's gonna be sued for damages. This cannot simply be the case, because we must also give the defendant the opportunity to state his point of view and to provide evidence. That is the content of the legal proceedings. Sometimes it gets out of hand, it's true, but an oppressive majority of cases gets a quick solution. In urgent proceedings for payment orders, an overwhelming majority of matters can be resolved in a few weeks if they are small claims for money. Some of the big things do stretch, but it's kind of inevitable when both sides have their arguments and evidence and go into dispute. I don't have any magic wand that could make these things so much faster. The only hope is, the qualifications of the representatives will increase, so that professional representatives will exist and they will understand what is being done. Then it'll go much faster in court. Today, there are still very many things in Estonia where there are no professional representatives. People are trying to do their own business and are in trouble because they cannot make their claims clear to the court, they do not understand what is expected of them, they do not want to spend money, they do not want to take procedural assistance from the state. And that's when things get stuck. If these entrepreneurs who met with you were to express their criticisms, even if they were to give examples, I would be able to say something more concretely. I have now been in this position for a year, and I have had a lot of complaints about judges, they reach the head of the Supreme Court, but I don't remember there were any delays. All kinds of other things have been complained about, there have been doubts that there is something wrong with this or the other judge, that he is solving things wrong, but the complaining that someone is delaying things has been minimal. From its surface, I dare not say that this is a big problem. But this same digitalization and everything else is probably gonna make it better. And today it can be said that the once sci-fi goal of 100 days has actually been achieved in the case-law of the county court. It's only three months! I have still given an example of whether or not, at the beginning of last year, Estonia's trial was closed in Paris, where, as I understand, 20 years were discussed whether or not to bring proceedings. And then it ended, I guess, by saying no, we still don't go into the process. I don't remember what it was supposed to work out in the end. It was discussed for a very long time, to put it mildly. Well, if we'd been dragging things like that, the judge would probably have been fired. But let's hope for the best!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U153	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U154	Thank you. Dear President of the Supreme Court! I don't know how you do, but I feel that there are a lot of drafts coming from the current composition of the Riigikogu on your desk, where there is a suspicion that they do not comply with the Constitution. I have a question about a specific draft law and the timetable involved. This draft for the dismantling of the pension system, which is already under your procedure, what is the timetable for this procedure? We're waiting for that decision, how far away is this thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U155	Okay, I can talk about it. All this time in the proceedings before the Supreme Court, it has been extremely intensively dealt with. Our entire council has uncoupled it, we have torn it apart, we have discussed it, we have met experts in several areas, we have talked about it, we have prepared this thing, we have more or less come up with questions that should be resolved, and we have put together explaining material. In the coming days we will decide to refer this matter to the General Assembly of the Supreme Court. This decision has not yet been made, but we are discussing it and it is possible that such a decision will come now. If that's how it goes, there's still a few things that need to be discussed. The decision is at the stage of preparation, basically ready, so let's say it's almost done. However, given the summer that comes up, and also the deadlines, I predict it, rather we would very much like any formula to be finalized in October at the latest. I can't give you a draft here. It's not up to me. Well, it'd be even better if everything was done earlier, but that's the current situation with this thing. So we're working on it intensively, and this week we've been sitting together for half a day discussing it. We haven't hit a lullaby.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U156	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U157	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! I very much liked your answer that you too are dissatisfied with both the maintenance aid and the current maintenance arrangements and do not consider it right to continue without changing this regime, because it raises problems. I have asked repeated questions on this subject to both the former Minister of Justice and the current Minister of Justice. In Question Time, I have also given the same example as your father in a coma: you need to go to court before you receive maintenance support. But what happens then? I understand that you too are dissatisfied, that people are in trouble and that children are in trouble, that those who also have to pay a living if they lose their jobs are in trouble. Somehow these things don't move. Mr. Raivo Time has told me many times that it is being dealt with, but that it is difficult. What is your advice on what to do next? People are actually very worried and in trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U158	Actually, I'd point my finger at the Justice Department, who's a screw-up... Sorry, wrong word! But they haven't been able to come up with a solution. With the previous Minister of Justice, we had a round table several times, with representatives of the various parties present. Everyone admitted that the current system did not work. I think it's been a year or two. They made a deal, and the Ministry made a bill, but it disappeared somewhere in the Justice Department. There's been some kind of bullshit going on all the time, so it seems mystical to me. Well, what's so complicated about this livelihood that you can't even come up with a solution so it can finally be discussed?! There's something mysterious about it, and it makes me unconscionable. So far, the problem has been brought to justice, that somehow they can handle it. In an emergency situation, the Minister of Justice made recommendations to parents on the website instead of developing specific measures. It wasn't there. In this sense, I dare be critical of the Ministry of Justice, who is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U159	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U160	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! I'd like to talk a little bit about the kids and what happens after the verdict. We have a number of examples where the court has set up child care arrangements between parents, but one parent simply does not comply. I personally know a mother who hasn't seen her child in two years, even though her parents have been given specific communication arrangements. How do you see this problem? I've seen no victim support, no prosecutor's office, no police, no local government, no one can help this parent. What can you say about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U161	Well, it's the same end-to-end, living in a jar, but it's much more complicated. In one of the cases of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court, the European Court of Human Rights has told Estonia that listen, it is still not right. However, no one has any good idea of what to do if it is not voluntarily implemented. Different options have been proposed. And when we look at other countries, we also see that there is no good solution. So what do we do? We can't have a filler sitting at the baby's house or carrying a baby around every weekend with a loader. What's gonna happen to that kid like that? What, though, do we do in this instance? On the contrary, in most cases the father does not see the child's complaints that come to court are typically just like this. If we fine people or impose a penalty on the mother or father, we will actually indirectly reduce the child's well-being. This money goes to the state. In my opinion, the biggest penalty imposed on my mother is 35,000 euros or something, but she just hasn't paid it. All right, we're gonna make it happen: we're gonna take away his property, but then the baby's gonna suffer, all right? So what do we do? What else does the law allow? The law allows this parent to be imprisoned. If he still doesn't follow any rules, he can. In my opinion, the only measure that could contain people in such situations is the withdrawal of custody and its granting to another parent. This is the only effective measure likely to be feared by this parent. He knows he's gonna lose the baby if he doesn't fulfill the assigned order. But then the other parent has to be ready to take over the child, not to think that I'm willing to be a good father or mother for two days, but otherwise, you know, I don't want him. Then there will be disputes, and there will be no way we can resolve them. This is also a situation where enforcement cannot be guaranteed by the bailiff. After all, it takes a normal person to grow up to be a child, to communicate with both mother and father, so that he does not experience trauma, so that everything in his life will continue to work. In this sense, the courts need supreme patience. One thing I have already pointed out is the conciliation procedure. One of the root problems of these matters is that the state is going to deal with them too late. Out-of-court conciliation should be possible when problems have only occurred at the first level when people are just starting to break up. So they should get help cheaply from somewhere, so they can make agreements about all things at once before relationships get really messed up. It seems to me that it was too late to argue with people. Then you take rigid positions, and the other half says you can't see the baby, where's my livelihood?! Or they say I just don't fulfill this order, I don't care. We have such parents, and we are in trouble with them in the judicial system. And unfortunately, let's say there are no gold keys here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U162	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U163	Honourable manager! Head of the Supreme Court! I would like to ask how our country deals with the separation of powers, precisely from the point of view of the judiciary. Examples of the fact that the separation of powers may be a question mark are many, but one of the most remarkable is that there is no physical separation of powers in two places. I mean that both the Harju County Court and the Tartu County Court are located in the same building, under the same roof as the Prosecutor's Office. Do you see this as a threat to the separation of powers? And if you do, shouldn't you do something about it as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U164	I dare say, however, that there is real separation of powers in Estonia. I would argue from the point of view that there are not many such complaints among the complaints that have reached me and I have received them. That someone says, "Hey, that judge there is somehow related to the prosecutor or something like that" such claims are going through with the occasional retreats, but that we can basically have the situation that the judge is subject to someone, that someone is calling him or telling him to make that decision, I dare put the hand on the heart and say that this is not the case in the Republic of Estonia. And that is confirmed, among other things, by the generational shift. The prosecutors have complained, by the way, that if there were old judges who used to be like old friends, now there are new people, and they're avoiding the prosecutor like the plague, they can't even talk to them. They've been complaining that the younger ones keep more distance. And we've got a lot of rejuvenation in the whole judiciary right now. So I don't think that's a real problem. As far as these common houses are concerned, this is a purely economic decision in its time. There's nothing more back there. And it's not just like this in Tartu and Tallinn, it's basically like this everywhere in Estonia. There are some houses that have been made differently, there's a prosecutor a little away. Yeah, it doesn't make sense, different parties could at least be isolated somehow. But it has been a purely national fiscal, economic starting point. How do we solve this? Maybe we should say, build us new houses. Give us the money, Riigikogu! And, Ministry of Finance, give us the money, we'll build new courthouses where the DA's office isn't here. Yeah, very good, of course, but they probably say, no, no, listen, it's irrational. The country is now facing state buildings, isn't it? It is considered appropriate to bring all public authorities together. An example of the courthouse that seemed to me the most suspicious on the tour is Jõgeva's new courthouse. I don't know if any of you guys have been there, but it's basically like it looks like a police house on the floor full of police cars, and there's a court on one corner. And there's a prosecutor's office somewhere. We didn't even have the right room to talk to the judges there. So this house is well sparingly made, well-modernly probably, everything has been tried to keep a minimum in mind. But then what? By the way, at present, this situation has improved in the sense that many courts and court officials have moved to teleworking. People are at home, judges don't see prosecutors. And a lot of people don't want to come out of the house, they're used to it, and the courthouses are empty. Of course, there is a question of who we have built these houses for when no one wants to work there anymore. But I believe that, if it were possible, of course, these houses could be built between the walls or taken out by the prosecutor's office. And perhaps it would also help if a common state-wide judicial authority could succeed. Then these situations would also change if people were to be interrupted. One thing is when people are together in one house all the time and they know each other. Then maybe it's the source of the risk. But if people move around and solve things today in one house and tomorrow in another, personal involvement will be minimal. But, of course, if there's money, we break up judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U165	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, thank you for this very interesting overview. I couldn't help but hear the judges' obligation to visit those who are in a nursing home against their will. I would ask for a slightly longer comment on the duty of the judge and on the dissatisfaction that the time interval is so short.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U167	I'll be more specific. There is such a system in Estonia that we have many people who are incapable of expressing their will, either against the will or without the will to keep people in a nursing home, aren't we, according to the Social Welfare Act, required permission from the court? Secondly, the law provides that every year it is necessary to check whether these people are there properly, whether all people who are in nursing homes against their own will qualify under this section. And there's a lot of people in nursing homes. The law provides for a full procedure for this purpose. We need to ask the doctor's opinion, but one requirement is that the judge and I think that this is basically the right requirement to personally look at a particular person. Maybe he's in a mental institution or a nursing home, and maybe they're doing something unacceptable to him. The judge goes on the scene and communicates with the person. It's been years of practice that judges go on the ground. The law requires people to be reviewed so that all of this is not based on paperwork alone. In an emergency, it was extremely problematic. These people are particularly at risk and the situation was very risky. It should therefore be possible to arrange things differently. You can't postpone it either. When the year is over, they say that a person is in a nursing home without a legal basis, right? In my opinion, this time should not be a year for it to be three years. After all, a person has the right to apply to leave. Yes, of course we have to check, but the current procedure is to drop resources. We're wasting money, paying psychiatrists every year for their expertise, which is not cheap for the state at all. In fact, a person is in a vegetative state in a nursing home all the time, right? He's gonna look at you with that same face this year. I think we need to renegotiate this time. These people should not be visited every year, and this request for a hearing should also be alleviated a little. Maybe the judge shouldn't be looking at these people in person. That's the background, then.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U168	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U169	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! My question is about one form of community engagement such as the vigilante. I am thinking of the internal rules or rules of housing associations and settlements, which do not take account of the particularities of all people. There are many examples. The housing company simply distributes parking spaces, and the person who does not need a parking space who does not want to drive is still paying for the parking space, because the housing company has democracy, because the majority dominates the minority. In what ways can these people receive support, and is it a major problem that some set up their own internal rules that make things worse for the few?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U170	The whole theme "Corter Associations" could be a topic of the day in itself, because legal conflicts with neighbours are coded for Estonian people. Our people basically have two enemies: ex-husband and neighbor. This can be said by looking at the most acute disputes between people in court. In the case of housing cooperatives, the practice is completely different, much depends on the size of the house as well, right? There are houses where you can manage very nicely, but there are houses where you always have conflicts. There are houses where somebody wants to grab power, run things, there are houses where no one wants to drive, everyone says, for God's sake, don't bother me with these problems. But yes, there are people who fight each other: we both want to run this house, and so there will be conflicts. And in many ways, the internal rules of these cooperatives are those that have nothing to do with the law. As far as the distribution of parking spaces is concerned, I have a test case for students on the distribution of parking spaces. In fact, the building management company does not have the competence to share parking spaces, so that the owners of the dwelling have to enter into an agreement with each other. The cooperative can't really decide at all, but many people don't know that. We should go to court to challenge the case, but we can't do that. It is often very large cooperatives that take all sorts of strange decisions, especially in cooperatives that have many other languages, with little knowledge of Estonian law. Let me give you two examples of what I remember from history. The first example was one of Narva's garage associations, which imposed on all members the obligation to watch over the garages at night so that they would not be emptied. One person protested that he was not willing to go to the Supreme Court to look after him. But the most marked thing I remember is another housing company with its own decision. I have given this example many times, and I will bring it to you. Maardus was a housing company whose decision was contested in court, and the decision was such that all members of the housing company undertake to vote in favour of Sidorova, the first wife of the housing company, when choosing the municipalities. So what do we do? You can't challenge it, either, but, well, it shows the level that happens in housing companies. People don't know much about laws and they don't have to know, but that's how they get into the hands of someone who does these things in cooperatives. And where do they get help? Well, whoever gets to court, they get help, right? The Association of Housing Cooperatives has been very active in providing assistance to these people, as far as I understand. Urmas Mardi is very active there, they discuss these problems a lot. Clearly, the bigger the house, the harder it's gonna be to run. If we still have maximum houses, where there are totals, I don't know how many hundred apartments, then it's a society in its own right. It's beyond the law. It's not like anyone's coming from outside to tell the cooperative that if you make a decision and you just start complaining about each other, we'll help. You still have to go outside and exercise your right. Eventually, you have to go to a lawyer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U171	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U172	Thank you. Unfortunately, your field is not quite mine, and unfortunately I did not hear the previous debate apologize, I had an event, but something still comes to my mind. Can I ask you this question: do you also have such criticism within the system of justice of the reforms, practices and selection of staff that you would like to comment on here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U173	Criticism at who then? At the government? Well, I just criticized the Justice Department that he hasn't fixed the maintenance system. And some criticism of the judicial system itself, we are doing it in a systematic way. We have a court administration council for this purpose, which, on behalf of the courts, forwards proposals in a coordinated manner to the Minister of Justice and the entire government, as well as to the Riigikogu. After all, we have two members from the Riigikogu. But, of course, people talk to each other. The judges' decisions can be criticised by all people. Everyone's someone's voter. But our job is to keep balance and be separate, independent, not affected by anything. If you're asking me now if we feel that the current government is somehow hurting the courts, I don't feel it. [[Jürgen Ligi will comment on the floor.]] But there must always be some criticality. I brought out a whole bunch of things here that I could change to do better. But I don't think there's anything fundamental up there right now. Let's just say I don't feel it and I haven't heard anyone else feel it either. I also asked my colleagues for messages in this hall. I asked the heads of courts if they had any messages to the Riigikogu, and I asked the members of the Supreme Court. As far as those messages were concerned, I put them all in this report, didn't leave anything out. In general, everyone was optimistic, and there's nothing crazy about it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U174	Thank you, President of the Supreme Court, for a meaningful report and for answering questions. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Hanno Pevkur Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U175	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, you must thank the President of the Supreme Court for this good report. In fact, in addition to this report, every member of the Riigikogu should also review the statistics behind this report. In a broad sense, of course, it can be said that there is very great concern, at least statistically, not. Today's questions and answers also showed that the real problems in Estonian justice are somewhere else when the law has written down. I am truly deeply convinced that the Supreme Court is the last line of defence in defending the Constitution. And now, if you put together the last public writings or performances of the current Chairman of the Supreme Court and the previous Chairman of the Supreme Court, the current Chairman of the Supreme Court recently published an article on the quality of legislation. The Riigikogu must also look deeply in the mirror to take into account that the quality of legislation must be so good that the courts have as little work as possible. If we look at the court order and the work of the courts, we have recently had a role to play in the fact that we have given the Supreme Court a job in constitutional supervision. The coalition's contribution to this work has led to a number of cases being declared to be in breach of the Constitution. Some of them have returned to this hall without reaching the Supreme Court. The last example is the publication of human health data related to emergency or crisis assistance. A little earlier, we remember the case, which the President of the Supreme Court also mentioned: it was remembered that it concerned matters of military intelligence and its unconstitutional nature. And at the moment, this is a topic that I also identified in my question: it is the rights and obligations of the National Audit Office. I strongly recommend once again that the Government Coalition read § 133 of the Constitution, which talks about the rights and responsibilities of the National Audit Office, about its competence. It clearly states that if we are also talking about municipalities, then the municipality is the user of public money and the operator of public authority. When we talk about the tasks to be assigned to the National Audit Office, the idea of the Constitution does not come together in any way that parties should be checked by the National Audit Office. No, another solution needs to be found. I am deeply convinced that if the government coalition continues to plan to assign these tasks to the National Audit Office, this dispute will reach the table of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court will then have to make that decision. So I predict that from this hall too, constitutional supervision matters will arrive on the table of the Supreme Court, not only the issue of pensions, not just the issue of the National Audit Office, not just the help of crisis. Well, maybe we can work this one out ourselves. But, unfortunately, there have been more and more. So here, above all, yes, the government coalition needs to realise that the quality of legislation is something that cannot give in. Because if we give in to it, it ends with a court check. And I very much hope that our judicial system will remain unaffected by political pricks and that the judicial system will be able to do its work impartially. It is certainly worth noting that the judicial system as a whole really works in Estonia, as the procedural deadlines are relatively reasonable. But we have to consider one very big 'but' here: this old people's wisdom that a drop of tar in the honey pot ruins the honey pot. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U176	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U177	There are a few long criminal proceedings, as well as some problematic civil proceedings, which have worsened the Court's image. And if these few long things are there, then the reputation of the judicial system will be established. The judicial system as a whole must therefore take this into account and deal with these long procedures. Under the circumstances, I agree, the justice system has endured quite well and has done quite well. But it can be assumed that the time forward, the more the effects of the emergency situation on the judicial system of common civil cases will probably have to be more, then they will be bankruptcies, labour disputes or something else. So when we listen to the review of the judicial system this year, we will certainly find out that the number of cases has increased slightly. I have pointed out that the courts and the judiciary must not be politicised. It's got a very serious point. In a democratic country, there must be no risk of politically pricking the judicial system. This has a long-term impact. And the control of it must be partly in the hands of this hall, here we must make sure that we do not do what should not be done. Finally, I would once again like to call on coalition politicians to listen to legal experts and to adhere to good legislative practice in order to avoid unconstitutional draft laws and other legislative failures. As I have already pointed out, the previous President of the Supreme Court, Priit Pikamäe, pointed out this very strongly, referring to the culling of legislation. And this legislative failure, above all, comes from haste. When we look at the procedure for our pending drafts, we constantly see that we want to give two days by the deadline for amendments, that the drafts are somehow generated overnight and somewhere from someone's computer, we do not know how this process has been done. This is something that must be avoided, because the result is likely to be a constitutional review procedure. And, unfortunately, many of these proceedings have recently ended with the knowledge of this Chamber that it is an unconstitutional provision. So I call on everyone to keep their senses and vigor in creating justice, so that the judiciary has less work. It would also provide an opportunity for those cases that are dragging on to the end quickly. Good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U178	On behalf of the EKRE Group of Paul Puustusmaa, please! Eight full minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U179	Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Chairman of the Supreme Court for a very meaningful and thorough report! And now I'm gonna take this ball, which maybe is a little unusual. But good Hanno has thrown up this ball, and I will beat it back, admitting that if the subject of our debate was primarily court order, justice and uniform application of the law, Hanno pointed out some nuances that could be accepted in part. For example, Hanno said that the statistics sent by the court presidents must certainly be taken into consideration. For God's sake, it's very good statistics, very concise, very thorough statistics, and it's certainly worth getting an overview of it. This adds a lot to Villu Kõve's presentation. Of course, Hanno referred to § 133 of the Constitution and warned that we in the Riigikogu would read it very carefully and not go against § 133 of the Constitution in our decisions. This reference then concerned the tasks of the ERJK and the Supreme Court. For my part, I assure you that on the contrary, I do not see any danger here, and I, ladies and gentlemen, do not want to warn you in any way about this. There is no contradiction in this section with the Constitution. Nor can I agree with the idea of a good colleague, Hanno, that, since it has been pointed out here that the exchange of footage is great in the courts, a terrible politicisation is now beginning. No, Hanno, there won't be any politicisation of the court. I do not think there is any need to fear this, at least our group is not afraid of this politicisation. But like I said, it was a very good speech, very concise. And what did it show? This showed, in my opinion, above all, that the very foundation of our democracy, the bearer of the principle of separation of powers, the one foot, or judicial authority, is very important in all its complexity. And today we really got a good view of the court order itself, the administration of justice, and the problems that deserve attention. I would like to thank Mr Villu for the reference that the amendment of the State Liability Act should be introduced. I'm sure it's very up-to-date. We see the difficulties involved in conciliation or in wages, workload, criminal proceedings, digitalisation, videos. We can see them, we can sense them, and we definitely need to move on here. At the same time, I understood from the report of the President of the Supreme Court that there is not much cause for panic. It's just that these things need to be processed here, certain laws need to be improved. The credibility of the courts is still important. Of course, this speech may have dealt with a little bit of a subject that specifically concerns the uniform application of the law, but it came up as a matter of question. I think ladies and gentlemen have received the answer. It's like there's two sides to every coin. Any appeal against a judgment is, in fact, a small form of mistrust to the judiciary. The court rules the law on behalf of the State and judges should apply the law in a fully uniform manner. If a decision is appealed, it is not just a test, it shows that the judge is not trusted and therefore the matter must be asked to be re-examined. Moreover, if we have a court ruling after he has passed all our institutions, to a higher court, which operates outside Estonia, this means that we do not trust the Estonian court. Consequently, we must appeal somewhere higher, farther, perhaps to a court in Brussels, which perhaps judges more fairly. Well, we should trust the Estonian court. But I am pleased to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, reminding us that tomorrow we will be discussing bill 175, which is the draft law amending the Law on Courts and the Code of Civil Procedure. Tomorrow it's a second reading in this hall. I thank everyone, I thank KHN, the court administration council, thank the judges' councils and the Supreme Court, thank the Ministry of Justice, who has worked hard on this bill. This future law will certainly make the work of the courts more organized, probably solve some of the problems concerning the organisation of work, and put the tension of justice to rest. But what would you like for the court and the judges? I want to wish them courage and strength on behalf of my group. I wish the judges courage and strength to be able and dare to judge even more decisively on behalf of our country, on behalf of an independent state, given the things that await us. We know, for example, how a giant ship of money comes this way, brings us money and happiness. There are two anchors attached to this ship, a green treaty attached to one anchor and a reduction of independence attached to the other anchor. We remember that in 2012 the Supreme Court was essentially divided during the ESM dispute. In the case of uniform procedure and uniform application of the law, it may become divided again, and who knows which side the Supreme Court is leaning to this time when this matter comes to court. But in a court of law, the principle that we have laid down in the preamble to the Constitution and which says that our country and our right are based on freedom is based on justice and justice, and justice is a prequalification because it is above the law. And certainly we must respect the principle of equality and equal treatment without refraction, which means, above all, that equal treatment must be treated equally, unequal treatment must be treated unequally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U180	Thank you very much. There is no further wish for negotiations. The negotiations have been concluded and this item is also being dealt with. Thank you very much to the chairman and questioners of the Supreme Court!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U181	We are going to the next item on the agenda: the Government of the Republic has initiated the amendment of the law on the External Action Service and, in this connection, the draft law on the amendment of other laws with number 45. The rapporteur is Marko Mihkelson, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that in order to strengthen the Estonian External Action Service, the Riigikogu has reached the threshold of important decisions. Discussions on the amendment of the Act on the External Action Service actually started already in the previous Riigikogu. And from the very beginning, the first important starting point of the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs was that we will first complete the foreign policy development plan until 2030 and then complete the modernisation of the External Action Service in the light of the long-term objectives set, including the strengthening of the External Action Service, by discussing the proposed draft and amendments. I would like to begin by thanking everyone who, in preparing this very important draft for our foreign policy, has worked to empower the working and family life of diplomats on long-term foreign missions. In particular, our good diplomats and meeting their expectations have been at the heart of the proceedings of the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs. At the same time, the draft act will help to harmonise legislation, but also reduce the administrative burden within the administration. The result will hopefully be a major step forward in motivating, modernising and opening our External Action Service, just as the challenges and opportunities appropriate to the age call for it. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take stock here of the procedure for the draft and its preparation for the second reading today. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft in this Riigikogu on 9 September last year and the draft was accepted into the procedure on 10 September. We had our first reading in this Chamber on 12 November. The deadline for submitting amendments was 3 December and one amendment was received by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. I will come back to both this and the amendments tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs a little later. In order to prepare for the second reading of the draft, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as trustees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, accompanied Katrin Lipu, Director General of the Legal Department Kerli Veski and Head of the Physical Security Department, as representatives of staff working on a long-term foreign mission. In addition, the committee asked the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu and the Chancellor of Justice for an opinion on the draft. The Committee on Foreign Affairs also carried out an in-depth analysis of the experience of organising the external services of our partner countries. In order to better understand the background system, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, with the help of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu, gathered information from the Member States of the European Union and other countries like us on the legislation governing the External Action Service there, the organisation of the External Action Service, the circle of persons treated as a family of diplomats and their social guarantees. The Committee on Foreign Affairs received a written review on 5 February 2020. On 9 March 2020, a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs was held with representatives of the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to get an overview of the involvement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' staff as a target group in the drafting of amendments to the External Action Service Act. At the meeting, it was noted that the reduction in administrative burden in dealing with the Ministry in organising a long-term external mission was considered positive by most. However, due to the lack of implementing legislation to implement the changes, there is no certainty that the current standard of living will continue. At the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee on 23 April 2020, Deputy Chancellor Kadri Maasik of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Director General Maria Kütt, Head of the Labour and Pension Policy Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Ulla Saar and Advisor Lidia Soontak and member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu Signe Riisalo and Head of the Adviser-Secretariat Tiina Runthal gave an overview of the social issues involved in enforcing the changes. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed that the proposed changes do not reduce diplomacy fees and that living conditions in the long-term foreign mission do not deteriorate. According to the new system, the need for a staff member to coordinate with the headquarters is reduced. The Ministry of Social Affairs explained that the simultaneous payment of the pension and the remuneration of the spouse does not comply with the principle that a person does not receive multiple replacement incomes. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu did not agree with the position of the Ministry of Social Affairs, since a spouse receiving a state pension may earn income in Estonia at the same time as receiving a pension, while accompanying a husband working on a long-term foreign mission, he must choose between a earned pension and a spouse's remuneration. It is discriminatory to propose such a choice for the beneficiary of the earned pension. The spouse accompanying the long-term foreign mission also has the role of supporting the Estonian External Action Service indirectly or directly. On 28 April 2020, the Committee on Foreign Affairs held a video conference with the ambassadors of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Denmark, who resided in Estonia, who introduced the architecture, career system and rules of their country of origin's foreign service regarding the organisation of the life of staff working on a long-term foreign mission. They also answered questions put by the Members of the Commission. On 14 May 2020, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the content of the amendment tabled jointly by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. This concerned extending the rights of the spouse accompanying the diplomat on a long-term foreign mission to the partner accompanying the diplomat. This included the possibility of payment of the spouse's remuneration. The opinion on this amendment was also sought from the Chancellor of Justice, who drew attention in his letter of 10 February 2020 to the fundamental right of the family arising from § 26 and § 27 (1) of the Constitution, which protects the right of family members to maintain family ties in the broadest sense and from which the State is obliged to take steps to enable a full family life. While the particular meaning of the institution of marriage is recognised in the Constitution and in the law, this does not mean that the guarantees provided to family members should be prohibited for partners who have signed a partnership agreement, so that the social guarantees provided to members of the family of diplomats must extend to partners. The commission supported the provision of the same social guarantees to the partner of a member of the registered partner of a staff member working on a long-term foreign mission as is prescribed by the law for the spouse. Secondly, the opinion of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu on the payment of the spouse's remuneration to the spouse who received a state pension accompanying the diplomat on a long-term foreign mission was discussed. The amendment supporting the simultaneous payment of the spouse's remuneration and state pension to the accompanying spouse was supported by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of 21 May 2020, Deputy Secretary General Kadri Maasik and Director-General of the Legal Bureau of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Kerli Veski provided answers to additional questions from the Committee on Foreign Affairs regarding the reimbursement of health insurance and medical costs of staff members on a long-term foreign mission and their family members, as well as the education of their children. The representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed that the standard of living of staff working on long-term foreign missions and their families will not deteriorate once the new rulebook enters into force. Ladies and gentlemen, It is the legislator's will that, once the amendment to the External Action Service Act enters into force, the social security package will be at least as secure or better than it is now. This means that the reimbursement of health insurance and medical costs in a long-term foreign mission is at least equivalent to that of Estonia, nor does the education of the children of staff working on a long-term foreign mission deteriorate, especially in English-speaking countries. As the life of a staff member working on a long-term foreign mission and his/her family members abroad is stressful, this must be taken into account in establishing social guarantees and rights. The external mission fee shall cover, inter alia, removal, accommodation and travel expenses related to a long-term external mission, and, in the case of the accompanying child, the costs of education and care shall be reimbursed. The costs, which are not compensated by health insurance or an external mission fee, for example, additional medical costs and tuition fees for accompanying children's general education school within the limits of the cost of the international school and the place fee for pre-school children's institution, will continue to be reimbursed on the basis of the application and cost documents. In order to enable the child to continue education in Estonia and other countries, it is important that the choice of school on an external mission is not based solely on its cost or comfort. The state must favour the family's going to a long-term foreign mission, as the family provides the servant with a natural social environment, which in turn has a positive impact on the work of the servant and the diplomacy of Estonia as a whole. The representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed that, in order to enforce the new Act of the External Action Service Act on 1 August 2020, all implementing acts will be enforced and that, at the time of the second reading in the Riigikogu, the draft regulations and written material will also be made available to Parliament. However, I have to say that not all the draft implementing acts have reached us today, with the regulations most relevant to the daily activities of diplomats going on a long-term external mission. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has decided that following the entry into force of the Act, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is requested to provide a comprehensive and reasoned overview of the implementation of this Act. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 1 June, the members of the committee approved, as the last, fourth amendment, the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to extend the validity of the diplomatic passport from five years to ten years for the President of the Republic of Estonia, the former President of the Republic of Estonia, the President of the Supreme Court, the career diploma and the candidate for a career diploma. The diplomatic passport of a Member of the European Parliament is currently valid for five years, with a proposal to extend the period of validity of a Member of the European Parliament's diplomatic passport to five years and six months. The period of validity of the diplomatic passport of a member of the family of a diplomat accompanying him or her on a foreign mission shall be five years, but it shall not be valid for more than six months after the expiry of the official's or diplomat's foreign mission, as countries often require that the passport be valid for another six months after the expiry of the visa. In addition, the diplomatic passport of the diplomatic courier is also wanted to be extended from three to five years. Finally, at its meeting on 21 May 2020, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda for a second reading today, 3 June, and to propose that the second reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U183	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Is there a desire to negotiate? Raimond Kaljulaid, please, with the mandate of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U184	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much, Mr Marko, for a very thorough and exhaustive review. The draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and related amendments to other laws has been the focus of the attention of the Committee on Foreign Affairs since autumn. I specifically stress that the discussions on this draft continued very actively also at the time of the announcement of the special situation in Estonia. For this, both the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Vice-Chairman and members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs will no doubt be given great credit! The emergency once again showed the important role played by people working in the External Action Service in defending our civil rights, but also in calmer times, the External Action Service is very successful in fulfilling the mission that has been assigned to it: that Estonia is economically successful and that our security is increasingly guaranteed. With this law, we hope to further enhance Estonia's capacity to represent the interests of our country abroad and international institutions, to further improve the visibility and foresight of our institutions in foreign relations that are taking place in the world. I would also stress in particular that it also has an important economic and business policy dimension. Our External Action Service plays an important role in creating export opportunities for Estonian companies and increasing the competitiveness of our economy. In doing so, the External Action Service will support the development of our economy, the growth of prosperity, the growth of our people's incomes, jobs and the creation of business opportunities. This is an extremely important area, both today and in the future. I stress this latter because, unfortunately, it is not always understood at all levels in Estonia. Today, for example, we were able to read the news that the largest local government in Estonia, the capital city of Tallinn, has decided to close its mission to the European Union. The damage, in my opinion, is another step beyond Europe. Our External Action Service will certainly also be able to carry out its tasks effectively if other institutions, ministries in other fields, as well as local authorities are actively involved in these activities and help to represent the interests of Estonian and Estonian people. And now from the amendments that Mr Mihkelson, a good colleague, introduced in depth. I hope that there will be no doubt about Amendment 3, which will result in the exclusion from the law of the External Action Service of a provision that excludes the payment of the spouse's remuneration to a person who receives a public pension at the same time. At the same time, I am aware that in some colleagues the issue of Amendment 2 may arise. In my opinion, this is not so ideological as a human question. There have been and have been families in Estonia where adults live together, have a common household, may have children, but people are not married. In this case, both the Social Democratic Party and the Reform Party consider that the partner accompanying the mission is justified in equal treatment with the spouse accompanying the mission. Yes, of course this means that similar benefits extend to partners of the same sex. And that, too, is the right principle, because all families must be treated equally. I would stress that, to date, this is not just a proposal from two political groups, two political parties; this principle was supported by politicians in the Commission who belong to other political parties. Therefore, there was broad support for this proposal, and I hope that this proposal will also have broad support in this Chamber today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U185	Thank you very much. Anti Half-Amets on behalf of the EKRE Group, please! However, there is no need to speak on behalf of the group, it is a free speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U186	Honourable ambassadors! We support this bill. We only want to take out the proposal by the Reform Party and the Social Democrats to introduce the concept of a life partner. It is evident that people are now going to offer help where it is not expected. This proposal is not supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the External Action Service has been able to take care of matters with regard to the current regulations on spouses. It is therefore the same as the introduction of a pseudo-problem as the revision of the Cohabitation Act. At the same time, the adoption of the Cohabitation Act created a legal anarchy that continues to date. I recall that the adoption of the draft law on partnership in the Riigikogu was achieved by 40 votes. The adoption of implementing acts required a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. In the absence of the necessary votes, 87 implementing acts were not adopted, which should have been accompanied by 97 amendments to the law. All this has been done so far. As we have heard from the presentation by Villu Kõve, this has caused serious confusion in our legal order. Priit Sibul stated at the time of the adoption of the Cohabitation Act: the only idea of the law is, in fact, to regulate the relationship between same-sex couples and to equalise them with the family. So the initiators could have called it and talked about it. Unfortunately, there wasn't enough courage. Nevertheless, the Cohabitation Act was adopted on 9 October 2014 by a simple majority of 40: 38. More than 45000 signatures were collected against the adoption of the Cohabitation Act; tens of thousands of protest letters were submitted to the Riigikogu. In the run-up to the adoption of the Cohabitation Act, the ERR commissioned an opinion study which revealed that the majority of voters from no political party did not support the negotiation of the Cohabitation Act. In such a situation, it was deeply undemocratic to pass this law, knowing that there would be no votes for the adoption of implementing acts. Anarchy has been deliberately planted into the legal order. My suggestion is: instead of constantly pushing through the back door, this legal error should be eliminated and the law abolished. The worst practice is putting half a law into legal order through the back door.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U187	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U188	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, one of the worst excuses is to come to this remote control on the grounds that I wasn't going to talk, but... And now I'm gonna do it myself. I wouldn't have come here if it wasn't for the previous speaker. I need to improve the previous speaker a little on some points. It is not necessary to give much impetus to the statement that 51 votes were needed for the adoption of implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act. That's not true. The reason why they were not adopted at the time was simply that its membership was running out and the next composition was already a coalition that did not want to adopt the implementing provisions. But we also had these implementing provisions fully in place and it was quite clear that, although there were probably two laws that could have been amended by at least 51 votes, everyone else demanded a simple majority. However, as far as today's sitting is concerned, there was a moving consensus in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on these amendments when discussing this draft. And that's why I don't understand what's happened to some people at all. I don't want to name anyone, I don't give them any more say. However, I am looking at the vote on the amendments that were currently taking place in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Affairs voted on the amendments that are now being deleted, and I see that Mr Kaljulaid, Mr Kross, Mr Lotman, Mr Mihkelson, Mr Randpere, Mr Riisalo, who was in favour of the proposal, I think, instead of Keit Pentus-Rosimdose, and Mr Saar. Abstentions were Enn Frontland, and some were against it. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But there were few who opposed the Commission. So it was supported by a large majority of the Commission. But right now, I realize that now that the bill has arrived in the hall, that majority has become a minority. And, of course, I look curiously in the eye at some people who have put themselves in line for the speech, and I ask: what happened after all? What happened between the Commission sitting and today's sitting? I'm not going to convince you that the State Department is actually in a crazy situation right now. Some people who go to a foreign country have said so themselves in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have reached the point of getting married before they leave and getting divorced after they come from there. Just because Estonian law is exactly what it is that it requires people living together to be married if they want to enjoy the same benefits as married couples. That's not very reasonable thinking. It is in no way the protection of a traditional family if we force people to marry only in order to receive equal treatment in the eyes of the law, and after that we force them to divorce, because love may not have been very much, or at least was not wanted to be legally married, but would have been wanted to live in a registered partnership.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U189	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U190	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that the law on the External Action Service is very important and we have discussed it very thoroughly and for a long time. This bill, of course, needs to be adopted, behind it is long work and very high-quality work. I am very sorry that we are not discussing the main content of this draft in this Chamber, but are discussing two amendments. There were two options. One that the rights of the spouse extend to any partner. For example, I have a good friend, I play chess with him at night, and he happens to be unemployed. I'll take him with me. It's good to hang out in the city at night. I don't see why we should approach so sexistly that I still have to sleep with him too, he's just a good friend. [[The excitement in the hall.]] I opposed it, but by the way, most of the votes were in favour of the committee. The second was about the partner, and I voted in favour of it. Why did I do that? I was based on the principle that Eiki Nestor once spoke about in this hall a long time ago. He must have quoted someone when he said that if we passed the law on forests and meadows, we would not regulate river and pond matters in this law. This means that if we have registered partnerships in the Republic of Estonia with the same status as marriage, we will not sting it. The previous speaker asked what happened to me in the meantime. I looked into it. They are not equalized in Estonia. And that's what we heard about the great... President of the Supreme Court Villu Kõve in an excellent speech. He may also be a great chairman, but I meant a great speech. He said he didn't, that the law will be in force at the moment when all the legislative acts have been adopted. They don't exist. That law hangs in the air. And now, I'm sorry about the back door, I didn't want to use this term, but somehow, the law on rivers and ponds here, in this law of the External Action Service, is wrong. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] That is why I am voting 'no' and here I am shaking ashes on my head. I'm always happy to admit my mistakes if they're really wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U191	There is no further wish for negotiations. I'm gonna call the negotiations off. We will go to the examination of the amendments. The following amendments to draft law 45 have been proposed: The first amendment has been made by the Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. The Steering Committee has decided to consider this in substance. Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U192	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U193	Then let's put it to a vote. Now, please pay attention, we are going to vote on Amendment 45 on the draft. This has been proposed by the Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group and the Commission's position is to take this into account in substance. The Isamaa Group asks that it be put to the vote. If we vote in favour of this, he will go to this bill if we vote against it, he will not be dealt with together with this bill. I am simply explaining this because one time it was asked what exactly we would vote on the amendment. So that's the explanation. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of this amendment, against 50. The amendment was not supported. The second amendment is for the Committee on Foreign Affairs itself, the opinion of the commission: take full account. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U194	I am also asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U195	We will also put this amendment to the vote. Pretty much everybody's here. In short, the second amendment tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which considers it appropriate to take full account of it, will be put to the vote. Please state your point of view. Please shape the opinion and vote! 37 members of the Riigikogu supported this amendment, 50 against. The amendment was not supported. I'm gonna hit you with a hammer, too. The third amendment is from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Propose by the lead committee: take full account. Nobody calls for a vote. The fourth amendment, as well as the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the opinion of the commission: take full account. Nobody calls for a vote. We have completed the second reading of Bill 45.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U196	We're going to the seventh item. To this end, the Government of the Republic has initiated draft Act 143 on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data. We're gonna start reading it first. Please report to the Minister for Justice of the Speaker's Office. Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U197	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of Justice has submitted to you a draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the automated processing of personal data prepared by the Ministry. In 1985 the Convention for the Protection of Persons with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data established by the Council of Europe, known as 'Convention 108', entered into force. This was the first legally binding multilateral agreement on the protection of personal data for automated processing of personal data. The Convention obliges Contracting Parties to lay down appropriate measures in national law to ensure that everyone has respect for their fundamental rights and freedoms in the processing of personal data. It was also one of the main drivers for the development of European Union law in the area of data protection. The Convention has been ratified by 55 countries, including all the Member States of the European Union and four EFTA countries, all the countries of the Western Balkans, a number of neighbouring countries of the European Union, such as Armenia, Georgia, Russia and Turkey, as well as a number of countries in Africa and Latin America. As regards Estonia, the Convention entered into force on 01.03.2002. Now, however, the situation is that technological developments and information globalisation have created new challenges in the area of personal data protection. It is therefore also necessary to renew this so-called Convention 108. The purpose of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data is to update and improve the Convention, taking into account modern data protection needs. The Protocol establishes a strong and flexible multilateral legal framework to facilitate the cross-border flow of data while ensuring effective protection and processing of personal data. It links different regions of the world and different legal frameworks, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) applicable from May 2018. In conclusion, the updating of the Convention has two main objectives: firstly, to better address the challenges of using new information and communication technologies and, secondly, to strengthen the implementation of the Convention. So what are the main innovations? Firstly, stricter requirements on the principles of proportionality and data minimisation and on the lawfulness of the processing of personal data. Secondly, the extension of sensitive data types: they now also include genetic and biometric data, trade union membership and ethnic origin. Thirdly, the obligation to notify the data breach. Fourthly, greater transparency in data processing. Fifthly, in the context of algorithmic decision-making, new rights of persons, which are particularly important in relation to the development of artificial intelligence. Sixthly, greater responsibility for data controllers. Seventhly, the introduction of an integrated data protection policy. Eighthly, the application of data protection principles to all processing operations, including national security considerations, and in any case to independent and effective review and monitoring. Ninthly, establishing a clear regime for cross-border data flows. Tenth, greater powers and independence of the data protection authority and strengthening the legal basis for international cooperation. By the eleventh, international organisations will continue to be able to accede to the Convention. And let it be said that the European Union is also preparing for accession. The Protocol was approved by the Government of the Republic and authorised to sign the Protocol as early as 4 October 2018. The Protocol was signed by the Republic of Estonia in Strasbourg on 10 October 2018. As of today, 34 countries have signed the Protocol and four countries have ratified it: Bulgaria, Norway, Lithuania and Serbia. Estonia would, if it were now ratified, be the fifth country. According to the draft, the Republic of Estonia declares that it will apply the Protocol on a provisional basis pending its entry into force. This means that, pending the entry into force of the Protocol, the provisions of the Estonian Protocol will only be made in respect of other Contracting Parties which have made a similar declaration. The four States Parties which have ratified the Protocol today have all made exactly the same declaration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U198	Thank you very much, Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. For a co-report, please address the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Paul Puustusmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I bring to you the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on draft law 143. The Minister explained quite comprehensively that this is largely a uniform application of European Union law. In the Commission, too, the understanding was very clear that it did not bring about any significant changes in Estonian law. However, we discussed the draft in committee not once, but twice. There was nothing to discuss this twice but the special situation we have already known, the corona virus. The first debate was on 10 March, the second time we discussed it on 21 May. The committee was chaired by me, with the members Kalle Grünthal, Marek Jürgenson, Kaja Kallas, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Lauri Läänemets, Hanno Pevkur and Taavi Rõivas taking part. In the Commission, the Minister also presented us with this bill: where he was born, when he was born, how and when Estonia joined it. He also stressed that this was an amendment to the Council of Europe's Convention on the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data, which entered into force in 1985, due to the need to update it. The Minister stressed that the Government of the Republic approved this Protocol and authorised its signature on 4 October 2018. To date, 35 countries have joined the protocol, and less is the case with this amendment. At its first meeting on 10 March, the Commission decided by consensus that it could be placed on the plenary agenda. Originally, it was due to come to the hall on March 18. We then proposed that the first reading be completed and that Paul Puustusmaa be appointed rapporteur. But as I said, because of the corona virus, we came back together, we made new decisions that were purely procedural. And they, as I said earlier, were made on 21 May. It was then proposed that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 3 June and that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 5 June. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U200	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, Urve Tiidus, a member of the Riigikogu, has a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have this question. There are people who read this document and listen to presentations, and they may wonder what this will change in practical life in Estonia. What is it anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U202	When we are talking about the application of European conventions, it is, as I said, a uniform approach to laws. And it is not possible to imagine a situation in which the Convention, with which we have already actually joined, is being supplemented in the European Union because a number of developments have changed, the technology has evolved, new requirements are for the protection of personal data, the protection of sensitive data is more necessary, we are, as if excluded. We still have to take one step with the European Union quite unambiguously and there is nothing left but a technical transfer. I will make one comment here on the direct effects of the draft. This is in the explanatory memorandum to the draft, which states that since the introduction of the protocol has been motivated by changes due to European Union law, they have already been made in Estonian national law. It can therefore be concluded that the future law does not entail the need for internal changes. That's the conclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U203	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? That's not what you want. We have on the table the commission's proposal to finish the first reading of draft 143. First reading is over. The deadline for tabling amendments is 5 June at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U204	We go on, we have the following item on agenda No 8: Draft Act amending the Government of the Republic Act 187 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U205	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On 4 May 2020, the Government of the Republic submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Government Act. In conclusion, the draft introduces two amendments to the text of the law. The description of the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, to which the field of land resources is added, is amended. Secondly, geological mapping and guaranteeing national geological competence are noted as activities of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The main objective of the draft law is to organise the coordination structure in the field of land and to define more precisely the areas of responsibility in accordance with the current strategic document. According to the current Government of the Republic Act, topics related to land-based activities are in the domain of the Ministry of the Environment. According to the strategic document entitled 'Basics of Earthyard Policy 2050' approved by the Riigikogu on 6 June 2017, it is also necessary to implement the structural changes it provides for at the legislative level. 'Basic ground policy for the period 2050' included a proposal to amend the current arrangements for the use of land by creating competence in the field of land exploration and exploitation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the associated strategic planning capacity for economic and socio-economic development. At national level, studies of the earth's natural resources have been inhibited and geological knowledge of mineral resources and their exploitation has been a gap since Estonia regained independence for nearly 30 years. At the same time, significant developments have taken place in the use of resources in the world and raw materials have been introduced, which have not been studied in Estonia before and which were not known a few decades ago. This has led to the need to re-evaluate, analyse or investigate a number of existing land resources for economic purposes. The field covers the main activities of the Estonian Geology Service, managed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as coordinating positions within the Ministry itself. The Estonian Geologist's Service was established on 1 January 2018 in the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as the main public interest in the exploration of the earth is economic. The division of tasks in the field of land between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is specified in such a way that the Ministry of the Environment retains the competence to decide and analyse resources relating to the environmental aspect and to strategic planning ( resource efficiency, pollution charges, waste reduction), to grant different types of permits, for example, permits for general geological research, permits for geological exploration and permits for mineral extraction, and to grant other coordination and permits for the use and protection of land and mineral resources. Environmental sustainability will therefore remain ensured in the practical use of mineral resources. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is governed by analytics and research activities, such as forecasting the need for mineral resources, assessing the socio-economic effects of mineral resources, conducting, coordinating and financing national surveys on the ground, collecting, interpreting, systematising geological mapping as the first stage of the Earth's research. The organisation of the coordination structure of the rural area and the more precise establishment of the areas of responsibility give the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications a mandate to guide the exploration of the ground in defining the socio-economically justified national interest. The entry into force of the proposed amendment will shorten the duration of the procedure in the future and clearly improve the efficiency of the procedure as the link with economic development objectives is more targeted. The respective positions and competences have already been established in the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In the past, these tasks were performed by the Ministry of the Environment (Ministry of the Environment) on geological mapping, forecasting the need for mineral resources, defining the social and economical interest of the state, or they were uncoordinated at national level, as an example of national applied geology. I would ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U206	Thank you very much, Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no questions about this draft. For a co-report, I would like again to ask for a chair of the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Paul Puustusmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister has now spoken about this bill. This is a very ascetic law in the sense that the total volume of the draft is 2.5 lines. So, in itself, the minister was able to justify even for a very long time why these two and a half lines were necessary. And we have understood it in the same way in the Commission. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we discussed a draft 187 this year on 21 May and I chaired the sitting. Kalle Grünthal, Kaja Kallas, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Jürgen Ligi, who was Hanno Pevkur's alternate, Lauri Läänemets, Martin Repinski and Vilja Toomas, who was the substitute for Taavi Rõivas, were present. The Minister was also present on the Commission. He stressed the same things he was telling you right now. He also noted this or pointed out that the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act aims in particular at making amendments to the law with regard to coordination of the underground sector, organisation of the structure and more precise definition of the areas of responsibility. This would make the work more efficient. Aas said that the draft would also clarify the division of tasks in the field of land. Ms Jürjens, who had come to the Commission as a specialist, drew attention to the fact that the proposed amendment should be seen as urgent, even though it seems to be a technical supplement. He stressed that a number of processes had been entangled behind these changes and that this had also been addressed by economic operators. Jürjens said that the law should still enter into force as soon as possible in order to allow the state interest of certain prospecting permits to proceed smoothly. Kalle Grünthal asked whether this had anything to do with the question of Rail Baltic, on which Ene Jürjens replied that Rail had nothing to do with Baltic. Following this, the Commission took procedural decisions. I stress that all procedural decisions were consensual. It was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 3 June, that the first reading of the draft be closed, that the President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs be appointed as rapporteur and that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 5 June 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U208	Thank you very much. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U209	Good manager! Good waitress! I've been doing some research on this, and there are some things I don't understand. Three years ago, this ground law was passed here. Geology has been working for two years. And now I read here that the Ministry of the Environment is competent to have all kinds of permits, but the work remains under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. At the same time, some work, geological work, remains under the Ministry of the Environment. And I also hear it's urgent. It's been three years, life's been going on, but now it's urgent. And some work, some geological work still falls under the Ministry of the Environment, doesn't go over. It's not like a clear joint. On the one hand, the permits are under the Ministry of the Environment and the work is under the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but some geological work remains under the Ministry of the Environment. Why the difference? What's the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U210	So to be quite frank, it was not discussed in the Commission how it was three years ago and where it came from all of a sudden. However, the division of these tasks was asked. When explaining the division of these tasks between the two ministries, the Commission stressed that strategic planning, the granting of permits for general geological research, geological exploration and mineral extraction, and other coordination and permits for the use and conservation of land and mineral resources would fall under the control of the Ministry of the Environment. That's what they brought out. And the Ministry of Communications will then be governed by forecasting the need for mineral resources, assessing the socio-economic impact of mineral resources, coordinating research and development needed to exploit and develop the economic potential of the earth, coordinating and financing research on the ground, and conducting geological mapping and financing. These tasks were set out, and that is exactly how it was explained in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U211	Thank you very much. Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U212	Yeah, but I read here that the Environmental Research Centre is in the realm of the Ministry of the Environment, and it still deals with soil analysis, groundwater analysis and so on. I come back to my last question. Why is it not clear that one gives promises and deals with what you said, and the other deals with practical work? Why are some things kind of hung up? I've mentioned a few. Why is there no clarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U213	Thank you, that's a good question. In fact, if you think about it, that is not the way we were asked in the Commission. And that is why I have no answer from the committee meeting. But yes, I must admit that, if you look at it like that, that question can indeed arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U214	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to make speeches? I don't see any wishes, so I'm gonna consider the negotiations to be over. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 187. First reading is over. The deadline for tabling amendments is 5 June at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U215	Let us look at agenda item 9. This is a draft law amending the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants, initiated by the Isamaa Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group and the Estonian Central Party's Group. Let's start reading it first. For a presentation, please address a member of the Riigikogu, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U216	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have in my hands the draft law amending the Law on salaries of senior civil servants 166. It was initiated by the Isamaa Group, the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the draft was handed over to the Riigikogu on 25 March. In order to present this draft, there is also a need to introduce the context. We, as politicians, as members of the Riigikogu, and simply as members of society, understand perfectly that the crisis in the health sector that hit us is also present in the economy. And for many, this means that wages or other income will fall for very long months. In this context, the rise in the salaries of senior civil servants is unthinkable and unthinkable. Personally, I also stress that I really do not like the use of two types of sentences by politicians. The first is that I support the proposal, but I do not support the draft, and the second is when the legislator says that he cannot change some laws. Before this bill was completed, I communicated with a large number of representatives of different political parties and realized that for many, it is embarrassing for them that this wage increase has come to a time of crisis. Thanks to this, I have great hope that perhaps we will find a consensus and a solution on how to make this change. The current situation is embarrassing for two important reasons. First of all, I refer to the principle of solidarity. People's wages cannot rise if the people fail. And the second reason is that this money, which is directed to raise wages and which the Ministry of Justice estimates to be 2.5 million, would be needed elsewhere. For these reasons, there is a need to discuss how it would be wise to stop the increase in the wages of senior civil servants. The options may indeed be different, but there were no other proposals when the draft was drawn up, only what is stated in the draft. Before I present the substance of the draft, I stress that I am prepared to cooperate and debate in every way in order to improve the draft if we see that it needs to be done. And it's not just a message from me, I really want it. The main thing is that the objective of stopping or now turning back the salary increase is achieved. There are, in essence, two major changes to the draft, which have also been explained in the explanatory memorandum. In order to understand them, we will open KRAPS, or the KRAPS Act on the salaries of senior civil servants, and we will look at § 41, entitled 'Decreasing the weightings for the salaries of senior civil servants during increased readiness for defence and martial law'. According to the draft law that I will present, it is necessary to include a special situation which would, in essence, allow the salary coefficients of senior civil servants to be reduced even in times of emergency. As a second amendment, the Riigikogu would be given the right to temporarily reduce the wage coefficients of all senior civil servants listed in § 3 of the KRAPS Act. Let's reopen the current law. We see that § 3 lists in essence everyone affected by the draft: President of the Republic, Chairman of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister, Chairman of the Supreme Court, Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu, Auditor General, Chancellor of Justice, Members of the Supreme Court, Prosecutor General of the State, Ministers, Chairs of the Riigikogu committees and chairmen of political groups. In this list, members of the Riigikogu are not only members of the Riigikogu. This must be emphasised in particular with regard to this draft. The explanatory memorandum sets out the purpose and content of the draft law and lists the amendments to be made. As I mentioned, there are essentially two. Point 6 of the explanatory memorandum sets out the compatibility of the draft with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. And since this question, one way or another, is very important and has already caused controversy, I quote what is well marked in the explanatory memorandum. In the interpretation of § 75 of the Constitution, the Supreme Court found in its case number 3-4-1-18-08 on 23 February 2009 that the Riigikogu is permitted to grant an exception to the application of § 75 of the Constitution and to reduce the salary of the members of the Riigikogu who are in office. The Supreme Court explained (now I quote): 'The necessity of applying the described rule may also be due to the declared martial law, where it may also be necessary to change the salary of the members of the Riigikogu by the current Riigikogu in order to use the budgetary resources to protect the state. ' In the judgment of the Supreme Court referred to, the special situation is not mentioned as an exception to the application of § 75 of the Constitution, but it cannot be concluded that the special situation does not allow the salary of the members of the Riigikogu to be reduced. When granting an exception to the application of § 75 of the Constitution, it is necessary to assess whether there are exceptional circumstances requiring additional budgetary resources. According to the signatories, the special situation may have implications for the budgetary resources, including the functioning and restoration of the health system, and the need to compensate the State for the damage caused by the emergency situation is equivalent to martial law. These are the main content-related changes. It is clear that, before presenting this draft, I considered it necessary to ask many of their opinions, including, as I mentioned, the representatives of the various political parties. I found supporters above all among the coalition's associates. And I also asked the house councillors what they thought of this bill. And that's not all. I also communicated with the former Chancellor of Justice, Allar Jõks, who basically supported my thinking. I'm about to find the right paper to quote him. In his view, the exceptional situation and its consequences are of such a weight as to have a negative budgetary impact. I also looked at the minutes drawn up on the basis of the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It's probably more introduced by Paul in Puustusmaa, but there are some things I want to stress for my part. And they relate in particular to how the current Chancellor of Justice reacted. The current Chancellor of Justice has not formulated a position on draft 166. At the same time his representative, Olari Koppel, said that he felt that if the Supreme Court provided for certain exceptional circumstances in its resolution in 2009, which could reduce the salaries of members of the Riigikogu, it is possible to consider these exceptional situations and special conditions and to add something to the law. I also carried out an in-depth analysis of the judgment that was handed down in 2009. I also read the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice at the time, if I may quote that. In assessing the material constitutionality of the contested law at the time, the Chancellor of Justice notes that it cannot logically be concluded that § 75 of the Constitution constitutes an absolute prohibition to change the remuneration of the members of the Riigikogu for the current composition of the Riigikogu. This interpretation is not supported either by the wording of § 75 of the Constitution or by the general competence of the Riigikogu to adopt laws of any content. And finally, I also have an analysis of the Ministry of Justice, which has assessed the impact of getting the bill into law. It states here the financial impact of the indexation of the salaries of senior civil servants mentioned in KRAPS on the state budget this year: it would be 1.45 million. And the financial impact of the increase in the salaries of KRAPS-related posts through other laws is still about 1 million. Overall, wage and wage growth will therefore require around 2.5 million cash resources during this year, which is indeed a very large amount. And the last position I want to present to you is the position of the Government of the Republic. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic decided that they would not shape their position. But that does not mean that the Riigikogu cannot decide the matter. Finally, I really hope for cooperation. It is clear that this bill requires a broader consensus so that it is not approved by representatives of one, two or three parties. However, I agree that some changes will probably be needed after this first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U217	Thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U218	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! First of all, thank you! I think this is an extremely welcome proposal for this draft to become a law. There are some things you have already mentioned, but I ask you more specifically: what do you think, or in the light of your experience, who have worked so long on this bill, are the biggest obstacles that can stand in the way here? And how can we defeat them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U219	There may be several obstacles. The primary obstacle is always political will. If there is political will, things can move. That's one. The second is what has already been marked repeatedly in this Chamber: either there is a dispute or there is no dispute. Those who signed the bill think that there is no contradiction with the Constitution. But if you look at it legally, if there are any questions, it is in this area. However, I stress once again: in my opinion, there is no contradiction with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U220	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U221	Good manager! Good waitress! According to the law, the wages of higher civil servants are simple: they have a higher degree and a higher coefficient. Right now, I feel like this coming out, but it's profoundly populist. I don't think it's pretty from you. Did you not think that you could look at this whole thing: how these senior civil servants get paid and other people who are also very important to the Estonian state how much they get paid? The Prime Minister and the President will be paid according to the highest level you now want to lower, but at the same time the manager of AS Eesti Energia will receive 21000 euros, or four times more than the President and Prime Minister, who also have quite a responsibility. Eesti Pank is not a public limited company, but its manager receives twice the salary. Or the State Forest Management Centre, the State Income Institution, twice as much again. Three examples already. Didn't it make sense that we're doing the whole thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U222	I'm gonna start by asking you what populism is that you just mentioned in your first sentence or your second sentence. In my opinion, if the people are not doing well, we, who are primarily representatives of our own people, must take this situation into account, together with others. If someone comes up with a bill that wants to stress that we think like the people and take into account the situation that has developed in the same way as the people, I do not think it is populist. The way the salaries of senior civil servants are calculated, this formula is in the law I mentioned, in KRAPS. As far as the rest are concerned, I am telling you that if any other proposals were on the table, we would probably also be talking about other proposals. Unfortunately, there have been no other proposals on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U223	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U224	Thank you very much. Am I right to understand that, in special or martial law, the salaries of senior civil servants will be reduced? Is this also done in the Defence Forces, for example? That's one question. And I also understand that the aim is to save money: the coefficients are to be reduced in order to direct this money directly to national defence tasks. I wonder whether this concerns only civil servants and whether it also includes the Defence Forces and the Defence League, where wages are reduced in special or military circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U225	I've listed these posts, and I've mentioned what section you can look at, who it concerns. Indeed, this concerns the wage coefficients of senior civil servants, i.e. the salaries of the posts listed in KRAPS.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U226	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U227	Good President! Good waitress! The long-term President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, has pointed out that this amendment is not in accordance with § 75 of the Constitution, the purpose of which is that Parliament can change the pay of Members of Parliament, but for the next composition, not for itself. Are you so nice and commenting on that? What is your view on this: is it contrary to the Constitution or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U228	Thank you for that question. I have actually already touched on this issue, and there is also an answer to this question under point 6 in the explanatory memorandum. The primary draft analysis has been carried out and I would argue that there is no contradiction with the Constitution. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U229	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U230	Good manager! Good waitress! I probably have to agree with Eiki Nestor and the others, but my question is the continuation of my previous question. If the Prime Minister and the President and all the others who are coming to pick up the hangar there are senior civil servants, who is the head of the institution that provides electricity to Estonia or the head of Eesti Pank, which ensures the stability of the euro, or the leader of RMK, who is leading the forest management of the people? Don't they serve the country? Whom do they serve, and why doesn't our hands reach them now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U231	Good Peter! It seems to me that I have already answered this question in my first answer. But I would stress once again that indeed, I would be extremely pleased if other proposals had been made in the first and second weeks of the emergency situation. I am not saying that this draft, which I am now proposing by the three coalition parties, is the best solution, but no one has proposed any other solutions at the same time. That is why I am saying that it is certainly possible to review some things after the first reading, including the wording that I have actually talked about very thoroughly. These two changes, which we want to make, one of them specifically concerns the time of the emergency situation, maybe their wording needs to be changed after the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U232	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U233	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm not a lawyer, I can't judge whether it's unconstitutional or not. But we are in a situation where there really was a health crisis and in the autumn we are likely to face an economic crisis and a social crisis. I do not think there is a single person in this Chamber who would not have donated the amount of his salary increase to organisations that are in a very difficult position in this situation. We heard in Question Time today that the Minister of Social Affairs said that applications for gambling tax money are excluded from the call for proposals for small projects and that there are difficulties in allocating support to strategic partners. We have a children's fund, we have a cancer fund, we have very different funds, who actually fall into trouble with helping people in this state. Does that look normal to you? I do not object at all to the principle of solidarity and to this draft if it is compatible with the Constitution. But this issue has not yet been resolved. I'm sorry the time has passed!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U234	I say I understand your reasoning. At the same time, I think that donation is a good heart movement, a benevolent act that we can afford at this point, regardless of the size or size of the salary of the various people. If we decide to do something good, then there is indeed every opportunity. The other thing is, when I read about the analysis by the Ministry of Justice that the real effect of the raise is 2.5 million, I don't know if people donate so much out of goodwill or rather don't. It's everyone's heart thing. I think it would really be more effective to stop the rise in wages and then to channel the money that really is needed, even health care. However, I admit that if there were really different options on the table, I do not know that together we will decide something about the cost benefits during an emergency or during an emergency crisis, or about the funding of political parties from the state budget, or the same fund, which is as uniform and designed to meet some sort of larger target, all of these options would be possible. Each variant has some kind of strong side and some kind of weak side. The initiators felt that this option was probably the most effective one.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U235	Helmen Hunter, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U236	Thank you very much. I certainly agree that there has been a donation. Don't think that only after the raise has people started to donate, people have donated all the time. I think that a certain number of people have done so, whether they are in the Riigikogu or elsewhere. But you pointed out the issue of expenses. The cost benefits of a member of the Riigikogu are document-based, as opposed to ministers whose representation expenses are included in the salary even if you do not have expenses, if you do not accept groups or organise excursions, or if you do not have any other such expenses. I really enjoyed the question posed by Peter Ernits. We have multiple positions with higher salaries, but we are looking like just one group and we are creating an issue that does not quite equally solve the issue of different salaries. I don't really want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U237	Thank you. I am still commenting, although there was no specific question. But I agree that there are indeed many donors among us, and they do so regardless of whether or not there has been an increase in wages. That's one. Secondly, I understand your explanation perfectly. But the second option would be purely legal, perhaps even more difficult to implement than what is currently proposed. And three: you basically had the same question as a number of previous questioners. I will respond in this way, using the protocol that I have in my hands and which has been approved by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. For example, Taavi Rõivas agreed with the initiator's representative that the public sector should have solidarity with the private sector in times of crisis and find ways to cut costs. And I can agree with you that solidarity should be shown not only by senior civil servants, but also by everyone else. And as far as I understand the rhetoric of the government, in the autumn we are still talking about general cuts in the public sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U238	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U239	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Here's a question for me, until what time does it last? I have responded to the journalists in such a way that until justice is established. This is a vague definition, but we understand that the next indexation will come in April. But many believe that justice cannot be served. And then they're gonna ask me what's going on now that wages are falling. Will the people, for their part, propose that justice be established and then raised again? And my second question is about the infirm interest of the press. I have transferred money to the state budget with a dull face, and I will continue to carry it. But the journalist asks that please explain and justify why you are transferring money to the NGO. Is it like a sin to transfer money to non-profit organizations and there's something corrupt about some kind of non-profit activity? But how long do we have to wait for this justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U240	First of all, I will answer you that I do not share this criticism of the press. I think, in general, this is a very philosophical question of what we call what we get here. Since we are representatives of the people, it is my principle that we do not get paid here, but pay for serving society. And that's why the interest in where our wages go is justified to some extent. Now this question that you have been asked, how long then. Yeah, the bill said it was during an emergency. Unfortunately, I have to admit that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs began to process the draft on the day after the end of the emergency situation. But that is why I am working hard to see that, after the first reading, a different wording could be proposed in the form of an amendment, i.e. 'in times of crisis due to special circumstances', 'in an emergency' or something like that. In fact, the real situation is that we were hit by a health crisis. In order to deal with the health crisis with certain measures, the government chose to impose an emergency situation, which is why we have a relatively difficult economic situation. There were also forecasts in this Chamber yesterday that the economic situation would not get so easily better. That is probably why this issue of wage increases is topical until the current law brings about a revision of our wages. And we know it's an annual venture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U241	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U242	Thank you. Good Viktoria, first of all, thank you for this highly empathetic presentation. My question will perhaps come from my inconspicency. When you were talking about the financial impact of 2.5 million, how long has it been: one month, two months or what period has it been meant?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U243	Thank you for your question. I'm based on the paper I got from the Justice Department, which they published a few weeks ago. This financial impact has been taken into account until December this year. And unfortunately, with this answer, there is no exact diagram of this certainly a weakness of this paper, I would like to know more specifically how they have been calculated. But basically, yes, it's in the papers that the period is until the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U244	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U245	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You used this definition to answer the question of Tarmo Kruusimäe that we members of the Riigikogu are representatives of the people. This is known to be due to § 1 of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu. The right of representation, however, is laid down in the General Part of the Civil Code Act. Given that you are an older person in this room than I am, I ask you what operations we could do as a representative of this country or nation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U246	The answer to that question I owe you. I very much hope that we can continue this discussion after today's sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U247	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U248	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I see we're actually making laws for the future. And later it must not be as if a little paraphrased, says a psalm: 'We once had a situation that required clarification, because once there was a time, there should be a time. That's where the talk came from... ' And my question is, shouldn't we index these situations? So there's this coefficient in an emergency, there's this coefficient in an emergency, and maybe there's something else. In that case, when a new emergency or emergency comes, we do not need to start discussing it. I'm gonna be honest with you that I'm wearing this pay rise to the state budget with a dull face right now, because I don't dare make a transfer to any of the NGOs. I do not know what the correct answer to the journalist would be, why I support some NGOs. Well, I don't know, I'm kind of screwed up after. But I think it's right that if the people are having a difficult time and when an emergency has become an emergency, we would still be carrying that weight. I agree with this, but maybe a lot of ambassadors aren't. Maybe they think that if the situation eases a little bit, we could ease it, let's say, our support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U249	First of all, I encourage you not to be afraid to support the NGOs. Secondly, to pay back this raise you don't think is right, I think. And thirdly, as regards the option you have proposed, I would like to draw on the fact that there is one possible option in the draft, but, after the first reading, we can indeed discuss the amendments that are still possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U250	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U251	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I fully agree with the previous speaker, and I very much believe that all those in this Chamber are supporting some kind of charity or somebody. But at the same time, I had a message from Tarmo Kruusimäe that you transferred the money back to the state budget, one question. For me, it is completely confusing how these sums come from the state budget to those in need who have been hit the most during the crisis. And what has been the purpose of this bill, after all, to reduce wages for this particular reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U252	Thank you for that question. This is a broader philosophical question. The taxpayer pays taxes, we take money out of the taxpayer's pocket and we think that we are using this money wisely and we have the necessary trust. Why, if there is really a wage increase, should there be a different way of thinking? Why should there be some other kind of logic for this extra money? Still, we should act as wisely as we do now when using the previous amounts. And that is why I returned my extra money so that it would go where the authorities concerned felt it needed to be directed. However, I stress once again that if someone has decided to donate to a specific place, there can be no reproach. And, of course, even if there hasn't been a raise.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U253	Thank you, dear waitress. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I would like to ask for a co-report or a second presentation or a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs by Paul Puustusmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U254	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Viktoria for her thorough presentation. I have to say right away that the processing of bill 166 in the Commission was extremely interesting, exciting and passionate. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the concentration of lawyers is extremely high, starting with advisors and ending with members of the committee. There were therefore different ideas in the Commission on this issue, from wall to wall on this issue. Some of them had a deeper connection to legalism, some to populism. And, in a sense, if you answer the question of populism, it can be said that political populism still means attacking a situation or attacking a government, attacking a dominant power. Maybe that'll give you an answer. But indeed, we were able to discuss this issue repeatedly, or rather we were with the Commission twice to discuss this draft law. The prevailing watercourse, the differences of opinion were very impressive. I'll bring them to you, not a hundred percent, it'll be impossible, then I'll have to stay on the remote for too long, but I'll bring out the more important moments. We discussed this draft law in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on two days: 19 May and 21 May. It was exactly the same that Viktoria, who was a waitress, was present and answered the questions as much as it interested the members of the Commission. The Chancellor of Justice was also represented on the same day, and Olari Koppel, Director of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, was present. And, of course, the members of the committee were Paul Puustusmaa, Kalle Grünthal, Kaja Kallas, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Hanno Pevkur, Martin Repinski and Taavi Kõivas. In the Commission, Viktoria said more or less the same thing as here. Viktoria stressed that the draft was very important, particularly in the context of the emergency situation, and she was obviously not satisfied with the fact that it reached the Committee on Constitutional Affairs relatively late. I can't quite agree that it came to us late. We can review those dates later when somebody came up with questions. In principle, of course, it can be accepted that it is possible to move things faster in itself, but in the current situation, knowing the legal effects of this bill, haste might not have been reasonable. Viktoria Ladynskaya emphasised this bill in the committee, as she did here, that the emergency situation has been repeatedly compared to the military situation. This is a very serious event. Statistically, it has been confirmed that many people have lost their jobs or their income has become smaller, an economic crisis is expected. So it is clear that the salary increase for senior civil servants was and is still under discussion for two reasons. The first reason is solidarity. The second reason is that this money is needed elsewhere. The amount has been shown to us today, which is 2.5 million euros until the end of the year. Viktoria Ladynskaja stressed that point 6 of the explanatory memorandum states that the draft complies with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. He was of the opinion that the emergency situation, along with the accompanying effects on budgetary resources, could be equated with a military situation and, in this case, this money would certainly be needed more elsewhere. He stressed that before drafting the draft, he consulted several lawyers, including the former Chancellor of Justice, Allar Jõks, who essentially supported Viktoria's reasoning. He mentioned Jüri Adams, who are the authors of the basic text of our constitution and has said through the media that it is foolish to interpret § 75 of the Constitution in such a way that the Riigikogu must not reduce its own salary. If the needs of the budget are in a critical situation, for example in a war situation or in an emergency situation, this section can be interpreted differently. I asked for an assessment of this draft from the perspective of the Chancellor of Justice and to talk about the exceptions made by the Supreme Court in the decision of 2019. Viktoria referred to them repeatedly here today. Olari Koppel said that the Chancellor of Justice did not indeed shape his position on draft 166. However, he referred to the Chancellor of Justice that there may be a possible contradiction with the Constitution in § 41 (4) of the draft, which provides for the entry into force of the proposed wage regulation on the 1st day of the following calendar month, which would apply to the current composition. This was a reference specifically to the fact that we have strength and strength and, if there is political will, we can really reduce wages, but perhaps the problem is that we are going to reduce our own wages. That may be the question. It wasn't an answer, it was a reference. Taavi Rõivas agreed with the initiator's representative that the public sector should really be in solidarity with the private sector in the crisis, that is what Viktoriagi referred to and found ways of cutting costs. According to the garment, attention should be paid to the fact that the Constitution is quite rigid with regard to the salaries of members of the Riigikogu. He said that he understood that the ban on changing salaries in the existing Riigikogu would apply both to increases and reductions. The ban on reducing the salaries of members of the Riigikogu is actually an anti-popular measure. The garment said that it did not think that the state needed this money elsewhere was a strong enough argument to go to court for that reason. The additional monthly cost of raising the salary of members of the Riigikogu would be about 50000 euros. Well, here we can calculate, as far as I know, that's 2.5 million to the end of the year, speaking of all senior civil servants. Taavi Rõivas said that it is surprising for him that the coalition has not yet started to cut public expenditure, as the public sector cannot be an exception if the wages of other people working in the public sector are reduced. And there's a need for that. However, according to Kõivas, a reduction in the salary of members of the Riigikogu would in any case be contrary to § 75 of the Constitution. But the context was that the garment meant the existing composition, not basically the question. I pointed out that it was possible to lower civil servants' salaries without going into conflict with the Constitution. It is possible to make a legislative amendment that excludes members of the Riigikogu. There was also a reference in the Supreme Court ruling that changes in the remuneration of members of the Riigikogu are possible in such a way that the benefits of members of the Riigikogu are reduced. It is possible to reduce the cost benefits without conflicting with the Constitution and there would be no problem. We also had a little discussion today about the question of reducing benefits. And colleagues suggested that this money would go to the state budget. At the same time, very rightly, the question was raised that okay, let's reduce the benefits, this money will go back to the state budget. So? How would that help? Viktoria stressed that when she started writing the draft, there were no proposals on the table that she could have taken into account. And this fact he repeatedly emphasised in the Commission, and he did so here today. Kaja Kallas said that we must take into account that if there is a recession, the salary of the members of the Riigikogu will fall anyway, because it is linked to a certain coefficient. Kaja Kallas said that if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs supports this draft, it might be said that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs does not know the Constitution as it proposes to support the draft Constitutional Law. It was a very specific position. Hanno Pevkur, for his part, stressed that discussing the issue of reducing the salary of a member of the Riigikogu is a populist activity. Mr Pevkur considered that one option was the completion of the first reading of this draft, after which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could discuss it further. I said that the Commission could support the completion of this draft at first reading and then propose amendments. Hanno Pevkur said that when it comes to Koppel's proposal to ask the Supreme Court for an opinion on the draft, it does not produce a positive result. They usually leave the ends open in their answers, which is why it would not help. Kalle Grünthal said that Kaja Kallas has well pointed out the different situations and whatever the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decides in this case, these decisions could in any case be bad. Mr Kiisler pointed out that the Isamaa Group was one of the initiators of this draft and, in any case, he supported its referral to plenary and the completion of the first reading. Mr Repinski stressed that we would still be able to donate part of our salary in any case or help people in some other way. I said that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would only propose this draft to the House. I stressed that the decision-maker is still the House. That concludes the Commission's work on the first day. The debate continued on 21 May, and the Commission met more or less in the same composition. Jürgen Ligi also took part as an alternate member. Jürgen Ligi said that he considered this draft to be populist and unconstitutional. When the economy falls, this is reflected in the decrease in the salary of the members of the Riigikogu. He felt that it was not possible to deal with drafts that were contrary to the Constitution, and that the draft had already lost its topicality in the event of the end of the emergency situation. I said that the Supreme Court stated in its judgment the fact that the prohibition contained in § 75 of the Constitution may be temporarily transgressed if the reduction of the remuneration or the conversion of the basis for calculating it is due to the need to save the resources of the state budget in a situation where the economic growth of the state has slowed down. I also emphasised that the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice also suggests that according to the second sentence of § 75 of the Constitution, the prohibition is not absolute. It is the same as that which Viktoria pointed out here at least twice today and that it can then be treated differently. Jürgen Ligi ended his speech by saying that in the case of the Riigikogu, there is no need to twist the Constitution in circumstances where the Government of the Republic does not actually implement austerity measures. Following this debate, the Commission took procedural decisions. There was a decision to support the deadline for the appointment of amendments of 10 working days in the Riigikogu pursuant to the Rules of Procedure and Home Act. It was also decided to propose that this draft law be put on the plenary agenda by 3 June (i.e. by consensus), that Puustusmaa (i.e. by consensus) be appointed as rapporteur and that the first reading of the draft be terminated. The last decision was taken by a majority of 5 votes: 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U255	Thank you, good waitress, there are questions for you. Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U256	Thank you, Chairman. A representative of the good Commission. I just want to be more specific. You will always give a very detailed overview of what is happening in the Commission, in terms of name and other aspects. It also seemed to me that I might have misheard that you once used the expression 'Representative of the Prosecutors, Taavi Rõivas'. As far as I know, three coalition parties have submitted a bill. Could you elaborate on that? After the verbatim, you can look at it, but it seemed to me like you were saying...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U257	I'm deeply sorry if I made such a mistake here. If I did, that's the point. When I said that, there was definitely a mistake. The draft has been submitted by coalition parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U258	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U259	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I follow your words that the concentration of lawyers in the Commission is currently extremely high. I would like an answer to a question that the previous waitress, Mrs Ladynskaya, could not answer. This is about a member of the Riigikogu, or a representative of the people. I do not expect you to be able to respond to this, because obviously the reflection of this legal definition would require more debate. My question now concerns more what your vision is. If a public representative donates the so-called premium to the Treasury or directly to a specific person in need, which is the more effective outcome?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U260	For a lot of things, I've relied on a Chinese proverb in this remote control that every stick has two ends. That's right. Indeed, it depends on where to look. Of course, for anyone in need, the specific money that comes to him is of every help. Yeah. But, as I said, the question for me is that the money that remains in the state budget if no cost compensation is applied is not, in my opinion, the solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U261	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U262	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The phrase in your review was that since the bill is losing its time, because the emergency situation is over, there is no reason to discuss it. Can you comment on whether we need to discuss specific drafts only if they are topical? And do we really believe that there may never be a state of emergency on our way to life again?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U263	Thank you, Üllar! That's a good question. But in this case, we need to look at the context of this draft. When Viktoria presented it as a representative of the political groups, the idea was, yes, originally that it should be dealt with as soon as possible, perhaps even at a supernatural rate, in order to introduce changes immediately during an emergency. Well, technically, it wasn't possible. And one might say, either for good or for bad, but it should be noted that the emergency ended relatively quickly. It was practically two months, and now it's over. The normal situation is starting to recover, the situation is starting to return to normal. What's going on with the economy, we don't know exactly what's going on right now, so the future is going to show. All the percentages of decline that are predicted are very different. However, as regards whether the draft law must always be discussed when the issue is topical, I say that I do not. In fact, the idea of this bill is broader; it has very much referred to the need for solidarity, and in the greater picture it could affect future issues. There have been repeated references to a possible contradiction with the Constitution in a situation where everything cannot be defeated in one pan. The issue of reducing or increasing the salary of members of the Riigikogu is a very controversial issue. But by adopting this law, you can establish a salary for the next composition. By introducing all these changes, you can make the law better in the future, and somehow it will work. But it is up to us to decide that these changes are basically our own ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U264	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U265	Thank you! I'm asking you now, Paul, something I still don't understand. If this amount of wage increases is transferred to the state budget, how does this amount from the state budget reach the individual persons in need? How does this reach those who have lost most financially during the crisis? I mean, until December, during this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U266	Thank you, Kert! I don't really know how to make it. This is not a very simple question to answer. It doesn't depend on me or you or us taking it alone. It is a question of the budget, and it may have to be done, I don't know, through some extra budgets. But what I'm saying is, if we're talking about saving money so that we can channel it to a better place in the current situation, I'm still sticking to the fact that cost benefits can be reduced and more money can be diverted. But it can still be done by law corrections, then it could be realizable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-03_U267	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. We now have the opportunity to open negotiations, and the representatives of the political groups can take the floor. Looks like there's no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 166. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 17 June at 5.15 p.m. I thank everyone, ladies and gentlemen. Our trial today is over. Closure of the sitting at 6.08 p.m.
