ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-16_U1	Hello, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. As we all know, Estonia and the whole world are in a very difficult situation, and this also makes it very serious for us to look at how we can continue our work without the result being that we have an entire hall either quarantined or infected and we are no longer able to work. This is something we need to come to an agreement on. But first I will start the 8th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, for the government! I saw some procedural requests. Those after that, on the eve of the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-16_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates three draft laws. First, the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Education and Research Mailis Reps when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law of the Government of the Republic and other laws relating to the reorganisation into the Agricultural and Food Administration of the Agricultural and Food Administration of the Office of Agriculture and Food. Raivo Aller, Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. And thirdly, the draft law amending the medical device law and related amendments to other laws. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. All these three draft laws have been sent to the Riigikogu electronically. Thank you and your strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-16_U3	Thank you. Is there any further wish for the bill to be handed over? No, it's not. Then, on behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and we will process them in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. There are 31 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 70 members. I saw Andrei Korobeiinik's hand stood up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-16_U4	Thank you. Good chairman of the sitting! I have a proposal to change the timetable for this week's plenary work so that the plenary session only takes place today, 16 March, and Wednesday, 18 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-16_U5	Let us take these suggestions one by one. Do the political groups have any objections? Who does not agree with the proposal to change this week's schedule so that the hearing will take place on Monday and the Question Time will not be held on Wednesday and Thursday-Friday? [[The floor comments that there will be no hearings on Fridays anyway.]] Yeah, I'm sorry! Tuesday and Thursday. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-16_U6	I don't mind, but I'd like the board to comment that there are no legal problems and that's been considered, that's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-16_U7	Yeah, it's been considered in the parental pool. We also have the Legal and Analytical Department and the Head of Chancellery of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu involved and this is legally completely legal. Well, I'll take the other one for now. Priit Oniona has his hand up. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-16_U8	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have a proposal to withdraw item 1 from today's agenda, the draft law amending the Law on Eesti Pank (97 SE) initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-16_U9	Thank you. Is this acceptable, or is there a group against it? No, it's not. In that case, I shall put the agenda for this week, the agenda for the 8th working week of the 3rd session, together with these amendments, to the vote. The draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuels initiated by the Government of the Republic will then remain on the agenda, and that is all. There seems to be no more requests for speaking and no more lines. Then I shall put the adoption of the agenda to the vote and ask for a position. There were 32 votes in favour, no 0 against. The agenda has been approved, but we still have to vote separately on changing the timetable and we need to send a signal. Can we go to the vote? Yes, thank you! I am voting to change the timetable for the 8th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu so that the plenary session will take place only today, 16 March, and Wednesday, 18 March. Please take a stand and vote. There are 32 in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The work schedule has been changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-16_U10	We come to the only item on the agenda today. Third reading of the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to open negotiations? I don't think that's what you want. Then we shall proceed to the final vote. Can we vote? Good. Please then take a position on the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Governing Commission's proposal was to approve the draft. Please take a stand and vote. There are 32 in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. Thank you! The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-16_U11	Now anyone who wishes has the opportunity to use a free microphone. Looks like there's no free mike request. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The sitting is adjourned. Be well! Closure of the sitting at 3.13 p.m.
