ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 17th working week. Members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. The members of the Riigikogu do not have the wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U2	Today we have four points on the agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Committee on the Environment. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. We are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act, which was initiated by the Committee on the Environment, 109. Please take a stand and vote. 86 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U3	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the debate on the key national issue 'Estonian fiscal policy' initiated by the Special Committee on National Budget Control. Before we go to this item on the agenda, I will briefly present the procedure for this procedure. First, Jürgen Ligi, Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control (up to 20 minutes), and the time for questions and answers will be up to 20 minutes in the same way. The President of Eesti Pank Madis Müller will then present a presentation (up to 20 minutes) and will also be able to ask questions within up to 20 minutes. The presentation by Raul Eamets, Chairman of the Board of Budgets (up to 20 minutes) and the time for answering questions is also 20 minutes. Then Toomas Luman, Chairman of the Board of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (up to 20 minutes), will answer questions for up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask each of the rapporteurs one oral question. All members of the Riigikogu can participate in the negotiations, but I propose that the representatives of the political groups speaking first and then the other members of the Riigikogu be present. Okay. We are going to the second item: the debate on the key national issue 'Estonian fiscal policy' initiated by the Special Committee on National Budget Control. I would like to ask Jürgen Ligi, Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, to serve as a rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Today's debate encouraged the organisation of recent tendencies in budgetary policy and speeches on this policy, which is clearly not in line with our national conservation tradition, if that word means anything else, nor often with expert recommendations. Of course, the crisis we are in now is more serious economically or, let us say, more striking than there would be one medical crisis, in terms of numbers. (Sorry, I'm gonna set up a little bit of a place.) Our fiscal debates tend to back away from how much money someone got, not from where or what money comes from and what makes sense spending. But it hasn't always been that way. Our budgetary tradition is somewhat enshrined in the Constitution, first of all. Paragraph 116 of that provision states relatively gently, however, that the initiator must add financial estimates indicating the sources of revenue needed to cover the costs to the proposal to amend the state budget or its draft, which implies a reduction in revenue, an increase in costs or a redistribution of expenditure. Then you could add the cost sources, the cost we replace when we brag about putting money somewhere. The Constitution attaches importance to the State Budget Act, i.e. the rules governing the making of the state budget, by requiring 51 votes in the Riigikogu. Affordable spending has been an Estonian tradition in my opinion for two decades, and Estonia had a long reason to be proud of it, just as we are still proud of the digital issue. It was always part of the pillar with which Estonia could be presented, and Estonia could also be heard echoed back. Thanks to this, we have built a stamina that has helped us hard in the crises. From 1992 until 2015, tradition was also included in the coalition agreements, which promised the balance of the budget. All political parties have been involved. The result of this action is reflected in this graph. Sudden but still close to balance between revenue and expenditure, nominal but practical calculation. This is the best we've had in half our new independence period, but, of course, we've had even better instruments lately. We have clearly gone from balance to balance in times of crisis (Down East Crisis, Russian Crisis, Masu), but you will see a man leaving here right now, who I am about to talk about during the boom. We set aside reserves during the boom that have been able to burn in recent years. We actually started this earlier. If, in recent speeches, people who are responsible for finance are also dominated by the fact that we somehow slowed down our development, but could have built Estonia ready to build, that where we would then have only five-hole roads everywhere and so on, then in fact, Estonia has been the fastest developing ex-socialist state, I say, and it could even be said that it has been at the top on the scale of the world for the last 25 to 30 years. Of course, it also depends on the starting point, but we have nothing to be ashamed of among comparable countries, but we have still been able to brag about our low loan burden. He can do without it. There have, of course, been many misconceptions about the handling of the loan burden. First of all, we are not an ordinary US consumer economy, we are pouring money on it, and then we are going to have to take appropriate statistics. We are still a country that does not have its own currency, whose economy is very open, whose internal market can never be a permanent driver of development and who has to fight much more to make wise decisions. I would add to those who think that the key to development is the loan of more and more of these people, then in our case, it has always been the aspect that we have not been balanced in terms of revenue, but we have received up to 4% of our GDP, i.e. more than 10% of our budget in the form of European subsidies all the time. It is in itself an influx of money that also shakes our balance and our decisions. Relatively easy money in many people's opinion. If there had been more credit, we would certainly have seen bigger problems with the labour force, prices, inflation, economic structure. In this respect, we have actually had the fiscal stimulus all along, and so far there has been no reason to talk about the fact that the loan makes rich, as has been said. How did we come to this situation? These regulations have actually been, I mentioned first of all, the coalition contract, rather weak. It is true from 1993 that the budget is simply made up of revenue and expenditure which are balanced. In 1997, regulation of the reserve was added. We actually realized there's got to be some kind of supply, just like we have as civilians. In order to buffer fluctuations, the budget provided for a stabilisation reserve and a cash reserve. It was also mentioned that the draft law, which leads to an increase in the expenditure of the state budget and a reduction in revenue, is presented to the government for a position (it is natural today, the government has a apparatus that must also keep an eye on it, and the budget is primarily a government document) and the amendments must show the sources of cover. The reality was that in the 1990s the budget was made in this hall in such a way that the members of the Riigikogu wrote revenue into the budget and then distributed money to their interest groups. In this process, I also took part in the 1996 budget and in 1997, but then I didn't. This party we finished in 2002, when in fact the economic forecast became de facto independent and no more money printers and benefactors were played here by the fact that [money] was taken from the air and distributed. In any case, the budget strategy was also made compulsory at the time, but of course this party ended, I suggest, the government that took office in 1999, just passing by the government, was not allowed to expand the budget in the Riigikogu anymore and, of course, the issue of balance was put in conflict with international standards when financial transactions were laid down. What have we become of this? We've gotten that we've been a little ahead of time. Europe as a whole, especially some countries in southern Europe, have long lived in debt. Their debts have accumulated; they have had to spend a large part of their energy and economic potential on servicing their debts. It's been a few percent of their GDP all along, and it's made it harder to make smart choices. Estonia has been more stable in this respect. But if there is a tendency towards repentance in Europe, it is exactly the opposite in Estonia. The government, which started in 2016, also managed to make the 2016 budget significantly worse by raising expenditure and revenue, and in 2017 this decline started, to which international organisations began to respond with criticism. Of course, the most outstanding feature is down there in Greece, it has been very much acknowledged that Greece was helped. In essence, Greece was helped to improve itself, and now its fiscal position is much better than ours, but it started from a very deep north. My first memory of the Minister (or one of the brightest memories, say so, not the first) was when the Greek minister came in in spring 2010 or at the end of 2009 and announced that, you know, we thought we had 4% minus, but it was 12%. Well, after that it turned out to be even more. It was a hard shake for the whole of Europe, and from there these fruits began to fall. Countries fell into aid programmes and started to substantially improve their budgets. The State Budget Act went into transformation. We set out, of course, above all structurally, these are new regulations, the balance. We've dealt with different things. This was all at European level, the independence of statistics, which failed, for example, in Greece, the independence of the forecasts was agreed and laid down. The economic cycle was assessed, the view was taken that, in bad times, the state could also intervene, which means that spending in good times must be held back. This was, of course, a stronger teaching for Estonia. We were very hurt during the depression, we were very hurt at our own fault. Our economy, our private sector, our public sector were very full of air. If we are now saying that we have always missolved this problem at the government's chat points, then we did not really have another option, because we needed to let the air out, we were not in the euro zone and we did not have any credit facilities there. In fact, we didn't get the loan properly, but we wouldn't have been able to find an excuse to continue the old way. I recall that countries that behaved differently, such as Latvia (countries comparable to us), fell into aid programmes. One of the lessons of this period was the creation of the Fiscal Council. Today, Professor Eamets reports on his view of all its activities and powers to date. Of course, we were set up at that time to monitor budgets and also to monitor macroeconomics. While until now the views on Estonia had been rather positive, our fiscal policy was commendable, the change that took place at the end of 2016 also brought about a change in expert recommendations. We were being criticised for pro-cyclicality, expenditure growth, excessive budgetary stimulus at a time when the economy really needed to be cooled down, failure to respect the sustainability of the pension system, inefficiencies in social costs, lack of structural reforms. So, in fact, money was poured onto the economy, which also hid the need to weigh the costs. In 2020, the European Commission said that our policy has been pro-cyclical, i.e. aggravating, these years. As Ardo Hansson said, it also worsens the potential for economic growth from a long perspective. That is what we have been saying since the beginning of 2017. The National Audit Office has just pointed out that our actual budget balance is dramatically worse than even the forecast. When the budget rule got loose, they promised themselves a minus that wasn't adequate. Real life lost control of expenditure, lost years in one direction, in the negative direction, both nominally and structurally. Things are getting worse. One year's defence costs were down last year, largely due to loose conduct. The public investment table is also here, but I do not just want to show these figures, but to remind you that, despite the fiscal balance policy, we have been at the top of Europe all along in terms of the level of investment. Watch and check! Coronal crisis, of course. There's been a lot of hoaxing over the past, they say it's right now. In fact, no one has called into question borrowing at that time. This is the budgetary policy of survival. The problem came from outside the economy and because of restrictions, so there can and has not been any resistance to borrowing. There's no point in pointing the finger at it. However, there is a problem with what is being done with this money. Our committee has been monitoring how slowly money actually reaches the economy, with the exception of wage subsidies or sickness funds. KredEx's activities are stopped, direct payments are taken from the flight, but less than 10% of KredEx has been launched. That's absurd. KredEx stands for three quarters of measures. This is what should keep companies alive and allow them to be leveraged through banks, but these conditions have been designed so that banks cannot lend under such conditions. It's been known for two months, it's been passed on to the government. I believe that we are facing more exciting times or just as exciting times as we are at the time of the recession, because all the structural and budgetary problems are hidden away under the loan money. On the one hand, the loan money has not been used, on the other hand, these decisions are also hidden in this Chamber. There was another expense yesterday, which I could criticise with the question. It has a long-term impact and does not take account of the reality at all. So in a row, tens of millions, often hundreds of millions, of problems come into the budget. In the supplementary budget package, it is, of course, strikingly pointless to stimulate demand by reducing energy excises, and it will not enter the economy while there are supply constraints. The subject of the second pillar has been brought here in such a way that it will have to be repaid by the state at the price of a fast loan in the future and has no relation to the nature of this crisis, but it will be a cost in the future. We also have very many shortcomings in the proportions and conditions of the measures. It's all waiting to be resolved. At the time of the recession, it was clear that if the money was less, the entire budget would have to be redeployed. It is now being said that the country's economy is on the wages or taxes of public earners. No one has said anything like that in our tradition so far, and now the Minister of Finance says there is nothing to be cut. But let's hope that by autumn, our eyes will be clear and we won't flood any more problems with the loan money. However, we would be able to use credit money for structural reforms in the economy, such as the green turn, to digitise the economy. But I can't imagine where this trust credit is coming from right now, if it's actually... I'm almost done. Can I have a little extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U5	How much more time do you need?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U6	Three minutes, maybe?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U7	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U8	Very generous of you! Climate problems have been consistently denied at government level, their importance and the opportunity to solve them, there has been some sort of paranoia in terms of digitisation, right, maybe e-elections are a symbol, but not only. We haven't had any structural changes in the agenda, but we'd expect them. When we started with these things in the spring, we spoke a very similar story that, at first, rapid, precise survival reforms, more focused, in the sense that they would tilt the economy towards sustainability. But we have waited a long time for these discussions. Something's coming from the government, of course, but I'll mark it anyway, because I hope it will, but I don't know. This still requires a review of public finances by autumn, and this requires the spring of spring to be over, so it actually called for a rethink of the crisis measures two months ago, especially with regard to KredEx. A lot of money goes for direct lending and where there is leverage, that money actually stands, as has already been said. Loan money has long-term effects; it is not just about the price of the loan. It will, of course, worsen the credit conditions that we have in the past, but it will also create new addictions, new costs. It's being ignored all the time. There is always the idea that we will build Tallinn or we will build the country. There's no such thing. All things in the country must go consistently. One of the things experts constantly overestimate is that they can respond to crises by investing. Actually, it's not. Investments can be shifted a little forward, but they are not simply taken off the shelf in a ready form, so that technologically suitable procurements are carried out. Such things cannot be used for operational purposes. The scale of these investments, which concern construction, is beyond the economic cycle, so that there is a risk of falling into boom time rather than downtime. In fact, a little criticism of experts: do not routinely use the economic policy recommendations of the 1930s; still, think about what is possible today, when infrastructure is predominantly available and resources are predominantly used, there is no surplus labour. But of course, this kind of waste creates new costs and, unfortunately, leaves the reform needs hidden and undermines the quality of decisions. So I think that the focus of the debate on fiscal policy should be on the quality of decisions, which is sustainability, not on whether and who receives how much money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U9	Thank you. You have questions too. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U10	Oh, what a pleasure!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your presentation, you referred to certain changes in budgetary policy in recent years. We remember these debates here when the first government of Jüri Ratas came. Then we were also projected that we are now letting the budget out of balance and hope to achieve this balance in four to five years' time. It just kind of moved on all the time. Today we have reached a situation where these numbers are even more negative than we heard in this Chamber at the time. Please say, this so-called borrowing, which we have not, in itself, criticised in this way during the crisis, but, in essence, criticising how sustainable it is for a small, open economy and what it means for taxpayers of future generations. Is it possible to come out of this spiral at one point, if you cross the critical line, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U12	It is a very serious question in this respect that the strength reserve created in the past and the low tax burden allow for a long period of foolishness. But the money on top creates new imbalances, addictions and inefficiencies. If we have always had the understanding that the state must be structurally efficient, then the money that comes on will change that, after all, it will relax efficiency. We have been able to develop quickly without easy money. Of course, there has never been such a financial environment where money is simply printed. It's not like we're gonna keep printing it, the other half of the balance sheet stays up, obligations have to be served. In fact, the budget rules are actually recovering to some extent, probably not in their original form. We do not know exactly what will then be agreed at the end of a completely new paradigm when there is a flood, where the central bank has begun to intervene massively, which was not before, and other institutions. Well, you don't know that exactly. But we do know how a country with too much money works. He eats his own fat and starts making mistakes, he can no longer make wise decisions and can not move effectively. In the meantime, former finance ministers come along. I may not have commented that the best finance minister in the world was working at a time when we only had a nominal number, it created a huge surplus, and we made decisions that helped us for a long time. But, of course, the greasing of the boom cost the public sector, and during the recession, very large corrections were clearly needed. Let me see if I can figure out the difference between structural and nominal equilibrium. I've lost this drawing, yes, I felt that one of the drawings was missing. In broad terms, how I'm going to say, if we had a structural minus at some point in time, you can't say, right, we didn't see it in the booming season, the same way was a nominal plus in the same order of magnitude. We've come down from a very, very big crash with our knowledge and real life. What happened in 2016? The carefully thought-out and weighted new fiscal framework, as well as the structural balance indicator, were disrupted. Very eagerly, the disc was replaced by a different, opposite one right here on the remote. The man who was the Minister of Finance at the time does not remember the name and he is not in the hall, was once a very good ally as chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As a minister, he began to talk about how we are not satisfied with economic growth. It was clear to everyone that economic growth was already on the border at the end of 2016, in terms of labour, inflation recovered, there was virtually no free labour anymore, European demand had recovered, we had no incentive right. This caused long-term damage to the economy. After all, in a sense, the public sector always competes with the private sector, at least for the labour force. Those mistakes we amplified back then. This dependence is also described in this graph how we have planned the deterioration of the situation and it has worsened even more. The National Audit Office drew special attention to the ongoing monitoring, that the Minister of Finance is the one who holds a sustainability account in some sense and does not sit in Excel (I never worked with Excel), but puts all initiatives in line, appreciates their sustainability, of course, not the minister alone, and then makes decisions in the collection. But they're still letting the robin through, I don't know if every week, but every month. And here comes the graphs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U13	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The tables in the report state nicely that before the previous financial crisis in 2005-2007, the Estonian budget surplus was the largest in the European Union. I dispute that this balance will be assessed in a structural way afterwards. There was no such term at the time, these estimates are arbitrary and these estimates are not verifiable, for example as regards the assessment of the structural balance in 2008. What I am asking is what are the instruments in the European Union (which also concerns Estonia) with which to maintain a structural balance and to ensure that the balance rule is respected. If we look at this new recovery plan for the European Union, which is extremely dedicated to solidarity, then looking at these elements there, we can see that debt figures will be hidden and responsibilities will be shared. This will, after all, take further away the incentive to balance its budget. What are the instruments in the future that will ensure that the balance rule is respected?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U15	Thank you. Even I don't know the future. We have not actually been in this debate so far and it is difficult to get there because the Minister of Finance has positioned himself as a denial of the European Union. As far as I know, he also went to a ministerial event today (maybe I'm talking a rumor) without the government's position. When I went, this was a great opportunity for me to fight for Estonia's national conservation fiscal policy and to comfort, criticize, say not too overly. It was really a very inspiring time. He was encouraged to reform; he personally encouraged ministers not to give up. It was mutual, because it was actually expected of Estonia. But what's now, I don't know. I really don't know why we go there, what we're talking about, whether we curse the European Union or the black people, or what we're doing there. Nothing is reflected back, there are no understandable debates in finance. I've tried it many times, both of us, okay? But this point of appeal is, of course, close to my soul. I brought it in the same key that in the middle of the last decade, during the boom, we were based on the best knowledge, I would even say more, almost the best opportunity. If society has not experienced such a crisis and sees wages and all things growing, the economy is growing, forecasts show an unstoppable increase from 20 years to 20 years of age, certainly was one of the graphs I have seen, then how to say that we must now take back. But we did. We put aside and left some extra budgets unfinished, which was a long tradition that Tallinn now lives from party to mouth. Very easy money, very fast growth, but it is still being spent several times a year. Why did I tell you that? Not necessarily to the praise of the government, but also to the lesson of why the structural rule was established at all. It's wrong to beat it now. It reduced our chances of making a mistake. After all, this easing of the structural rule in the 2016 decisions and the 2017 Act were immediately criticised by experts and reflected in the deterioration of our situation. All this talk about how the economy must be stimulated to see if you are satisfied with this economic growth, which was obviously quite red compared to the unused resources Except those who did this aren't all in office anymore, not in this job.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U16	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U17	Thank you, Mr President. 'Dear Minister' would like to say. It does sound somewhat controversial, but it must be acknowledged that the corona crisis was a great blessing for a sitting government. The piggy bank was crushed, all the money was spent, and obviously we received negative extra budgets. The relaxation of the budget rules gave a huge opportunity to spend a lot of money, spend a lot of money for the present and even for the past, including a coalition agreement. The best option of the crisis, or one of the few positive features, is the opportunity to make structural changes and the pressure to do so, but no one has said anything about it. Can you give some examples, some of the measures aimed at the future, which would lead to structural changes? Among other things, would this really not be the ideal place to cover the promise made to scientists that 1% will go to R &amp; D expenditure? This deficit amounts to EUR 40 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U18	Thank you. I really don't know any practical steps. But I also read out a few things: a green turn, a digital turn, a more knowledge-based economy. My passion, of course, is science and education. This shift would be very convenient at the moment, even if it is because GDP is also falling. By clinging to the number, it will be possible to continue to do so in the future. Indeed, this is a very convenient crisis. If the same government were to start fulfilling the election promises right now, it would be pretty bad to look at the budget as a reviewer, because nothing could be done. But now there's some things that are going to be written in, right, so nobody's going to do the math, nobody's going to do the math. It's pretty scary, I'll be honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U19	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U20	Thank you. Dear waitress, The current situation and the great desire and will to borrow have even been compared to euphoria. Euphoria is known to be an intense elevated mood, accompanied by high self - esteem. You have explained very well here what this excessive spending entails and all these things. I'm gonna ask you this. Estonian cultural history is a good metaphor; it is a wise advisor. If you could give some wise advice now in view of Estonia's future, what advice would that be, with all the euphoria of borrowing and the current situation at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U21	Thank you. This is not my world at all, which has now emerged in public finances. I should still start taking full responsibility for being held accountable. At present, it is not possible to be held responsible if money is only poured out and decisions are taken by majority vote that increase long-term costs rather than reform. But yes, it was also mentioned here that this loan money, if it is so easy and cheap, should be directed towards structural improvements, which we have been actually advised of from the end of 2016. The IMF is starting to blame us for what you're doing to stimulate demand, so do something useful. It is known where we have the real economic problem. The problem is not about taxation, it is about structure, climate, digitisation. So such a cheap loan would be so easy to use now to improve the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U22	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U23	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! In recent years, we have seen, alongside strong state capitalism, that the share of debt in GDP has tripled. You talked a lot about structural balance and nominal balance. In addition to this, it is probably reasonable to look at the same loan number as having 22% of GDP instead of 7% of GDP. But in addition to the increase in the loan burden as such, I still think that the problem is that basically nothing misses this huge loan. There's nothing left, it's all fried up somewhere without knowing what's been done. You mentioned, a couple of times, in your presentation and in your answer to questions, the greening, the digitalization. I would like you to get a little more specific and, for example, mention three examples where a loan could be used so that it leaves a sensible thing behind for the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U24	In particular, state aid rules are currently being put on hold. We could, after all, give more direction to state aid for these two keywords. But it's a long-term thing. I am certainly not a miracle worker in this sense, who has simple solutions to take from his hat, but the point of view really should be that we do not just live on this money or spend it, but turn it either way. I haven't, like, heard of it at all. But there's no credit. People who have sacked the European Union cannot make sensible decisions in the European Union. Those of you who have had a climate problem can't talk about it. Those who have mistrusted the digital society, I understand, are at least consistent. But I'm not the person who keeps reading these subjects. There must be more of them. But we are now within the framework of budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U25	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U26	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! We will see a new Human Development Report here in two days' time, which unfortunately confirms that this euphoria, which was mentioned by Mr Tiidus, does not aim for human development either. We are in a dignified position, in the 30th place, but we are stuck there, and there has been no development since 2016. It seems to me that this euphoria involves blaming everyone else for their troubles. State capitalism is a matter of late; it seems to me, too, of indiscriminate accusations by entrepreneurs. Businesses are still coming to talk, but perhaps from your point of view, perhaps a few words: how do you see the role of entrepreneurs alongside all that you have talked about?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U27	Thank you. I'm trying not to blame you. I'll tell you what. Entrepreneurs are not the ones to whom the state should read the words, the state lives on them, and not the other way round, as public earners with their taxes would keep up the business that we have now heard as a basis for economic policy. But it is actually very controversial, and entrepreneurs have said things that are problematic in their private interests. For example, it has been said that restrictions are as strict as possible, in the hope that the state will pay them off. I hope that Toomas Luman will talk about this today, too, and I have no idea of it, and I did not review his slides, just in case, that in fact, the country is not inexhaustible at a distance and does not come from anything other than the pockets of entrepreneurs. In this respect, a restrained expectation on the part of undertakings would also be helpful. But, yeah, we're still counting on their wit. We are responsible for the country, those who still rely on them, the opposite is not a long-term solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U28	Andres Sutt, one last question, we're out of time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The past is well documented in your presentation as well as by the National Audit Office and the Budget Council. You have also made a very beautiful point in areas where you think it would be wise to invest so that our future and the future of our children are brighter. My question is simple: why do you think they don't?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U30	Thank you. I don't know how to put myself in that position, but I mean it a little bit. Perhaps when I speak on behalf of the Commission, I should not be so frank. But the problem is that we cannot talk about climate policy if what is happening is already definitely suffocating our children, not to mention nature. I would still put nature forward all the time or in human nature, not in front of human nature, as almost all politicians say, man first. It's not like we're outside it and putting ourselves above it if we want to continue on this planet. In the case of digitalization, I've seen last year... I am talking about digitisation, but it is too narrow, we are talking about research and development, we have had initiatives here on this subject. I've seen enormous mistrust for science. How can a minister with a mediocre education fight for science? He feels distrust because he doesn't know exactly what's going on. It's been a deal, so let's put 1% in there. I, by the way, disproved the idea because I was still looking at the balance sheet. I myself have been in this role when I fought for this 1% directly, and I also defended the Minister of Education a little, it was in the Ansip government above all, but as Minister of Education I fought for it, it is a matter close to my heart because of the origin of the subject. It's so easy for me to talk about it. But I did not recommend that such a deal be concluded at all, because all the electoral promises were so out of hand with the parties. One party signed not because it was too unambitious, but because it simply did not participate in debates on science and education. It's just that it wasn't their field, their voters, their interest. The politicians, unfortunately, have a lot of education and the face of their constituents. But this has not been discussed by the Commission. I hope that I will not be involved too much with this Commission right now. This is my national-conservative worldview, which now sounds and which I would like to bring back to finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U31	Thank you. Unfortunately, the time for questions has passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U32	Time's up. Can I ask myself a question? I thought we agreed that we each had one question for each waitress. But time's up, right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U33	I'm sure you can do it, but outside the big hall. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Okay, let's move on to the agenda. The next waitress is Madis Müller, Governor of Eesti Pank. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am really happy to present the views of Eesti Pank on matters related to the state budget for the second time here in a week. The state budget is, of course, one of the most important instruments of law and policy making. As a central bank, Eesti Pank has often spoken about the state budget, but we have also thought clearly about where our competence in this regard is, the extent to which we can go with our comments. In our view, it is not for the central bank, for example, to give an opinion on whether the state should no longer collect income using income tax, VAT or any other tax, as well as whether, on the expenditure side of the state budget, the increase in teachers' salaries should be preferable to those of the police, or whether social benefits should be increased. These are clearly political choices on which different political parties and social groups have different views, and there are no only correct answers here as a rule. As a non-political institution, it is inappropriate for the central bank to speak about such choices. However, as the central bank assesses the situation and prospects of the Estonian economy in its work, we have considered it appropriate to point out whether the state budget in general reasonably takes one step in the economic situation, precisely as regards the balance of revenue and expenditure in the budget. In recent years, like the Ministry of Finance and most other countries and international institutions, we have considered the "structural balance" principle to be the right goal for Estonia. It says that if the economy is in a period of rapid growth, the state should not spend more than it collects money from people and companies in the form of taxes and other incomes, otherwise the government would'start the economy further at the wrong time', spending money that could lead to further price increases and weakening the competitiveness of Estonian companies. On the contrary, if the economy is in recession, as it is today, it is reasonable for the government to spend more, if possible, through the state budget and thus provide support to the economy. In view of the above, I would like to talk today about two issues. Firstly, how the Estonian government has been able to follow the principles of a balanced budget in recent years, and secondly, what fiscal policy is sensible in today's economic situation. I'll start with a look back. If we look back to four years, 2016 to 2019, we can clearly say that the Estonian economy had good times in those years. Although it is always difficult to measure the temperature of the economy, it is mostly estimated using the so-called GDP gap indicator. This indicator measures whether growth is currently above or below its long-term growth path. The European Commission's assessment shown in the figure shows that the Estonian economy was stronger than average in recent years than in other euro area countries. For example, there were only three euro area countries in the period 2016 to 2019, where the economic upheaval was even stronger than in Estonia, according to this indicator. Probably the most obvious indicator of the good economic situation in recent years was developments in the labour market, where wage increases over more than five years were very rapid and unemployment fell below 4.5% by the end of last year. At such a time, it is appropriate for the government to draw up a state budget with a surplus. What was the state of the Estonian state budget in those years? Since 2016, our public budget has been in deficit, both nominally, i.e. without taking account of the state of the economic cycle, and increasingly in structural balance calculations. At the same time, we can see that the budget deficit was higher than in the euro area as a whole, despite the fact that our economy was better than the euro area average. Looking back at the different countries of the euro area, there were five euro area countries in this period with an even greater structural deficit than Estonia. When it comes to structural deficits, it is important to understand that this is an indicator that is very difficult to measure in real time. For example, discussions were held between Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance on how to accurately assess economic growth in Estonia and whether it would be appropriate to prepare a budget in surplus or not. 2019, however, it was already clear to everyone that the economic situation in Estonia is very good and the budget should at least be balanced. Unfortunately, in the last two years, the government also failed to meet its own goals and the budget deficit was larger than planned. It is interesting to compare the situation in Greece, where the state budget has been in a strong structural surplus. There are two factors behind this. Firstly, Greece's economic growth has remained below the pace of balanced growth that the country can achieve, and secondly, after recovering from the previous debt crisis, they have been subject to austerity measures, which have ultimately led to the structural surplus of the Greek state budget, which is the largest in the euro area. It is also interesting in terms of dynamics to assess how the budget deficit in the various countries has changed in recent years. Looking at the changes in fiscal policy measured in figures, Greece, first, stands out in this comparison with the deterioration in balance. As has been said, the situation in Greece is very different from that in Estonia. The austerity measures and weak economic growth had led to a large structural surplus in the state budget, and in recent years the surplus in the Greek budget has decreased, or the change in this sense has mathematically also been negative for them. Estonia will come in this ranking immediately after Greece. So we are the euro area country that has increased its budget deficit the most. In the euro area, on average, fiscal discipline has been better and budget deficits have not increased. In the context of a deep economic downturn, the state budget with a deficit is indeed appropriate for economic recovery. In countries where public debt is lower and reserves are higher, the ability of the government to support the economy in times of crisis is much better. Estonia's ability to support its economy is also good because our sovereign debt is low and, as we saw on the successful bond issue last week, thanks to this and probably also thanks to the membership of the Estonian euro area, investors have enough faith in the solvency of the Estonian state. However, we can say that, in previous years, if we had pursued a balanced budget objective, we would have been better prepared for the current crisis. Based on a simple nominal calculation, Estonia's budget in the last four years is in deficit at 530 million euros. If we had managed to keep the budget at least in nominal balance, the country's buffers would have been higher when the crisis entered. If, on the other hand, we had pursued the objective of structural balance described above, the Estonian state would have had a margin of around 750 million euros in the previous four years when it entered the crisis, which we could now mobilise without lending so much additional money. I think there's something to think about for the future. After recovering from the current crisis, it is worth thinking about how we can get the Estonian state budget back to a more balanced and long-term sustainable path as soon as possible. I now come to describe the current economic situation and the appropriate fiscal policy. The economic outlook for Estonia, the euro area and the world at the moment is very uncertain and difficult to predict. Eesti Pank's summer forecast, which has been made in cooperation with other euro area central banks, will be officially published tomorrow. For example, the European Commission forecasts Estonia's economic downturn of 6.9% in 2020, which is close to the euro area average, for which the European Commission forecasts a slightly higher fall of 7.7%. According to the baseline scenario of the new European Central Bank forecast, the economic downturn in the euro area could be 8.7% this year. According to the forecasts published so far, both Estonia and most of our major trading partners will only regain their pre-crisis level by 2022. However, the recovery of government revenue may take even longer. In other words, we must be prepared, for at least two years, for the country to go through considerably less tax revenues than before. As the economic crisis is global, the exporting sector alone will not get us out of the crisis. Therefore, in the current situation, it is natural that fiscal policy is trying to boost the Estonian economy as much as possible. In a context of such a deep recession, the budget deficit is therefore appropriate. While the economic recovery is supported by the monetary policy of the euro area, there is a need for support from fiscal policy. With this in mind, the European Commission has already relaxed both state aid and budgetary rules. Of course, it is very important to continue to monitor closely what our spending is on, and to ensure that the costs of recovery from the crisis are really temporary, without bringing about a persistent high level of expenditure and a country's role in the economy. Just as most other countries of the European Union responded to the economic problems caused by the outbreak of the Estonian corona virus with a support package consisting of various measures. Estonia's previous good fiscal policy has made it possible for us, at this very difficult time, to find the means to support and reinvigorate the economy more easily. Our low public debt and the high level of long-term sovereign ratings have ensured that credit is favourable to us. According to preliminary estimates, Estonia's first package of aid measures is slightly higher than the average given the size of the Estonian economy compared to the packages of measures adopted in other European Union countries. The temporary relaxation of state aid rules has enabled countries to support entrepreneurship, and a significant part of the aid measures in Estonia have been targeted specifically at companies, such as wage support measures, guarantees and loans from KredEx and MES, as well as indirectly tax reductions to prevent job losses and a wave of bankruptcy. We still have a lower share of measures to support households directly than other countries, but, for example, the compensation measure indirectly supports households in addition to companies. The package of aid measures also allocated funds for investments. That's what we see as positive. In general, there were few planned public investments in the first aid packages in the European Union countries, and Estonia is even an exception in a good way, provided, of course, that these projects are well selected and can be launched quickly enough. Last week, when I went to introduce you to the Eesti Pank report last year, you had a lot of questions about the European Commission's proposal for a European Union budget, especially as regards the so-called "re-launch facility." As with many economic issues, this initiative also has aspects that are not directly relevant to the economy, such as the debate on how solidarity Member States should be in the process of jointly supporting each other in coming out of the crisis. The European Commission's proposal is based on the principle that the corona crisis is affecting all European countries and that it is in the interests of all of us to recover as quickly as possible. This is certainly true in the case of Estonia, because our economy is very dependent on exports and how our trading partners are doing. So far, in Eesti Pank we have generally supported the position that each country should be responsible for its own public finances. This is also the way it has been agreed in the Treaties of the European Union. The responsibility for servicing its own loans is also in line with the fact that countries are free to decide on public expenditure. In the current very difficult economic situation, fiscal policy support is appropriate to the economy in all the countries of the European Union. However, since the depth of the crisis and the ability of countries to cope with their own forces vary, a common initiative at European Union level is also understandable. It is important, however, that the additional facility proposed by the European Commission is temporary, and such measures could indeed only be used exceptionally to tackle the very serious economic crisis. If the establishment of the re-launch facility is approved by the Member States, we should also be prepared to decide wisely where to target these additional funds in Estonia. The central objective here could be to increase the growth capacity of the Estonian economy. To this end, investment in digitalising the economy and in climate-friendly new technologies, both of which are actually identified in the Commission's proposal as separate objectives, as well as supporting research and education systems and people's retraining and investing in productivity-enhancing investments, is appropriate. However, since this is temporary support, it is reasonable to avoid the use of this additional money for a permanent increase in current expenditure. That concludes my report, and I will be happy to answer all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U35	Thanks for the presentation. You really do have questions. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm going to start with the final part of your report on the re-launch facility. If we look through this and in the context of today's subject, what do we see? Firstly, the distribution of loan liabilities; secondly, the suspension of budgetary balance rules for an unknown period; thirdly, the central bank, i.e. your own unprecedented programme of buying-in of government bonds (there are countries mainly); fourthly, the concealment of loan burden indicators. The list is not exhaustive. I am saying that, in the shadow of the crisis, we are moving away from the principles of balance and responsible budget. But you can contradict that statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U37	Thank you for a very good and important question. Indeed, if we look at how far the budgets of the Estonian state budget and, in fact, the budgets of other European countries are going from balance this year, we can say that we are now moving away from the balance target. You referred to what the European central banks are doing, buying bonds and thus channeling additional money into the economy. This, I think, is also not sensible in the long term for a permanent policy and balanced action. In this sense, you are certainly right that we are moving away from a balanced state. I think this is temporaryly justified given the depth of the current crisis, but it is certainly necessary to be cautious about it, as I said when referring to the Estonian state budget, that we would not permanently raise the state expenditure base too high so that the expenditure that we are spending would really be temporary by nature and with the shortest possible effect, precisely to support the exit from this crisis. Similarly, speaking of the central bank and the support provided by the central bank, I think it is very important that it is temporary and we are also prepared to turn back our support measures as a central bank at the right time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U38	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Of course, your modesty is worthy of respect; Eesti Pank should certainly not interfere in politics. Although I personally think that Eesti Pank's speeches could go a little deeper than that proposed by you in order for governments to get the best expertise. But that's the kind of thing I'm asking. You described the balance of the state budget and this knowledge. If I noticed correctly, if we had acted adequately in this situation, we should not have taken 750 million additional loans now, but we would have had a buffer. Where does your optimism come from when, in years of the greatest economic growth, the budget went down? What logic do you expect this type of government policy to change?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U40	Indeed, our calculations, to which I referred, suggest that if we had followed the principles of a structurally balanced state budget in the last four years, which we have tried to promote in Eesti Pank, then this 750 million additional buffers would have existed when we entered the crisis. I also stressed the need to be ready to withdraw expenditure as we emerge from the crisis and to emerge quickly from these crisis measures in order to get public finances back on a more sustainable path. But when you ask me where my optimism comes from, I didn't actually express an assessment of whether it was optimistic or pessimistic, I rather stated that it would make sense. How's it really going? I hope, of course, that as members of your Riigikogu, and also the government, you will follow the same principles and that is exactly how it will be. Time will tell.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U41	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, Half of the question was already asked by the previous speaker. My question is about a slide. In the face of such a deep recession, there is no doubt that the budget deficit is appropriate. But by 2021, you have drawn more than half the nominal deficit reduction in this budget. Today, the 2021 budget should be in place, at least there should be a set of lines. The budget strategy has not yet been submitted to the Riigikogu; only every week are the drafts for reducing indirect taxes, lowering excise duties, which have the opposite effect. What were your arguments when you drew this column like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U43	Thank you for your question. You are very attentive, indeed there is a reference to the next year as well. However, when drawing such drawings, we can only rely on the laws already adopted in the Riigikogu. On the one hand, we know that many one-off expenditures have been adopted this year with an additional budget, which should not be carried over to the next year. On the other hand, certain social expenditures may automatically decrease if the economic situation improves next year. As the deficit is measured as a percentage of GDP, and we still hope that next year, after the collapse of the economy in 2020, there will still be a recovery, GDP growth and the improvement of the Estonian economy will contribute to the improvement of this ratio. But so far, we really have been based only on publicly known information. What will really be the discussions on the state budget for 2021, we will see and we will also be able to refine our own figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U44	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In describing the current situation, the post-corona epidemic situation, very colorful words are used. This morning, I heard, unfortunately, I don't remember who said this, that this is the biggest crisis of the last 80 years. I'm not gonna argue with that, maybe that's it. However, since Eesti Pank is one of the central banks of Europe, I am asking: what has been is something that we cannot change, but how long will it take for us to get out of all this? And what is this one thing, this key that can help us get out of it faster?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U46	I am not sure if I have one key, but I can say that the European Central Bank, for example, published its economic forecast last week. According to their estimates, this level of economy in terms of volume, following the deep fall this year, could return to pre-crisis levels by 2022. I think this is also the moment in Estonia when, at least as measured by the volume of the economy, we could be back at the pre-crisis level. The question is, does this mean that we are in as good a situation as before in all respects. Probably not. Let us look at the financial indicators, at the fact that the country's debt burden is higher, at the financial point where governments are in a more fragile position than they were before the crisis. For the central banks, too, it is certainly a question here, as has been pointed out previously, that the central banks have indeed taken exceptional measures to support the economy, to channel additional money into the economy and to ensure favourable financing conditions. It will probably take longer than a year or two to reverse these steps. In that sense, yes, this perspective may be even longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U47	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U48	Thank you. Thank you very much for a very concise and clear presentation. In this compact form, it was still quite a nightmare to see Estonia fall from the absolute peak of Europe in 2016 to the second from the back. This is not the Estonia we are used to. This is certainly not the Estonia we should strive for in the future. But it's the future I'd like to ask you about. At least according to current knowledge, the government has taken the view that we are based on the same cost level as before the corona crisis, i.e. no cost cuts. In other words, we will go on with a cost base of about 11.5 billion, knowing that revenue will fall away this year as well as next year. My question is this: do you think it would be more reasonable for us to take back a little in terms of costs now and then start recovering, or is it better if we maintain cost levels at all costs and stagnate for a very long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U49	First of all, thank you for your question. Just as I said in the presentation, basically in Eesti Pank we agree that in order to support economic recovery, the state should be prepared to make additional expenditure today. In this sense, we are not now advocating abrupt cuts by the state. The question is, of course, whether this means that all expenditure and all operating costs must remain the same in a situation where the private sector makes clear cuts. I think this is a clear point of discussion on how the structure of expenditure should look, how much should be directed towards investments that are clearly geared towards economic recovery and how much to current expenditure. I think that this deserves an additional debate after the initial crisis has come out of the bottom. This is a good thing to do when we talk about the state budget for 2021 at the latest.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U50	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, In your report, you approved the inclusion of the loan money. But I'm more interested in what you think of it when, in today's situation, the national reserves go up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U52	Thank you for your question. In a situation where public expenditure exceeds revenue, this is, in principle, the choice of how to finance this higher spending. In part, this can be done on the basis of previously collected reserves. Since this is not enough, additional money needs to be borrowed. Basically, the use of the reserves collected in a crisis situation, I think, is correct. As I was referring to, we could have just had a lot more reserves when we entered the crisis. The fact that they are not enough now is understandable, which is why it really makes sense for the country to borrow further. What is the reasonable constant level of reserves and buffers, the minimum level at least in order to ensure the state's sound treasury on a regular basis, the Ministry of Finance at the Treasury will nevertheless make sure that we do not fall below the critical limit. We didn't have too big buffers before the crisis. In this sense, I understand, on the one hand, the use of reserves and additional lending, but, on the other hand, really would stress the need to collect buffers at a good time. The current episode shows that we could have had a lot more buffers that we could have used when we entered the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U53	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U54	Thank you, President of the sitting. Honourable waitress! I am a major advocate of a balanced budget and generally a conservative fiscal policy. However, when our then party chairman, Mart Laar, proposed a balanced budget requirement in the Constitution, I opposed it. A balanced budget is a very important tool for sustainable development, but not for the objective itself. If there is a normal economic situation, we need to think about residues and stocks, but in a crisis, for example, when there is a medical crisis, we need to think above all about saving people's lives, even if it requires certain restrictions on freedom. Do you not think that, in times of economic crisis, all economic and financial efforts should focus on ensuring that the economy does not die out, even by abandoning a balanced budget and other important principles?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U55	Thank you for your question. I basically agree with you. In Eesti Pank, we have also traditionally talked about the advantages of a balanced state budget and the need for it. But we have not been in the crisis that we find ourselves today. Indeed, the balance of the state budget should not be an end in itself. As I pointed out in my presentation, we now see in Eesti Pank that additional support for the economy through the state budget is justified. The budget deficit this year is certainly understandable. Should today's efforts, in particular, be aimed at keeping the economy as functioning as well as possible, preventing a wave of bankruptcy, preserving jobs, as far as possible? I agree with that, too. I think that the first package of aid measures was largely aimed at this. Perhaps it will be more complicated when we are coming out of the acute phase of the crisis and there is a need to make slightly better targeted and more precise choices on how to support the economy as well as possible. Perhaps there should also be support for changes in the structure of the economy and not for the sharing of subsidies from the state in the same way to all. This is certainly not possible in the long term, as has been done so far during the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U56	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U57	Thank you for a very good presentation. But you were a little too friendly with the government to present this number, how much better our situation would have been. The cumulative structural deficit is certainly not 750 million, but according to estimates by the Estonian Ministry of Finance, Statistics Estonia, it amounts to almost 4% of GDP in three years. The situation in 2016 was also exacerbated by the very same government, the same policy as I mentioned. We should add a minus this year. But my question is: what is your appeal to this European recovery package? I come with some of the skepticism that Aivar Sõerd expressed here. But if Estonia is going to fight against the European view now, what do you think would be the consequences if Estonia were to try to stay outside, try to prevent it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U58	Thank you for your question. First of all, the structural deficit figures. There may indeed be different estimates in nuances. Indeed, the structural deficit is not as accurately measurable as nominal, cost-benefits and their difference, and I did not take into account the expected deficit for 2020. However, as far as the European Commission's proposal for a so-called "re-launch facility" is concerned, the starting point I understand is that the crisis affected all the Member States of the European Union. True, in different ways and with different depths of impact, the ability of countries to cope with the impact of the crisis is also different. At the same time, the European Commission is, of course, guided by the common European objectives and by the European Union as a whole to recover as well as possible. If we think more narrowly, also in Estonia's view, I think it is also in our interest that our trading partners get back to a better path as soon as possible. Both Estonian exports and companies would benefit from this and people would get jobs in them. That is why I think that, in principle, this proposal is also in Estonia's interest. The most problematic part concerns the funding of the programme, which would mean the issue of bonds and the borrowing of money on a much larger scale through the European Commission, but in fact, the joint guarantee of European countries. On the other hand, however, this is essentially a temporary increase in the volume of the European Union budget. We know that it is temporary, that the same mechanisms are used, that it is largely the same budgetary framework that has already been used and developed in the European Union, from which we can also think that this is not so much a difference as compared to the normal functioning of the European Union. But this certainly is a point of discussion, is it exactly what we need and how the costs and, for example, the relationship between loans and subsidies should be included in the package and which investments should be most supported? The Riigikogu will certainly be able to deal with it even further.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U59	Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, thank you for your presentation and your answer to the questions. But regrettably, the time for questions is over, although the members of the Riigikogu would still have questions. But thank you! Let's move on to the agenda. The next rapporteur is Raul Eamets, Chairman of the Board. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will now present the Budgetary Council's view on the issues raised. A number of issues, which I am also talking about, have already been briefly touched on here. If you look at this historical picture for a moment, look back for a second, in spring 2014 the Estonian State Budget Act introduced the rule of structural budget balance and created the Fiscal Council. This followed the decisions taken by the European Commission in 2013. The Board was given a very clear mandate: to assess compliance with domestic budgetary rules and economic forecasts. This mandate has also been the basis for our action. The next significant change in historical terms was in the spring of 2017, when the Estonian budget rules were amended, allowing a structural deficit of 0.5% instead of the current 0 balance, provided that the surplus had been collected in advance, as well as Estonia's medium-term objective, the objective of structural balance was reduced from 0% to 0.5%. This decision was made in the previous years, i.e. the period from 2014 to 2016, when a solid surplus had arisen. In autumn 2017, a small structural deficit in the state budget for 2018 was planned, as the existing rules allowed it. As we all remember, the deficit in 2018 turned out to be significantly higher than was promised, the correction mechanism was activated and the government announced its plans to change the budget rules again. In spring 2020, when we look back to 2019, this deficit proved to be higher than promised. In parallel, because of the corona crisis, the discharge clause was triggered, which in other words means that the validity of these rules was essentially suspended for a period of time. Let us look at the same cumulative balance that has already been mentioned here. Our calculations here also show 700 million. If you look at this last box (I have it orange, I don't know what color you had), somewhere on 700 million, it's a minus. This means that, between 2016 and 2019, the government's fiscal position was moderate in nominal deficit, which was covered by reserves, and this cumulative structural position became negative or deteriorated only one year after this principle was included in the budget rules. According to the rules, a cumulative deficit is not allowed. What are the problems here, or where have such omissions and mispredicts come from? As you know, when assessing the structural balance, we are looking at two other components, in addition to the nominal balance: the so-called cyclical component that has already been mentioned here, whether the economy produces more than its long-term balance or below whether this gap is positive or negative, plus one-off costs. Basically, taking into account such components, and precisely the so-called cyclical component, means that if the economy goes better than expected, or economic growth is faster than we have predicted, then it will worsen the structural balance. From 2017 or 2018 onwards, we will see in particular how the forecast for the state budget broke up with this initial picture and how much further ex post adjustments were made. All of this calculation is complicated by the problem that Statistics Estonia regularly adjusts gross domestic product and all such adjustments mean that we also have to recalculate balances and other things afterwards. To put it simply, it is very difficult to measure the effects of the same cycle at a time, we always find that out afterwards, unfortunately. There are other instruments, of course, how we assess the current state of the economy. For example, the Board has produced an economic weather map that looks at different indicators. These colors here mean that if you have a blue color, it's different from the long-term mean on the minus side, and if you have an orange or reddish tone, it shows that we've exceeded the long-term indicator. If we look at this figure, we can see that well-bright economic growth remained in 2007-2008. We will see an increase in 2017 and almost as much as in 2019. Maybe we had a "high-conjuncture" when we talk about the wider economy. The next figure shows that all the structural budget targets that we have set have not been achieved in recent years, and that is in both respects, whether we look at the initial actual [position] that emerged immediately this year, or the expost adjustments, in both cases we see that the targets differ very much from the actual situation. As far as 2018 and 2019 are concerned, the structural deficit in 2018 was larger than planned and promised, initially estimated at 1.4% of GDP, estimated at 1.7% of GDP, calculated ex post. If a country deviates from the medium-term objectives, an adjustment mechanism must be put in place, in accordance with EU rules, to correct this structural position by at least 0.5 percentage points each year until the structural balance has been re-established. The government decided to improve the budgetary position by 0.5 percentage points in 2019, with a target of 1.2% of GDP. The Board's recommendation was to plan a stronger improvement in the fiscal position, as such a large deficit was not justified in the current economic circumstances. We were, I recall, in high economics, or economic growth was very good. A larger deficit than promised in 2018 gave the government the opportunity to plan (without breaching the rule) a structural deficit in 2019. As a result, we now look back to 2019 to see that the structural deficit reached 1.9% of GDP. This means that, in fact, this target, which was set for 2019, could not be met. So, in our view, neither 2018 nor 2019 have met the targets set. I did not start to review, but I think we have been saying for at least the last four years that in good times we need to create a small reserve rather than adopt a budget with a deficit, because no growth in the economy will last forever. That's what anyone who's been exposed to the economy a little bit should know. As I have already mentioned, the structural position develops in conjunction with the assessment of the economic cycle, plus one-off revenue-costs. If we look at what has most impacted on the non-achievement of the target, where the top blue box shows the impact of the cyclical component, which was dominant in 2019, i.e. the increase in 2019 was significantly better than we originally expected, and this light brown or orange box shows the impact of the nominal fiscal position. In essence, it means the ratio of revenue to expenditure, i.e. more was spent than there was revenue. So in 2018 we see nominal budget problems here, in 2019 we see cyclical component problems. If you go inside this thing and look at what is happening with revenue and expenditure, the biggest forecast errors in 2017 to 2018 were expressed in tax revenues, as many tax changes were made. Major changes to the tax system in one year or several years in a row will certainly result in increasing uncertainty and risk of error. In particular, in 2018, we saw excise duties and income tax on legal persons in the lower decks, while income tax and social tax on natural persons were overcharged, as growth and wage growth were relatively rapid. To sum up, although the tax projections were slightly misplaced, the errors offset each other. Perhaps, if you look at this line of points, you can see that the tax receipts were more or less balanced or even slightly positive in 2019, but, by looking inside, we see some pretty big forecast errors. Of course, the rapid increase in government revenue was accompanied by a faster increase in expenditure in 2017 to 2019. Here we see the percentage increase in costs compared to last year. Obviously, there is this place where there was probably a bit of momentum, and the result was that the structural balance figures were not achieved, especially in 2018. On the revenue side, there are larger forecast errors in non-tax revenues, in particular in the use of external grants. If you put it in the context of the European Union, today's knowledge shows that Estonia is in the middle of the European Union with its economic downturn indicators. These are the Commission's latest forecasts. I think these numbers will definitely change in a year. It is also worth waiting for the summer forecast of the Ministry of Finance, then there should be a much clearer picture of what is actually going to happen in our economy. Today it is still very early to say what the recession will really be. The Commission estimates that the budget deficit is above 8%. In Estonia, we have evaluated it for 10%, also on the basis of today's knowledge. On a proposal from the European Commission, the exemption clause for the European Union's budgetary rules was implemented for the first time this spring and gave countries the possibility to derogate temporarily from public finances requirements. This automatically implemented the exemption clause in the Estonian budget rules, which allows the correction of previous errors to be postponed. Thus, although the structural balance of the government sector did not improve last year, there is no obligation to improve this position this year either. At the moment, we do not know how long the exemption clause will be in force, but also during the duration of the exemption clause, we must ensure that the long-term sustainability of public finances is not undermined. As I said, according to the spring forecast by the Ministry of Finance, our nominal deficit this year amounts to 10% of GDP and the structural deficit to 5% of GDP. Discussions on the need for a more thorough review of budgetary rules and possible changes have already started before the corona crisis and are most likely to continue after the crisis has ended. Finally. Respect for the rules and the collection of reserves in good times of the economy are prerequisites for supporting the economy even in difficult times. Perhaps when we are talking about countercyclical measures in times of crisis, we should actually also talk about countercyclical measures in times of economic boom or high economic juncture. We have also said this in our opinion that we, the Board of Budgets, consider it important that the government present a longer-term view of the Estonian economy and public finances at the latest in the autumn, or at least a few scenarios with planned steps to restore fiscal balance. At a time when the state of the economic cycle and the structural position are difficult to assess, as in the current situation, the budget targets could be set on the basis of a nominal fiscal position indicator that is unambiguously understandable and easier to interpret. In 2021, the deficit could not exceed 3% of GDP, which is one of the known criteria of the European Union. In order to maintain the credibility of fiscal policy, we need a working domestic budget rule. If we look back at this period, we will see that we have changed the rules according to how it has been more useful to make political decisions. Maybe 2017 changed the budget rule, but it has not worked as hoped, because the violations started in the first year, so we went to a cumulative disadvantage. The correction of errors does not take account of economic status, the correction step is constantly re-evaluated, etc. Perhaps there would be a need for some other workable indicator, it would then be an increase in costs compared to GDP growth, etc. There are different criteria for how fiscal policy can still be monitored and monitored in the European Union. Today, in any case, it can be said that the rules that we have established ourselves have not worked. At official level, work should be continued on the recommendations of the National Audit Office's report in order to better monitor and forecast government revenue and expenditure. The Board of Budgets has proposed to the government that the National Audit Office audit the entire process of public finances, which was carried out, and a number of interesting and necessary recommendations have come from there. I think they should also be implemented. The Board has met with the people of the Ministry of Finance to discuss how to improve cooperation in the future. That's all I was going to tell you right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U61	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U62	Thank you very much for this very comprehensive presentation. In addition to the large budget deficit, the real scale of the excise policy bypasses the 9 in particular comes out of the slide. While 2018 was still less than the cost of protection caused by excise duties alone, it is difficult to ignore. But my question concerns what you almost answered about in your last sentence. In truth, it must be said that the Fiscal Council is not only wise afterwards, but you have given the same advice as you have just said in the past. For some reason, they have not been heard in the last few years. What can we do to ensure that the opinion of the Fiscal Council is already proactively very weighty and cannot be ignored by governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U63	Yes, it is true that we have talked about this more or less from the moment we were created. Discussions have been different. The press has also expressed the view that it may be necessary to extend the mandate of the Fiscal Council. All these things also require changes in the respective laws, and it is still ultimately up to politicians to decide whether and how much the powers of the Fiscal Council are to be extended. As the previous speaker said about [Eesti Pank], neither does the Board of Budgets make political assessments. It is up to us to monitor what is happening within the framework of the European Union's budgetary policy and to evaluate these matters, and it is still up to politicians to make concrete political choices. So if this issue is to be called into question repeatedly, if I have been to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for example, to present the Council's opinion, so that we think more, then this mandate must be extended. It's actually that simple. One of the topics that we have had in the debate with the people of the Ministry of Finance is that we have not yet made a black and white assessment that we approve or do not approve of, for example, the monetary forecast. I'm sure it's one of the places to think. However, these discussions are currently under way and what these amendments or amendments will be, it is too early to say at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U64	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We have one assumption today regarding the corona crisis that there will be no similar crisis in the near future, and it gives the impression that we are prepared to spend quite large sums of money. But theoretically, these crises may occur more quickly than in a 10-year cycle, let's recall even the SARS, which didn't spread so extensively, but remained in some ways limited and local. But please tell me whether, in this perspective, it would rather be reasonable for companies to distribute money in this way into grants or whether it would be reasonable to have the market regulated itself and to place all protection on the staff. I mean, one good measure that has been approved is that employers, employees and the state have agreed that we will collect unemployment insurance contributions and that we will implement it at some point. Today we also implemented it in an emergency because we paid wage subsidies. But in that case, can we have enough resources? The money that reaches companies may not be adequate from the point of view of the company, but rather prolongs agony.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U66	Thank you. I now respond as an economist, because I think I have just finished the idea that the political assessments of the Fiscal Council are not being made. But as an economist, I can say that there are different points of view here, and this is actually the point of contact between policies and the place of debate. Do we believe that, in difficult times, we need to pump more money into the economy, or are we going to follow the Keinsian approach that the European Union is actually doing today when we look at the printing of money, or are we going to be more of a school in Chicago and say that although the market itself is shaking everything that is not necessary, it is going on and everything is going on? That is exactly the case, it is a world-view dispute, and a certain compromise must be found between the different approaches. I do think, as the previous speakers have said, that as long as it is possible to keep people at work, we should do so, because we may not yet imagine this effect, that if the payment of wage subsidies at some point should end, what redundancies will become and how it will affect our consumption and the internal market, for example, in addition to externalities. So if it is possible to keep people at work, I would say, by any means, this should also be done, because unemployment is starting to affect the economy from very many angles.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U67	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U68	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr President of the Fiscal Council. I think you've been the most critical of the waitresses we've had to date with regard to the current government. But I am asking, or I am rather concerned, that the future of the state budget seems quite dark, even without taking into account the crisis, not so much in terms of numbers, but precisely in terms of ignorance, uncertainty and lack of discipline. Speaking of the Fiscal Council, the Council will make its own proposals and calculations. But can't the question be that the role of the Fiscal Council should be a little bigger in keeping to the budget rules? What do you think of this thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U69	Our mandate today, as I said, is that we can actually say for ourselves that we are approving these budget objectives or that we are not approving them. If we do not confirm, we need to react in writing and justify why our opinion is not being taken into account. These exchanges of views will also be monitored very closely at the level of the Commission. The same goes for the economic forecast: whether we confirm this economic forecast or not. So we have some mechanisms today. As I said, we are not giving our assessment or confirmation of the financial forecast, not yet today. We have so far acted within the scope of our mandate. I do not want to get technical, but the problem is also that when we talk about traditional spring budget strategy negotiations, this timeline is so tense that even if we wanted to give a more comprehensive opinion, we usually do not have time for this. All these things pile up in a very short period. We are not able to shape our opinion properly and, in fact, no one will be able to take this opinion very much into account. So we should seriously think about extending this whole period so that we can prepare our opinion more properly and somebody can also take our opinion into account. If all of this builds up in a three, four or, I don't know, one week, it's practically very complicated. There are also technical things that we have dealt with in these meetings with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, so how can we make it a little longer, so that everyone has just a little more time. There's a lot of technical stuff here that wants to be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U70	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U71	Thank you. I'm arguing with Jüri Jaanson right now. I think you are emphatically neutral, until you say that the rules do not work, not that they are not being respected. But I have been a little upset about your mandate, which you also talked about a little bit, that you cannot give long-term impact assessments on specific policies. For example, from the last time, these issues of excise or second pillar are very strong pressure on future budgets, a prescribed bill. Please tell me what these ideas are, in your view, which could be considered in terms of increasing the mandate of the Fiscal Council. I'm not really criticizing this mandate, I've been a phraser myself, we've knowingly had it made a minimalist one, but I guess I've had time to think about it. What could these ideas be about?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U72	I've already told you about one. It is as if the most concrete [ide] was that we either give our approval to the financial forecast or not. It's not in the law today. If we were to give political impact assessments, which, true, some fiscal councils are doing in Europe, this would require a review of the whole system. These are, in fact, research institutes, where there is a very different order of magnitude of people who develop forecasting models, are their 'foreseeing models' on the basis of which they form opinions. Of course, it would also mean a completely different budget. Anything can be done, but it requires not only changes in the law, but also perhaps a change in structure and budget. It is simply not realistic to do forecasting models with two or three analysts, as Eesti Pank or the Ministry of Finance are doing today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U73	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U74	Thank you, good manager. And thank you for your presentation. I really liked it when you said you had to keep people at work. It's true. However, we were introduced here yesterday to the draft, which talked about the increase in unemployment and unemployment benefits, but also about the part that comes from the European loan money. 60% of the budget and expenditure of one department in the Ministry of Social Affairs is based on European money. We know that the services of people with disabilities, people with reduced working capacity, are paid out of European money. How does all this affect our future? At one point these amounts must come to the state budget. An important trend has been that 2016 and 2017 began using European money to fulfil the country's tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U75	In fact, there are more of these problems. Now I'm talking like an economist again. Basically, one of the issues is our dependence on European Union money. For many years scientists have been pointing out that large areas, research and IT development, and many infrastructure investments have also been on top of European Union funding, and that if this funding is reduced, what will happen then. This issue has been raised at length by us, but we have not yet seen a very clear strategy. The second problem, which concerns the state budget as a whole and which has also been said quite a lot, is how much of today's state budget has been written by law, i.e. how much political space there is in the budget at all. So these are big issues, and these are topics that you can still only solve in this Chamber. We can stand by and point our finger at something that needs fixing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Professor, thank you very much for your interesting presentation. You show on your slides that one of the places where the deficit of the budget lies is the increase in expenditure, insufficient forecasting of expenditure and also control of utilisation. I have often encountered the fact that it is impossible to read the budget correctly: there are 12 pages of the budget itself, 443 pages of the explanatory memorandum for the first reading and 443 pages of the 12 pages of the numbers available to them, sometimes it comes together, sometimes it cannot. Do you think that this methodology of budget submission is also the cause of this error, that expenditure monitoring is so poor and that it causes us such deficits?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U77	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U78	I wouldn't be looking for causality here right now, which would probably require a little more analysis. But one of the incentives to propose that the National Audit Office could audit the entire budget process was precisely the problem that you have now pointed out. I have been talking in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and when the budget has come up, especially in the autumn, when things are getting clearer or the numbers are coming up, everyone together, both the Fiscal Council and the Members of Parliament who are in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has said that things are not transparent. It is also partly written in the proposals of the National Audit Office that this process must be more transparent and clearer. If that's the reason for the overspending, I owe you an answer. But the fact is that the budget statement should be clearer, more transparent and more understandable. This has been emphasised by the various parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U79	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U80	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your interesting presentation. We are talking about a 'budget strategy' and these things. But I ask you this: what would you say on the likely eve of this major economic crisis, if you would, for example, appear in the French Parliament to the members of the French Parliament? What would your message be about today's Europe and the east wing and the west wing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U81	Thank you for your question. That is a question to think about right away, because I am not very familiar with the French budget rules. But if I put myself in that position like I'm here right now, I'd tell the French how they should follow their budget rules. I don't think I'd say anything else. Just as I am not before you here today to talk about the solidarity and other issues of the European Union, this is the item on the agenda of the second sitting, I propose. I'd stick to my grids, maybe talk about the same thing I'm talking about here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U82	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U83	Thank you. Dear waitress, I come to this one aspect of spending, to grants. Grants should be budget-neutral, they come in and go out, right? They may generate additional costs by being co-financed. If the money comes less, the co-financing doesn't cost. Suddenly, you are opening up the background of how these subsidies are now suddenly so negatively affecting the budget through the mechanism.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U84	That's a good question. This was one of our concerns that we said to the National Audit Office that we do not really know how these subsidies move in the budget. That was the problem. It's a subject that needs to be rewritten. We didn't see where it was, where it was at the moment, and what it did exactly. That was the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U85	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U86	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable Professor! I am dealing with a topic that is specifically about saving. After all, we are used to stressing here that in good times we need to save more so that in bad times there is something to spend, while we know that by saving we are suppressing economic growth. There's a certain place to look for balance. How do you comment on that? Have we saved enough, should we have saved more? Or how were we supposed to behave in these good times?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U87	Thank you for your question. In my opinion, as I mentioned, we believe that there was hardly any savings at all. That was the problem that, when the economy grew very fast, we had a deficit budget. That was the problem for us. At least the budget could have been balanced and savings would have been even better. Actually, they didn't. How much savings, this is once again a matter of political choices, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U88	One more question. Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U89	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good professor! Here several reports mention the increase in the Estonian state's debt as a negative example. Apart from a change in fiscal policy, which may have been due to a change in government or a change in government, there was also an administrative reform. Local authorities received merger bonuses, plus the harmonisation of debts or loan rates of former municipalities through loans. What is the share of local governments in the Estonian state's debt now or the impact on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U90	I'm afraid I don't have exact numbers in front of me. Yeah, that's definitely in there. I know that part of the additional money that went for the administrative reform was taken into account precisely those one-off measures that are being taken off the structural balance. So, in fact, this extraordinary cost didn't count. But I really do owe this response as a percentage of how this public loan is divided exactly. I don't have those numbers with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U91	Thank you very much, dear waitress. The time for questions is over. Thank you again for your report. I would like to ask Toomas Luman, the chairman of the board of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who will also be able to make his presentation within 20 minutes and then answer questions within 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U92	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! To begin with, I do not know whether I should acknowledge you or feel sorry for you, but it seems that your work is really very exhausting, very difficult and almost intolerable to the human body, because most of your colleagues ended up in less than an hour after starting today's working day. But now for today's report. First of all, I would, of course, like to thank you for the invitation to take part in the debate on a matter of such importance as fiscal policy, and as an input, to pass on the views of economic operators, both on the principles that are relevant to fiscal policy and on the support measures implemented in today's circumstances and on the economic situation. As fiscal policy is the basis for the redistribution of the added value generated by the economy through the tax system, it is undoubtedly an important issue for entrepreneurs, on which the Riigikogu and the government must make the necessary decisions. As is the case for members of society in general, it is important that, when speaking to businesses about public finances and fiscal policies, despite crises, pandemics or other serious crises, changes are nevertheless foreseeable and not occurring overnight. Fiscal policy is the basis for fiscal policy and investment, and stability and predictability are essential in both cases. Rapid changes always lead to instability and very often to market failures. Even if a rapid response is due to and justified by an exceptional situation, the foregoing must be taken into account. It is important for businesses that fiscal policies ensure the competitiveness of the business environment, but it is even more important that the state system as a whole functions efficiently, responsibly and that the public services expected from the state are at an appropriate level and accessible to those in need. In the case of public services, it is undoubtedly important that their capacity does not exceed the opportunities arising from our tax burden and is affordable for our country and society. As the level of living and well-being grows, there is always a risk that people's expectations will grow beyond the state. The desire of politicians to welcome voters at the moment can lead to a desire to raise spending beyond the possibilities available, and this, in turn, will lead to ever-increasing economic policy choices in the future. Estonia's tax burden is already at its level, so that if it were to increase, we would most likely inevitably damage the competitiveness of the economy. At the moment, I believe that this is quite optimal in view of the opportunities and needs of our small country. Of course, fiscal policy must be sustainable and take into account that, after one election cycle, the next and the next will come, and that all today's expenditure will have to be paid up tomorrow, whether the economy is going better or worse in the future. Today, strangely enough, many, including very many entrepreneurs, have come up with a broad expectation that the state should help and support everywhere instead of getting on its own. There are certainly situations where, given the exceptional nature of the situation and the unforeseen nature of the situation, it makes sense to avoid more damage, but it is not reasonable or, unfortunately, sustainable to deepen such an approach. This is a place where politicians also have an important role to play in explaining to voters what the country's real opportunities are. Public means cannot make everyone and indiscriminately happy. We need to ensure, above all, the functioning of the medical and educational system and the safety of people. Today's total revenue is, as we know, about 40% of gross domestic product, and that is what we have to do. There's nowhere else to take it from, except maybe for the short-term loan leverage. As mentioned, we must also take account of the commitments already made. The composition and coalition of the Riigikogu, both today and every subsequent one, regardless of their political views, must take account of the fact that all previous legally assumed obligations are to be fulfilled. Often, someone has a legitimate expectation of these obligations, which is why their cancellation can be done in a rhetorical way rather than in real life. It must therefore be noted that, over the years, only 20% of the budget volume has actually remained available to make choices according to political priorities. Unfortunately, if the resources available from the European Union budget for investment so far are reduced, the room for manoeuvre will become even more limited. So, once again, by comparing expectations and opportunities: money to satisfy all wishes and to support everyone, we will never and never, even if we borrow money. Undoubtedly, the current economic crisis is extremely extraordinary. Extremely, how to say, it also had a surprising and startling beginning for the whole association of economic people. The view is undoubtedly spread that if the state prohibits and shuts down, then the state will compensate. The problem is that the country did not have many other options. And even though he didn't have those other options, there is now a expectation that he will come and save. But, unfortunately, the next reality is that the country simply does not have the ability to save everyone and to come to the water. While the optical effects may give rise to illusions that ten times the size of the paper will cover the entire ten times the size of the paper if it is moved quickly enough, unfortunately, it will remain an illusion. Budgetary policies and political promises should not create unreasonable illusions. Real needs, as well as opportunities, should be addressed and, of course, assumptions should be sought and created to broaden opportunities. How to grow the economy and thus tax revenues so that it is sustainable and helps the next and the next Riigikogu to implement new political ideals? This is what we believe should be the purpose of today's debate on budgetary policy in the Riigikogu. How can more education and science be supported? How can we ensure the sustainability of an increasingly costly healthcare system without increasing the tax burden? And how can we continue to be prepared for such unexpected events as we have experienced in this crisis? The European Union's resources are expected to decrease in the next financial period, and hopefully this will lead us to think through more decisions on how to use these funds. On the other hand, it is inevitable that a large part of the investments that have so far been made with this money, many of which have been very necessary, will require new costs and new investments. New investments also need money. This must, however, come from the state budget that is already made up of tax revenue. Estonia's path cannot be to build up its own wealth by means of loans, as we have seen in some countries of southern Europe, where some problems arising from spending more than opportunities have not yet ended when new ones are created or amplified. Taking out a loan in itself is not bad if it does sensible things and helps to ensure that those who have to pay back the loan have other pleasures than repaying it. Therefore, I certainly do not want to criticise today's growth in sovereign debt, which is in many ways inevitable in order to ensure, in essence, that the state's obligations are fulfilled and serviced. However, it is significant that the share of public debt in GDP has increased more than twice in such a short period of time, and at least with today's knowledge it should be avoided further. Let us be honest, today's global economic crisis, its cause and scale and depth could not be predicted by anyone three or four months ago. Have we suddenly become so wise and enlightened that we can anticipate such things in the future? I don't think so. Therefore, we must continue to maintain the country's lending capacity in the event of any future crisis. If we enthusiastically continue to borrow now, then it is likely that next time we will no longer have this capacity, or it will be very small. The subject, which is beginning to approach the current crisis more closely and the real issues related to the economic support package, is described in the next slide. By going a little more to the micro level, the Chamber of Commerce estimates that the recession is longer and deeper than currently projected. Then more emphasis must be put on state support measures that clearly have a wider impact on the whole economy and which we can offer, as far as possible, to the largest number of businesses in trouble. As the Governor of Eesti Pank mentioned, tomorrow they will disclose their new forecasts and new positions. Today, on this wall, we saw the economic downturn in Estonia as a forecast of 7% this year. I believe that this will be expressed in the papers published tomorrow as a two-digit rather than one-digit percentage number. But myself, I think that our real economic downturn this year could exceed 14% of the record year of our previous crisis. The fact is that a very modest number of companies have implemented KredEx's guarantee to restructure their financial liabilities in financial institutions. It does not tell us that such a measure is not needed now and in the future. At the moment, it has simply been possible to use other measures. It has been relatively easy to reach agreement with credit institutions on payment holidays and other such measures, but unfortunately credit institutions are not able to offer them infinitely and at some point there are also problems with the value of collateral assets, which clearly highlights the need for the borrower to obtain additional guarantees or guarantees from somewhere. In our opinion, it is in the second half of this year and next year that the same guarantees and guarantees provided by the state through KredEx that will help companies to meet their obligations to the banks are becoming very important. Once again, this is not just about the cash flow issue; as the economic crisis deepens, it is definitely about the value of collateral assets. For the State, however, these measures are the least risky and allow the most difficult companies to be helped. If the State were to risk 100% of the creditor's risk and the taxpayer's money by offering direct loans, the risk would be 5 to 10 times lower, depending on the conditions. The same cash buffer could support several times more companies and their commitments. Listening to bank analysts, there are no problems with possible money supply in the financial markets. If the private market works, there is no point in creating a state bank. In the light of the above, the Chamber of Commerce considers that the additional capital currently provided to KredEx should also be converted into a target use and that part of the funds earmarked for the provision of current loans should definitely be channelled into guarantees to cover losses. Since today KredEx has made positive loan decisions of less than EUR 150 million, as far as we know, and 100 million of this is a loan from a large company, our proposal should focus at least 300 million of the current loan on providing guarantees and, as a result, the amount of guarantees could be increased to around EUR 3 billion. Today's corporate loan portfolio in Estonian credit institutions is less than 8 billion euros. Financial institutions consider that about 40% should be the amount of guarantees and guarantees required for this loan portfolio by the end of the year or by the beginning of the following year. That would be the solution. We also indicate that the maximum total liability of KredEx towards the bank and the lessor is limited and may not exceed 15% of the total amount of loans granted by the bank and the lessor. Such a restriction may be sufficient under normal circumstances, but there is clearly too little of it in a crisis situation. On this subject, both the Chamber of Commerce and the Banking Union have repeatedly addressed Parliament and the Government. Unfortunately, to date, these appeals have been essentially overlooked. In particular, such a limitation reduces banks' confidence that and to what extent the loan is still guaranteed by the State, if many companies are unable to meet their payment obligations for the bank in the short term and there is a risk that the maximum total liability of KredEx could quickly be fulfilled. The Chamber of Commerce is proposing once again that the total liability of guarantees be set at 40% for existing loans and that the limit on guarantees and liability be abolished for new loans. We believe that these changes would help a significantly larger number of companies, while maintaining a very responsible use of public funds, in a context of further economic slowdown. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Chamber of Commerce does not make economic forecasts itself, but, based on the feedback from its members, we are still trying to predict what the near future will be. The members of the Chamber of Commerce are nearly 3400 companies, the majority of which are small and medium-sized enterprises or even micro-enterprises, which are the largest in Estonia. However, the companies that are members of the Chamber account for about 40% of the state's tax revenue and thus make up an important part of our economy. A survey of these companies last week showed that future forecasts are very pessimistic. The decline in turnover is predicted by nearly three quarters of respondents, two thirds of respondents consider the reduction in investment to be real, and the reduction in the number of employees hits approximately 40% of the members. This survey was conducted last week when the unemployment fund measures were still in place. This means that 40% of members are more likely to see a decrease in the number of employees being downgraded. All of this together shows that the second half of this year and next year will certainly be difficult in business. In sectors such as construction or information technology, where contracts are longer, the major problems will mostly only occur next year. A similar situation exists in the manufacturing industry, which has been our export locomotive. I believe that politicians should also express more clearly the view that, unfortunately, the crisis is going to be profound and that the country cannot help all businesses, even with the best will. The country must probably think significantly more about, for example, the wider and better organisation of retraining for unemployed people and see what can be done at national level to prevent mass long-term unemployment. The results of the same survey also confirm what was previously mentioned: state support measures must be targeted primarily at where the problem is most acute. Not everyone can be helped. It is important for businesses that the conditions for support measures are equal, comprehensible and transparent. While any support is intervention and distortion of competition, it is accompanied by the expectation that maximum competition will be guaranteed and support will be given to those who have taken a proper view of their obligations vis-à-vis the State themselves in the past. In recent months, we have been approached by a large number of companies who have specifically stressed the correct enforcement of tax obligations as a prerequisite for any grant. KredEx was already mentioned in advance, but I would stress once again the need to review certain conditions there. In particular, we are talking about raising the limit on total liability and reducing fees. It is also important for companies that the volume of public investment is maintained and that the planned investments are not delayed or cancelled. This concerns both local government and national investments. It is important, at least, to maintain today's level and not to lower it. And, of course, labour issues that we could talk about for a long time. But perhaps the most important: we will always be dependent on external labour for certain skills, and external labour will have a role to play in both simpler and more complex jobs. We are in an open economic space, and it is important that we do this in such a way that we do not artificially hinder our own development. Of course, there are risks associated with the use of external labour. It is also a multifaceted and politically sensitive issue, but I repeat what has already been said: led, even better, smartly managed immigration is in any case better than unmanaged immigration. In one way or another, these people are coming to Estonia. It should be the responsibility of the legislator to ensure that this can happen with due thought and support to our economy in good times and worse. To conclude: conservative, balanced fiscal policies support entrepreneurship most when we are thinking about sustainability and we care about the future of ourselves and the future of our descendants. Overexpenses and loans must always be paid for by someone, and it is not worth creating an illusion that this will not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U93	Thank you very much, dear waitress. Let's start with the questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U94	Good manager! Good waitress! I wanted to ask. KredEx is, of course, the trouble child. This volume you've drawn here, these columns, the three thousand column instead of the thousand, what analysis is it based on when you change the distribution of the KredEx portfolio to that extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U95	Yes, it is indeed based on our communication with financial institutions, or banks. The banks are convinced that this does not concern individuals; it only concerns business loans, that they face minor or major problems with about half of their corporate loan portfolio. This side is between 3 and 4 billion, more like 4 billion. The 1 billion guarantees that KredEx can theoretically issue are not enough. There is no doubt that nothing will happen from an empty space, and these guarantees can also bring guarantees to KredEx. That is why it is proposed to reduce direct loans and increase the volume of guarantees, as this risk difference is 5 to 10 times. The realisation of the risk of guarantees as a so-called real financial risk is, according to financial specialists, 5 to 10 times lower than in the case of direct lending. It's based on the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U96	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Can I read from your report that, although there has been a very high level of opinion lately that we are able to increase the well-being of our country, both economically and culturally, by virtually closing the border, in the real world we are still not entirely getting along in terms of integration and international relations, labour and also management and trade? Can it also be said from your report and from your previous statements that the less the state intervenes, the less it creates such a distortion of competition between businesses, because identifying so-called fair and transparent criteria for the payment of subsidies is a rather difficult undertaking?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U98	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I'll start at the back. Yes, the Chamber of Commerce has such a view that the state in general could intervene as little as possible in economic matters. That is precisely the case, nor are absolutely objective and absolutely transparent criteria for aid and subsidies [not]. I don't think it's possible to construct an algorithm like this. In any case, some subjectivity remains in it and should be done as little as possible. Now the first part of the question: would closing national borders help our economic growth? Fortunately, I have not heard that anyone would very much like to close national borders once and for all. It would be sad to hear someone like that. Estonia is a very small country whose economic success and growth and the welfare of the people depend very much on exports. There's no reason to believe that if we close our borders, the others will open up to us. As far as the issue of external labour is concerned, it must be divided into two parts. One is the so-called structural shortage of labour. Undoubtedly, it has always, and in all countries, been at certain stages of development that, for certain specific skills and certain sectors that are growing faster, it is not possible simply to find and prepare their population at this pace and scale. The other side is undoubtedly the same again, which is very much to be seen in the case of rapidly developed countries, which have reached a certain level of well-being, that there are, however, certain jobs that their citizens no longer want to do very much. It is actually a social policy issue, it is a matter of status. It's not like we're gonna send someone into the field or out into the field. This has unfortunately or, unfortunately, been the case in other countries that have gone through a similar rapid development process and reached a certain level of well-being. We're not very unique in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U99	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U100	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm gonna start with the line on KredEx. It has been through various presentations and discussions. In fact, what is to be done is clear to everyone: the parameters need to be changed and a decision needs to be made. Why this decision takes so long will not be understood to me personally. Each crisis will come to an end, and the question is where the countries will emerge from this crisis. In your presentation, there was a very eloquent slide about what specifically concerned the future forecast and the expectations of your members. Two thirds of them see a decline in investment. However, investment is precisely what underpins future growth. What do you think are the factors that motivate an entrepreneur to invest in Estonia, and what are the factors that prevent an entrepreneur from investing in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U101	The motivation for Estonian entrepreneurs to invest is the same as the motivation for all other entrepreneurs around the world. Without technological development, without digitalisation, without further training or teaching of your people, you simply do not remain competitive, you simply are not effective enough in generating products or services and offering them on the market. What's stopping? Of course, the brakes are that every investment is usually also linked to foreign financing. This is the subject that ties in with these guarantees and guarantees. Why has KredEx not applied for these new loans, except for some companies? New loans can also be requested from the bank, nor have the banks stopped granting loans. The question is simply that businesses do not have the confidence and courage to take this additional financial risk if it is unclear how these old, already taken out-of-funds risks can be resolved. Here it is extremely important for KredEx and the government to cooperate with the banks in the sense that these volumes and conditions are still based on certain adjustments so that they become operational. They haven't clearly begun to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U102	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U103	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! You started by saying that the ambassadors are tired, that they are not in the hall. They're actually watching the hearing in their rooms and they heard your message. And you see, they've all returned to your delight. But my question is that, at the end of last year, we visited companies that subcontract to other companies. They already complained about a quarter reduction in orders, up to 30%. At the same time, the turnover of companies selling to retail customers in Pärnu, such as hotels and spas, increased. In fact, the economic crisis was already in the air for those companies that were outsourcing to others. Do you think that the health crisis has already exacerbated the emerging economic crisis or has it caused it? How was that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U104	I'm gonna start with this nicer part: it's really nice for everyone to be watching me. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I'm definitely the last person to deny the legend's omnipotence. But the economic side of this question... Yes, the economy is cyclical. Since for many years the arrow went up proudly, sooner or later this direction had to be horizontal and then downward. Was this the moment or wasn't it? I don't know, I'm not an economics professor, I'm not that big of a macroeconomicist. But yes, there were small signs of, at least, a slowdown in economic growth and, in some sectors, perhaps a small retreat before the corona crisis. But indisputably, even if the corona crisis itself was not the cause of this profound recession, it certainly was very powerfully amplifying. Personally, I'm not very optimistic. For some reason, all the fortune - tellers and important agencies that make predictions are somewhat modest. I was very surprised that, after a TV show where I said that by the end of the year at least 100,000 unemployed people were estimated to be unemployed, the manager of the unemployment fund had to withdraw the forecast from the drawer the next morning that there would be 114000. But before that, everything was really good. A friend of mine tells me he'd be half as smart as his mother-in-law gets in his way, he'd be Rockefeller by now. So, unfortunately, I don't know which way it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U105	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U106	Thank you. Well, it makes sense that if the government takes extensive measures to make it possible for the country's economy to survive the crisis, it will also consult with the direct parties, or entrepreneurs. I hear it's been done to some extent. But my question is precisely about those concrete proposals that were well presented in your slides and your presentation. These are not proposals of the kind to give a lot of money or something similar that would be difficult for the government to implement, these are proposals such as this, I would say, looking at them, which should not be an obstacle for the government to listen to. Does the government listen adequately to the advice of businesses and are these crisis measures in good cooperation enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U107	How do I put it? No, don't listen to us almost all governments always, less or more. After hearing the course (my 25-year experience says this), I have not noticed the tremendous enthusiasm for using this advice, even in earlier periods. I'm just saying to illustrate the view that one of my biggest problems with one of the prime ministers was when I asked the Scientific and Development Council to explain what the legal status of this entity was. I was told it was an advisory assembly. Then I had another question right after seeing if anyone would introduce me to these people and show me where they are, those who would like to take this advice. It's been a really big trouble. I've been avoiding such questions lately.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U108	Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U109	I don't know if I answered, but at least I tried.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U110	Ladies and gentlemen, they have come here to say that the time will soon be one. I have a proposal from the Special Committee on National Budget Control and the Committee on Legal Affairs to extend today's session. But if you will allow me, I will put it to the vote when we have heard from the esteemed waitress, there will be a few minutes until 1:00. So there's an extension proposal, but I'm not gonna let the waitress wait here until we're done with our procedure. So Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Toomas Luman! The euphoria of spending and borrowing has increased in the post-pandemic world. But this euphoria can't last long, even though today the money supply in the world seems to be pretty endless. In your conclusion, you said that conservative fiscal policies are the most supportive of entrepreneurship. What chance does Estonia have to return to such a fiscal policy, and does it have at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U112	There's nothing complicated here. There is a need to combine revenue and expenditure and to balance them. The question is whether the honourable Riigikogu and the government have the will to do so. Fortunately or unfortunately, I don't belong to either one, so I can't answer that question if there's a will. But we'll see. We'll find out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U113	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U114	Thank you for this amazingly sensible presentation. Not everyone thinks that. I have to admit, I said from the heart, even though there was a bit of a sting in the meantime. The prevailing attitude was what I'd like to ask you about. Does the Chamber of Commerce have a more precise view of the attitudes of businesses? They are still quite different in terms of the role of the state, and there have been many ears to the idea that the state will pay for everything to the end, and more so that the state should impose maximum limits in order to have more to pay for. But maybe it's some kind of extreme. What is your general sense of being reasonable entrepreneurs? Public opinion is always a little more extreme in the crisis than might be needed, but what about entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U115	I can't tell you how I'm supposed to answer that now. If I follow certain press, publications or online press, then often there are really colourful opinions and it is signed that this reviewer is an entrepreneur. But it has to be said that the same entrepreneur does not write such colourful thoughts to us in an official letter, for example, and it must be a little embarrassing for himself. Businesses that give us official opinions or, let's say, identifiable opinions are still very realistic people and they understand. But, of course, there's still a rule in life that if anyone offers, you have to take it. If offered, you have to take it, and then, when taken, you have to say, a little bit little, do you have any more. Now the same question is whether the other side has enough backbone to say no, sorry, but no more. This is the place. That is why I also said that, in fact, politicians should be much more forceful today to send this signal to society. When the crisis started, the Chamber of Commerce felt that all the measures were sensible, too, because we all thought at that point that this was a pure medical problem, perhaps going over in some time, and that does not change people's self-confidence, consumption habits, purchasing habits and whatever. Unfortunately, he changed everything. As a result, this crisis is likely to be much longer and deeper than any of us would have thought three or four months ago. Indisputably, measures such as this remuneration measure started relatively quickly, relatively large amounts came, people did not need to be concentrated, etc. Many companies that were in difficulty at that moment were relieved of everything. But now it is necessary to signal that these things cannot be kept alive for an infinitely long period of time. The same story, the restructuring of the economy, higher unemployment, probably some kind of bankruptcy, and so on, will undoubtedly arise. Unfortunately, it's a reality. The unpleasant facts will not become more pleasant if we try to ignore them. They're there in any case, and they're unpleasant in any case. Just because we're playing the ostrich game doesn't help us as a society. That is why things, I think, must be said by politicians in a much more direct way than perhaps has been done to date, in the expectation that perhaps this crisis will pass quickly and gently. No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U116	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U117	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Today, all speakers have stressed the importance of responsible fiscal policy. Today, when we are in an economic crisis, we also see that this really gives us the opportunity to resolve this crisis, so that we can borrow on favourable terms. If we have previously said that a loan could be taken for a significant investment, if any, then yesterday in the "Actual Camera," the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance said that the loan would be taken for running costs. Well, it can be understood in the same way that we are really in a crisis. How do you comment or argue that the state is borrowing for running costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U118	Thank you for your question. I might split it in two. As a general principle, the State should never and should never borrow to cover current costs. However, in this situation, when this crisis came to our attention with such intensity and so-called suddenness, it is understandable that, for example, in 2019 and perhaps also in 2020, a country will cover its running costs with a loan. However, I think that these reorganisations still need to be made at national level at such a rate that, in 2021, credit will certainly no longer be used to cover current expenditure. Yes, the country is a big machine, and it is not possible to reorganize in one day, but that objective should be clearly stated. I believe that a maximum of one and a half years could be spent by the state, not more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U119	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Board of the Chamber of Commerce. The time to ask questions will come, and I must now invite everyone to the Chamber to vote on the extension of the sitting. I am voting on the proposal of the Special Committee on State Budget Control and the Committee on Legal Affairs to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, with 2 against. The trial will be resumed. The time for questions is running out, let's open negotiations. It is possible for everyone to participate in the negotiations, but at the very beginning there is the opportunity for people to appear on behalf of the political groups. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U120	Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your theme development. There were a lot of good ideas, recommendations, attention to the management of things that should be done by the Riigikogu and also by the government. There are quite a lot of these issues, so I feel like I want to talk a lot about these things, and there are a lot of things I could talk about. I am talking about what went through all the speeches, i.e. the responsibility of budgetary policy. What is responsible fiscal policy? Here we can say simple parameters that it is balanced in terms of costs and benefits or that lending is balanced, rational, expenditure is substantive and necessary. However, in a more general sense, responsibility should mean that fiscal policy takes into account the future, takes into account the risks and uncertainties that the future entails, and that the costs incurred and the choices made in finding revenue are justified. We talked about this today, and previous speakers also said that Estonia's fiscal policy and budget has been out of hand in recent years. There are a number of reasons, but I will mention three above all. One of the reasons for this in some respects is the unexpected, unexpected, also in the sense that economic growth has been better than expected. But there has been a great deal of wishful thinking and lack of cost monitoring. This last one is something that no intelligent person should do, even with his home budget, should be watching what you do and whether you have more or less a balance between income and expenses. What, though, would a government in which the Minister for Finance, who represents the government's monetary policy, can draw from the following monetary policy views that taxes should be brought down and that as many exceptions as possible should be introduced? At the same time, to whom are these exceptions intended? Probably mostly to their own. We push up costs, we spend more and more, we share more and more. But as we heard from the last performer, the restrictions are actually ahead, and somewhere there is a sense of reason. Next, to borrow unbridledly, to borrow unbridledly to cover the costs of the loan. A loan can be taken, borrowing itself is not bad, but, as has been said here, there must be a reason for it. In the normal situation, it is investment and looking to the future. In the short term, in special situations, there may also be a need to cover current expenditure, but it cannot be a principle and simply a lure that we take as much as we can, and then we will see what we do with this money. The position of this Minister of Finance is also that there are southern countries in the European Union whose fiscal policy is irresponsible, who get along their heads and feet for it, and we should not take an understanding of them in any situation or should not try to solve the problems there. Yes, there are countries in the European Union whose fiscal policies are irresponsible and have created a European... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U121	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U122	You can't argue about that at all. However, the contradiction between the positions of our Minister of Finance and, probably, of the government's monetary policy is that, at first, these countries were not in that position. They reached this point because they implemented such an irresponsible policy, which introduced exceptions, was taxed for populist purposes, increased expenditure, and were granted an unbridled loan to cover costs far from rational. So how do the two come together? I'm not. It is the same situation that the government is trying to implement a fiscal policy that actually takes Estonia to where, I think, the people of Estonia do not want to reach: a country facing budgetary difficulties. This will ultimately also affect economic development. We tend to cite Italy as an example; we tend to give Greece as an example. What should be the actual responsible fiscal policy in Estonia today? Indeed, low taxes support the economy, but we also need to understand socially what the level of agreement is, what we are spending, where we are doing it and how. This means that taxes and costs must be balanced. We can use European Union money and talk about it, but it cannot be a long and permanent source of coverage of our basic expenditure, as has happened during this and the previous government. A large part of the social sector, significant, too much money comes from the European Union. Borrowing is not prohibited, but must be done in a meaningful and targeted way. Investing in the future is one of the reasons for borrowing. This means that the costs incurred by the loan must be such as to make it possible to save costs in the future or to increase revenue. We look at the state of the Estonian economy, look to the future: it is about research, development, innovation, infrastructure, it is certainly also about climate and environment. These are the things that should be addressed. I hope that if there is no initiative after today's debate this week and next week, at the latest in autumn, Riigikogu members and Riigikogu committees will take the initiative to force the government to make responsible policies if the government does not do so itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U123	Kersti Sarapuu, please! I understand that on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U124	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, of course, we are also very grateful for the three presentations that came from outside the house. They were very concise, and we found both positive and we heard complaints about today's monetary policy. However, a year ago, the government established the country's financial plans for the next four years. At the time, Estonia's economic growth was faster than its forecasts and we were able to look ahead optimisticly in the upturn phase. Today's coalition set four major goals: the growth of the Estonian economy, population, security and human well-being. These principles also apply now that the economic situation has changed dramatically. Because of the spread of the global corona virus, the growth phase has been replaced by instability. The European Commission is forecasting an economic downturn of 6.9% for Estonia this year, but I believe that this figure could increase significantly. Fortunately, today's government approached the crisis radically differently than one party ten years ago. Instead of cutting and self-flowing, the government has sought to maintain jobs and the normal functioning of businesses as much as possible through support measures. To this end, an additional budget had to be made and a loan had to be made. In previous years, the government led by Jüri Ratas has taken a conservative and responsible approach to drawing up the state budget, and this gives us the opportunity to borrow from international markets on favourable terms. The recent bond issue also showed that Estonian public finances are trusted. If we add here the plan to relaunch the European Union's economy and the accompanying injection of money, this will give Estonia the opportunity to raise our prosperity to a new level. This is the right time to implement projects and initiatives that have been postponed in the past, with the support of external funding. In particular, money should be directed towards areas where we can benefit in the future, whether it is building four-line roads, moving the fast internet to rural areas, increasing research funding, reconstruction of apartment buildings or contributing to renewable energy sources. In the current situation, we should not be afraid to borrow; Estonia's debt burden continues to be the lowest in the European Union and we are an example of our fiscal policy throughout the world. In conclusion, I would like to stress that, despite changing the global economic situation, Estonia's fiscal policy has maintained credibility and support for the economy will allow the state to exit the crisis without significantly increasing its debt liabilities. Increasing economic flexibility, supporting the business environment and improving the functioning of the labour market have become key issues to ensure the sustainability and further development of the economy. I can assure you that the Government of the Republic of Estonia is acting responsibly in the budgetary procedure and the Estonian budget is in safe hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U125	Peter Ernits, please, on behalf of the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U126	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This is the great day of a good colleague Jürgen, a wedding and a funeral at the same time. As a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I am quite familiar with the preparations and I understand why we are talking about this, and we are talking about it right. Jürgen here said that 2017 began to decline, loose conduct. Yes, indeed, then the 17-year period of governance led by the Reform Party ended. Jürgen's fear is, I think, as sincere as the unfortunate man who recently shot several people and wounded children in the head of a police officer near Lihula. Everyone has their fears, me too, and my child is always expensive. In spring 2014, the State Budget Act introduced a requirement for structural balance. The Minister of Finance was a good Jürgen Ligi at the time, a child of Jürgen. But today Professor Eamets said, if you remember that after 2017, when, according to a good colleague Jürgen, the decline began, the period of the high economic economy in Estonia, the fiscal council's weather map, came to see. And what did Professor Eamets, Chairman of the Board, say? A working domestic budget rule is needed. We have also discussed in the Special Committee on State Budget Control in the light of the current crisis that these things no longer work, the things we have talked about here today. And it concerns not only Estonia, but the whole of Europe. To quote Professor Eamets again, what he said in one of the many meetings of the Commission, it is not exactly known what works. We have come into or are in an unprecedented situation in Europe with this economic crisis and which instruments or tools are working, we do not know. It's a whole new one. But, yes, in fact, we are stuck in these deep crests, which, during 17 years of governance of good friends, the Reform Party, have been so-called plowed into the soil of Estonian finances. Indeed, the OECD's repeated recommendations to take credit more courageously have so far sounded to deaf ears. Yes, if you believe what Frau Merkel has said, we are, and the European Union is on the verge of one of the most serious crises, or it has already arrived. At the same time, Frau Merkel and his French colleague have proposed a huge 'cash injection' of 750 billion dollars, most of which are non-refundable loans, non-refundable aid and mostly intended to preserve the living standard of the so-called large countries of southern Europe. But I recall again: Germany's loan burden is about 60%, France 100%. If we want to catch up with Finland (we want it because our Kalevi sons are moving there again and not because of a great deal of love for Finland, but because Finland's standard of living and life are much better and more prosperous), but because Finland's loan burden is already 60%, then in order to reach the level of northern neighbours, we could take not 1 billion or 3 billion, but 10 billion loans. Then we'd be about the same level. Actually, you could take even more, 'cause everything's moving away. Indeed, I repeat again that these are the deep crests of the Reform Party, from which we are now coming out quietly. The budget does not need to be balanced and there really is a need for new methods when Professor Eamets repeats the situation with which to measure it. But more importantly, the paradigm has changed and is changing, is how we manage this money. As a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I hear...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U127	Is...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U128	Yeah, a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U129	Please! I'll give you a few minutes, maybe three.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U130	Thank you. Every week, every week of God, sometimes twice a week, I hear how that money is actually used. Our main partner is the National Audit Office and once again sit on the other side of the table with one ministry, then another, third, fourth, then the first and second high officials, ministers, etc. There's millions of dollars flying everywhere, and no one's responsible. I am very grateful for this opportunity to see it every week. Alongside this, dear friends, we are talking about some dogmatic approaches, that the loan is about the devil and what are the instruments, even the structural balance of the budget and all these things. Is there anyone responsible next to it? In various areas, be it education, rural, environmental, economic, is unfortunately the case that usually ministers, high officials come, report, the officials of the National Audit Office also report what they have discovered, and the result is that no one is responsible, no one. This, colleagues, is much more important than these dogmatic and mental debates, which are also important. That's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U131	Aivar Kokk, I understand that on behalf of the group, and then Oudekki Loone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U132	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I saw Thomas in the White Hall and told him that the members of the Riigikogu were listening to what was happening in their offices, and I said that he would leave now that we, who are actually making decisions, are talking about the same 101. We are always talking about the issue of loans and we are talking about 2016 that somehow the budget has gone upside down and down. We should look at this in a completely different way. In fact, in the last 10 to 20 years, have we abandoned a very large number of important investments? If we had the infrastructure we wanted, we had the Internet available, we had fast and comfortable connections, whether rail or 2 + 2 roads, would the crisis have been like this if it had been? If someone keeps saying that borrowing is bad, is there any members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber whose family would not have taken out the loan? [[???Saalist kommenteeritakse: 'Mina olen.'???]] No, I'm sure you have children and grandchildren whose one option is to borrow. I don't have a loan personally, but my kids have all bought their homes and they're paying a loan for 20 years or 30 years. There's car leases, too. And then we think that the Estonian state is the pope of the pope, the only one not to borrow is sitting down with a loan percentage of less than 10% of GDP, if the European average is more than 80%. Now we've raised it. Yes, with this additional budget and this year, this percentage will double, but it will still be the lowest in Europe. In my opinion, the biggest mistake came out in making an additional budget. Do you know what this is? It is that we have not prepared our country to inject money at one point. We don't have projects, we don't have 2+2 road projects. There is only one project and it is not finished, it is a remodeling of the Riga circle in Tartu. If anyone sees this project, they'll be scared if they really need that big, maybe they could solve it a little easier. But it's the only thing prepared. We're gonna build big state houses and everything, but a lot of things are where projects aren't done. It will take a year or two to three before we can make this investment, but with the help of investments, it is precisely by means of public investment that it is possible to boost the economy while private investors do not take risks that they delay their investments. However, we know that the volume of private investment is, in normal circumstances, much higher than the volume of public investment. Today we need these investments. Decisions that have not been taken for years should be made. I am certainly in agreement with Mr Luman that the investments that are being made should be those that will not bring us fixed costs in the years to come. We cannot simply pay out this money as wages, but we must make our infrastructure such that it is possible to work in any region in Estonia. We learned in one week how it is possible to manage the country as teleworking, how it is possible to manage the municipality as teleworking, how it is possible to manage companies as teleworking. And believe it or not, even the newspaper was able to be published... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U133	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U134	... so that the editorial board didn't go to the same room once, which is why we read today that some journalists are saying that they should be found with more money to give out the paper. I think entrepreneurship is a risk. That's why only 5% of people do business physically. Most of us are labor, we are not at risk. Crisis's coming, crisis's going. The country is prepared for the crisis the more the better it is, once again I stress, the state's infrastructure. If we are talking about budgetary opacity, that is correct, but we must also look around this Chamber. Over the decades, the same hall has consistently voted on draft laws so that, finally, when the budget gets here, most of the lines are not there. The Committee on Monetary Affairs will certainly continue to work in the summer and autumn to ensure that the state budget coming from the government, next year's, is much better visible and readable so that we can understand what we are actually deciding and voting in this Chamber. Once again, I stress that there is no need to be afraid of borrowing. Says the proverb that there is no need to be afraid of high costs, there is a need to be afraid of low revenues. This is the message that would certainly sound in this Chamber that in the coming years we would make significant investments, whether the budget balance is going this way or that way. It should take a look at the time horizon in which these expenditures will generate revenue so that the state budget goes back to plus. All expenditure must always take account of the fact that at some point these expenditures must also be reimbursed. Although, if you look at today's budgetary policy in the European Union, I do have such fear and fear that at some point a certain amount of debts will be extinguished. The only problem is that we have very few of these debts, and Greece and Spain have much more to delete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U135	Kalvi on behalf of the Hard Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U136	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Since the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs would like to get their drafts over with today, I will be brief. The Social Democrats have always considered the property to be the most important thing, good friends, human property. Because human resources are one of our most important things, and if human resources need to be developed, you have to borrow or do anything, but human resources, human capital, is what drives our economy and keeps our country. As social democrats, we are pleased that many years ago, all of us here, together, received improvements to one of the most important human capital components, or support for our children. Today, very many children have come out of poverty. But there are still steps that need to be taken. These are the things for which the Social Democrats are willing to borrow, they are willing to allow budget deficits. But if we don't improve our human capital, in 25, 30, 50 years, we'll have bigger problems than we might have now. Another very important milestone for us is greening. What we are doing today for the environment, and how well we are preserving our environment, will certainly help us to save a great deal of money in the years to come. So let's not be afraid of borrowing. If this is to be done, we will take, and if it is to be done, we will also put the budget in deficit for a few years in order to do these things that are very important for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U137	Thank you very much. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U138	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we are finally beginning to emerge from this thinking, as the aim of the country's economic policy should be to balance the budget and not to the well-being of our people, and that when the budget is diverted from balance, we must apologise, justify, bow to one side and bow to the other side. Not to mention that phrases such as 'living over power' by making public budgets or 'unresponsible countries' by sticking tags to other European countries which are very often not true could also remain in the past. Even if we look at the budgetary balance from the inside, for example, Italy's primary budget surplus for the last 30 years has been one of the largest in the world, let alone Europe. But back to the fiscal policy and the assumptions that still sounded in many speeches today and which were then demolished in other speeches. The question of debt, the question of balance. Looking at statistics, the richer countries are, the higher their overall debt burden, both public and private. If the state increases its debt, it means that private sector wealth is actually increasing, because this debt is not just going anywhere, it is going to be invested, something is being ordered for it. This means that the state gives more to its citizens than it asks in return. At the same time, the more we tax, the more we cut off a certain amount of money from the market, the more we actually reduce the wealth of the private sector, our citizens. Therefore, if we have a policy of having more public credit, public debt, less taxes, and naturally keeping external debt under control, it means exporting wealth, increasing the wealth of our citizens. If we try to make such a policy that the state will never lend, then this will only result in an increase in private debt. This means that our citizens owe more. This means that if we set the budget balance as our objective, it is not only the question that we consider some kind of accounting more important than the welfare and economic growth of our people, it will also bring about a situation where the country expects its citizens to maintain the country in some way, not the other way around, the state will not help its citizens to cope better, more effectively, richer. I would also like to draw attention to the recent decision of the European Central Bank to significantly increase the exceptional asset purchase programme. This is also a clear direction for countries to borrow more, countries to invest more, countries to offer wealth to their citizens and not to take it away from them. Of course, the euro itself is complicated and such crunchy, monetary money. It's like a bad shock absorber on a car, but it's what we have right now. Certainly countries could be considerably more flexible if they had their own sovereign currency, but this is also a debate that needs to be held in the future. But when you come back to the subject, I suggest you think about it for all of our colleagues before you start defending the budgetary balance, attacking borrowing, which is then really supported. Do we want a system in which the state functions so that citizens can live a good life, so that citizens can create new wealth with their work, or do we want a country in which the country somehow reduces the fruitage of the citizens' work, preventing it from being created where the citizens are for the state, not for the citizens of the country? Which one do we want?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U139	Would the speaker like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U140	No. Thank you. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U141	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U142	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We are today in a situation where neither we nor the other countries of the world have been in place for a long time. The economic crisis caused by the Corona epidemic, the pandemic, requires absolutely extraordinary solutions. It takes creativity, it takes flexibility. Yes, of course, the rules are good. It is reasonable to have a reserve in good times, to use it in difficult times, to balance the budget, to not use the loan money to cover current expenditure, etc. It's beautiful as a principle, but when it's a difficult time, these rules don't work, on the contrary, they slow down. The task of the state, and not only the state, but also the government and the Riigikogu, is to ensure the economic environment, its development, its progress, the well-being of our people. All means that are reasonable, wise, are permitted. Just as the use of loans, just as non-respect of budgetary balance and just as the running costs of the loan are not permanent, they are used to overcome the crisis as painlessly as possible. All the rhetoric that I have heard here today, and not only today, but actually during this whole crisis, when all these steps have been criticised and proposed by the opposition as experts, experts, how to overcome the crisis, how to do everything, is extremely disturbing. Let us recall the last crisis that began in 2008 and 2009, when the then Reformist Prime Minister announced that it is precisely in this crisis that we want to live in. Contrary to what common sense for us to use the money collected in good times, to alleviate this crisis and to come out of it, even more screws were closed, the reserve was increased, not used to revive the economy, the revenue base of the municipalities was reduced by 30%, tens of thousands of people were released, thousands of people were allowed to go bankrupt, resulting in about 100,000 people being outside Estonia, because they had no bread on the table or work here. That is why our economy is in the hands of foreign investors, foreign capital, our entire banking is practically in the hands of foreign capital, and Estonia's economy fell by more than 15% at the time, our GDP, compared to Western European countries, where the average decline was about 7% and who came out of this crisis much healthier, much stronger, who were precisely using loan money. But we were more papal than the Pope. No, we don't! Today, fortunately, the government and the coalition are acting differently... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U143	Extra time, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U144	... and precisely doing everything to restore our economy so that we come out of the crisis. The experts who then let Estonia into the ditch are not allowed to be heard. Because they, as we can see from these discussions here, do not really have any medicine. They are chasing down the same truth that they have proved to be a lie. We couldn't be any different. Our task is to make sure that Estonia emerges from this crisis. We need to borrow, because there are a lot of things that we can do today to boost the economy, even these big projects, 2+2 roads, without a loan, there is no way to do it. We would do them for another 100 years if we were just counting on our budget. But our job is to stand up for our country. Therefore, I call on all of you to think about how we can come out of this as well as possible together, what measures should be taken and where this money should be used. If we take out a loan ourselves, we have full freedom to decide where, how and why we use it. If we go along with the Euro Committee's 'Corona Crisis Package', then in fact, every monetary number has a label on it, where we can use it and where we have to use it, whether that is what we need or whether it is, on the contrary, on the other hand, our economy is actually being hampered. In fact, I believe that the state and government have behaved very correctly in this crisis, have used unconventional solutions in the sense of Estonia's tradition to solve the crisis, and it works. Of course, it is important to make sure that the money reaches the right destination so that the money is used in a targeted way so that there is a result. But, as I said, the second crisis that we have survived, the Estonian state as a country, and the Estonians would not survive as a nation. We must not allow this to happen under any circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U145	Thank you. I'm going down here now. But I'll be back.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U146	Speaking chair, Siim Kallas, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U147	Honorable Chairman! I was encouraged by Mr Ernits to speak. It has to be said that when you look up there at the hearing, you start thinking that the format of this dispute, as such, should somehow be developed so that we can argue with different views. And I would now like to argue with some of Peter Ernits' views. First of all, of course, I say that it is not very stylish to tie the shooting of Lihula to the budgetary balance; they have little to do with each other. But of course we'll take a loan! Nobody's against borrowing. Of course, a loan must be taken in the present situation, where a bacterium has done us so much harm. I could also say from history that, for example, the 1919 state budget was covered with 14% tax, the rest had to be borrowed from somewhere, borrowed from Americans and Finns. Only 14% of its revenue continued. So there have been such critical moments in Estonian history before. But why am I referring to Peter Ernits? In his own speech, he first destroyed the fact that no loan was taken, and in the second part he said that there was a disorder in the use of the loan. That's the problem. No one is actually against borrowing, the question is what to do with this loan. This is a problem for hundreds of years; it is neither present nor any other problem in previous years. I would like to draw attention once again to Estonia's history. There he sits there now, although there is no Jaak White, who has written several excellent books, including the book 'Applying Out'. The Republic of Estonia received 15 million gold roubles from Russia. It was free, totally free, not zero risk, but just free. In addition, gold earned colossal sums of money. And it was all wasted! It was wasted so that Estonia did not do any kind of development leap on the basis of this money. This is a lesson that must be kept in mind today. There's always the idea that we're borrowing to make investments. But yesterday, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance said that we were also borrowing for running expenses. As much as I am an orthodox, I am saying that the state should not borrow for running expenses. For investments, yes, of course. As Toomas Luman said, if this bacterium has done us so much harm, then we may also have moments where it is necessary to overcome [the restriction]. But those countries that have taken on a lot of loans have not done some crazy leap of development. Greece has not done so, Italy has not done so, nor has it done so in Belgium, where there are high taxes and high credit burdens. So I'm just gonna put it to the heart of the government coalition to say about the money they're borrowing, that the discussion is somehow going to work out, that some people say we're taking a loan, others say, "Hey, let's think about it, let's see." But that's not really the point of the debate. The debate is about what to do with this loan. Once again, I say that there was a man like Machiavelli, who wrote a work in 1503, but I don't remember the title, where there is such a place inside that the ruler must be goats, the ruler must not give gifts, that when the ruler gives gifts to the individual, he does harm to many. That is what we should in any case avoid in our monetary policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U148	Thank you. There's no more calls.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U149	I'll be back upstairs. So I'm going to continue the role of leadership. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. We have exhausted the second item on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U150	We will go to the third item on the agenda: Second reading of draft law 185 on the amendment of the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur is Priit Sibul, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the amendment of the Family Benefits Act and the related amendment of other laws on flag day, last Thursday, 4 June. It is recalled that the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act is relatively technical. There is a desire to change certain aspects because the changes made to the various laws have led to confusion and a variety of interpretations. For example, one of them was that when a young person graduates from primary school, the moment comes when he no longer receives child support, but when he goes to vocational school or upper secondary school, he gets back. One aspect was this. Secondly, there are a number of technical changes. In addition to these, we did not stop very much on the draft at this meeting on 4 June, because we had received a letter from the Minister for Population on 2 June asking for a number of new aspects to be introduced into this draft, which I spoke to you in this large Chamber at first reading. That's a request from the Minister. These amendments were presented to us by Lea Danilson-Järg, Head of the Department of Population and Family Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, and by advisor Merlin Murumets. In broad terms, the suggestions contained in this letter are divided into three groups. Firstly, the extension of the period of protection for successive births of parental benefit from two and a half years to three years and the reduction of the waiting period for maintenance aid from four months to one month. The spread of the virus causing COVID-19 has weakened the economic security of families with children, affecting both family planning choices and the well-being of existing children. The changes will support the economic livelihood of families with children and thus help to mitigate the negative impact of the spread of the virus on the families affected by the changes. Secondly, the implementing provisions specify the period of validity of certain provisions in order to ensure that the provisions of the Family Benefits Act are better understood in the versions which enter into force at different times. The Minister's third wish was to adjust the validity of the amendments made to the law on family benefits by the law on the amendment of the law on the assistant police officer and other laws. I'll tell you straight away, that's what we're gonna get to next week. I have a good opportunity here, on behalf of myself and the Commission, to thank our advisor, Heidi Barot, who tracked and realised that it is not possible to change these laws over and over again, because we have come up with a situation where, as a result of the various amendments, several different wordings are under the same number and cannot be changed this way over and over again today. That is why the Committee on Social Affairs did not discuss or vote on these amendments. We decided to continue the debate on these amendments next Tuesday. On 21 May, we addressed the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Social Insurance Board and the Tax and Customs Board in writing. Our opinion was sent to us by the Child Welfare Association and the unemployment fund. The Unemployment Insurance Fund had no comments on the draft. The Child Welfare League had a request that if we adopted this draft in this large hall, we would definitely inform and present this idea more widely, including in Russian, so that these changes could reach different target groups. We also had the Chancellor of Koja Kristi Hunt, the bailiffs and bankruptcy administrators in the Commission, who did not deal with parental benefits, but the second subject of the draft: reducing the waiting period for the payment of maintenance aid. The Chamber was involved in this process and accepted and satisfied with this amendment. I have pointed out on several occasions today that the Minister's letter touched on coronavir. A good colleague, Signe Riisalo, noted, and I had to agree with him in committee, that we too often justify changes to the same virus, but in real life not all the changes we make are caused by the consequences of the virus. This draft and the amendments proposed by the Minister in his letter would have made sense without the virus. These amendments were also proposed by the Commission. The substantive amendments to this letter have been drafted into eight amendments supported by the Commission. We also had one amendment from the Reform Party, the content of which is... I'll see... It is proposed that only the last four months before the child's expected birth be deducted from the period for calculating the amount of personalised social contributions (21 months) on which the parental benefit is calculated. That is the exact proposal of the Reform Party. Interestingly, this amendment was substantiated by Signe Riisalo, representative of the Reform Party Group, and the arguments put forward by Lea Danilson-Follow that opposed it were the same. Contrary to the contrary, the arguments were similar. This amendment was not supported by the Commission. The Commission decided that, as the amendments resulting from the ministerial letter alter the substance of the draft, the Commission's proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft and set the deadline for the submission of the amendments on Thursday morning. This was a brief overview of what happened in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U152	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Then it will be possible to open negotiations. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U153	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, who are you in this Chamber or in your rooms? The decrease in the number of births is, in fact, a major concern for us. We consider that 77% of births, i.e. 7660 births, were lost as a result of population decline and 23% as a result of human behaviour, i.e. 2290 births. It is behavior that we can change. Population scientists explicitly say that Estonia is a generous country.. compared to other countries, we support children and families well, but fine-tuning is needed to change people's behaviour. This is the fine-tuning that the Reform Party is trying to offer here. All the changes to this draft are excellent. Our proposal would be to take another step forward. To this end, the reference period should be changed to avoid suffering from enterprising and young people whose incomes have increased just before pregnancy. Therefore, we have proposed that 21 months, as is the case with the law, should be the reference period, but it would also take into account the first five months of pregnancy, so that students or young mothers who have made a career should not lose their incomes and could pay the housing loan or higher car leases associated with family planning. We are asking you to support this proposal in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U154	Is there any other wish to participate in the negotiations? There is no wish to participate in the negotiations. We have a few minutes left, but within that time we should have revised amendments. So, amendments to draft 185. The first amendment. Yes, the first amendment is long and comprehensive. I'm sorry, I'm sorry! The first amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the proposal of the commission is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U155	Thank you. We ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U156	All right. I shall put to the vote... A procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U157	Since people are still coming from committees, would it be possible to ask for a two-minute break on behalf of the EKRE Group?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U158	Two minutes break. Then we're going to tomorrow? [[The excitement in the hall.]] Maybe you can get through without a break, we can vote it off. The EKRE Group wants a break. Okay, it's got to be. How many minutes? Two minutes break for the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-09_U159	We're still ringing the bell, but we still have a few minutes. All right. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft amendment 185 by the Reform Party Group, Amendment 1, which has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 29 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 37 against. The proposal was not supported. Let's keep looking. We will also examine the following amendments: The second amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. The third amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the lead committee has taken full account of it. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs, fully taken into account. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs, fully taken into account. The seventh amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal is to be taken fully into account. The eighth amendment is also from the Committee on Social Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The ninth amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs, as well as to take full account of it. Okay. We have examined the amendments to this draft. We have the commission's proposal to interrupt the second reading of Bill 185. Second reading aborted. The deadline for tabling amendments is 11 June at 10 a.m. The latest item on the agenda, the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs will remain tomorrow. That's it. Closure of the sitting at 2 p.m.
