ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 9th working week. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U2	73 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, no 28.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U3	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft Act 246 on the ratification of the Investment Protection Treaty between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U4	President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the procedure for the draft Act on the ratification of the Investment Protection Treaty between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, on the other, initiated by the Government of the Republic, on 21 September. The first reading of the draft was completed on 21 October. No amendments were tabled within the deadline for amendments. The Committee on Foreign Affairs decided by consensus at its meeting on 16 November to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft 246 be placed on the agenda for the second reading of the plenary session on 24 November, to conclude the second reading and to hold a final vote. I would like to ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U5	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft of 246 and we are going to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act on ratification of the Investment Protection Treaty between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, on the other. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U6	78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U7	Today's second item is the second reading of the 200 draft law amending the Notarial Law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Mr Vilja Toomas, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U8	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Notarial Act and other laws was at first reading in the Riigikogu on 14 October, including. In short, from the content of this bill to remind you. The draft amends 14 laws, especially those concerning freelances. The main amendment is the Notarial Act, which amends in particular the procedure for the appointment of notaries. There is also a requirement for notaries to be required to complete further training, an increase in the hourly fee for bailiffs, which is long overdue, and a harmonisation of penalties for notaries and bailiffs. They will be substantially increased in the event of particularly serious infringements. The Law on Legal Assistance is also amended and rules on the submission of documents on the remuneration of lawyers are established. The remaining amendments concern amendments to these laws. The Commission prepared the draft for a second reading at its meeting on Monday 16 November. The members of the Legal Affairs Committee and the advisers also took part in the meeting by Gunnar Vaikmaa, Head of the Free Professions Department of the Justice Administration Department of the Ministry of Justice, Helen Vahkal and Maret Saanküll, advisers of the same department, Merle Saar-Johanson, Chairman of the Notaries Chamber, Koja chancellor of bailiffs and bankrat administrators, and Tatjana Afanasjeva, Member of the Board of Directors, notaries Kristel Jänese and Triin Tein, Notary candidates Margit Halop and Lyli Junti. So much so that there was no member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Kert Kingo. No amendments were tabled by the deadline for amendments, 28 October by the members of the Riigikogu or by the political groups. However, the Attorneys-at-Law had asked the Ministry of Justice to refer the matter to the Commission for the Commission to initiate some amendments. The Ministry of Justice submitted three proposals for consideration and initiation by the Commission to the Commission. The first proposal concerns the Bar Act. More specifically, it concerns the conduct of the General Assembly of the Bar Association and gives the Bar Association the opportunity to conduct the General Assembly as a whole as a physical meeting, in part as a physical meeting and in part by electronic means or by electronic means as a whole. The amendments relate in particular to how the Estonian Bar Association can carry out its general assembly in such a way that as many members as possible can participate and vote in the decision-making process. Electronic voting at the General Assembly takes place on the basis of § 331 of the General Part of the Civil Code Act; only a reference to it is included in the Bar Act. Let me remind you that we discussed this draft in the spring when we discussed amendments to the General Part of the Civil Code Act. Members of the Bar shall be given the opportunity to vote on decisions on the agenda of the General Assembly in such a way as to enable those decisions to be reproduced in writing. A member of the Bar Association who took part in a preliminary vote shall be deemed to be a member of the Bar Association which has participated in the General Assembly. The last amendment to the Bar Act concerns those lawyers whose membership has been suspended or whose professional activities have been suspended. Arrangements shall be made for the General Assembly to determine the amount of their membership fee. According to the current law, a lawyer whose membership has been suspended is subject to one-tenth of the membership fee imposed on members of the Bar Association. The Commission also decided to initiate these amendments by consensus. The second amendment was submitted to the Commission for consideration by the Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators. Its content is briefly that a bailiff who has been employed as bailiff's assistant before the expiry of three years of the bailiff's dismissal or who has worked as bailiff's assistant for at least one year may be replaced by a bailiff. The Committee on Legal Affairs also supported this proposal by consensus and initiated this amendment. The third amendment concerns the State Legal Aid Act. It is requested that the basic regulation of the State Legal Aid Information System be established by the Minister responsible for the field, i.e. the Minister for Justice. The reason is that other national information systems are also under the administration of the Ministry of Justice. The fourth amendment initiated by the Commission is related to the previous one and says that the State Legal Aid Information System will start on 1 July 2021, although the law itself will enter into force earlier. One proposal to initiate the amendment came from the Chamber of Notaries. According to the draft, a notary participating in a competition for the performance of a post must pass the examination and, if he fails the examination, must pass an evaluation interview organised by the examination committee. If the notary fails to pass the exam or this assessment interview, he will be removed from office. The Chamber of Notaries wishes to introduce the same regulation for notary candidates, only with the difference that if a notary candidate fails the exam and fails the evaluation interview, it will still be given the opportunity to pass the exam within three years and continue in the status of the notary candidate. But if he fails, doesn't pass the exam or interview in three years, he'll be suspended from the post of notary candidate. The Ministry of Justice did not support it and the Committee on Legal Affairs did not support it either. We therefore did not initiate this amendment. Notary candidates Lyli Junti and Margit Halop wished to table their amendments to the draft. Their wish was that the candidate for the notary's post in the notary competition should not pass the exam if he had ever passed the notary exam. He could take part in the competition and pass the exam only if he wants to improve his test result or grade. And the second wish they had was that if this bill, which we are now talking about, was passed, it would not apply to notary candidates who passed the notary examination before 1 January 2021. Notary candidates also found that candidates could be notary replacements, even if in the meantime their service had stopped or if they had never started working as notary since they passed the exam. The Ministry of Justice did not support these ideas and neither did the members of the Commission. The justification was that the last notary exams have actually been passed in 2008 and 2009 and in the meantime the legal space has changed a lot. These exams are no longer comparable to those currently taken. All notary candidates and notaries who are required to take the test for filling a post must be treated in the same way to ensure that the principle of equal treatment is applied. The Commission therefore did not support this amendment and did not initiate it. The notaries Kristel Jänese and Triin Tein also wished that the new procedure for the nomination of notaries would not apply to notaries who passed the exam before 1 January 2021 and take into account the result of the notary examination. But the main concern raised by these notaries is how to ensure the availability of notary services in smaller and non-perspective places. Unfortunately, if the Ministry of Justice announces a notary competition, then figuratively speaking, if the place is somewhere in Võru or Põlva, where the notary candidates do not particularly want to go, first of all there is little work and often the place of residence should be changed, then they would rather try to pass the exams as badly as possible to fail and wait for a new competition if the notary place was declared in a more prospective and better place. The Justice Department said it wasn't really a problem. So far, no place has been filled and it has been found that the House of Notaries has been able to fill it, even temporarily. No region has left without notaries, and there is no point in introducing such regulation. The Notaries tried to claim that this new law would not solve this problem. But the Ministry of Justice explained that, in fact, in recent years, about three competitions have been announced for the execution of a notary place. Currently, there are a dozen notary candidates in Estonia and a notary has always been found as a temporary replacement. The proposals and opinions were even more important, but those that I reported to you were more important. However, this principle was not supported by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the amendment was not initiated. To sum up now and not waste your time, I will also read the decisions made by the Commission. It was decided to propose a draft to be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 November 2020, to propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the final vote be taken on 9 December 2002. All three decisions were taken by consensus. That's all for me right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U9	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U10	Good manager and waitress! The Bar Association is a non-profit organization like thousands, tens of thousands of others. I ask whether you have also discussed that now, during a pandemic, it is understandable that the form of work must be flexible, can come directly or can vote electronically. One way or the other. There is also the possibility that you will vote in writing before you have sent such a letter, which means taking part in the quorum. Does every NGO have to see for itself how it sets out, or is it now everywhere that it can, as before, send a letter that you decide whether or not to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U11	If you remember, in the spring we discussed the General Part of the Civil Code Act and it laid down general principles for the bodies of many legal entities to carry out general assemblies. In fact, the board of directors of the Bar Association and, more generally, the management of the body of a natural person, in general, establish the arrangements for the organisation of the General Assembly. Rules shall be laid down as to whether it takes place only in the form of a physical meeting or in part by physical means and in part by electronic means, and how voting will take place. Voting, as I said, is provided for in Section 331 of the General Part of the Civil Code Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U12	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U13	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, first of all, thank you for such a long and clear presentation. But you started with this bill changing the lawyer's pay. Does the state intervene in determining the lawyer's remuneration? Or is it when the state orders some kind of service from a lawyer? What does that really mean? One important part of the bill is the remuneration of the lawyer from which you started your report.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U14	When I said that the bill was about the pay of lawyers, I probably got my tongue wrong. In fact, it concerns the hourly fee of bailiffs, which has been very low, and now the hourly fee is being increased. There is little regulation that, from the second hour onwards, the bailiff's fee will rise to 40 euros. So when I was talking about lawyers, my tongue slipped. Actually, it's about the bailiff.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U15	Aivar Chef, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U16	You also noted that the Commission proposed some improvements. Maybe you'll specify that the regulation on the Legal Aid Information System will now be placed under the Minister's authority. Where was it before? Who made that decision before? Was it written in the law or somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U17	It was first established by the Bar Association. This amendment to the State Legal Aid Act, which we are making, is primarily about the barrister's lawyers. And it used to be under the bar, and now it's generally going to the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U18	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U19	You mentioned that bailiffs pay too low. I think it's the other way around. When we talk about their service, they can finally make some ten-euro traffic ticket maybe a couple hundred euros, because they're asking for 20 euros or more for every letter they send. Do you really think, or did the Commission think that their income was too low and should be increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U20	Thank you. Both the Ministry of Justice and the Committee on Legal Affairs did indeed consider their remuneration to be low. First of all, it hasn't changed in 20 years, but prices have increased quite a bit during that time. So, indeed, the Commission accepted the Ministry of Justice's proposal to increase the hourly fee for bailiffs so that, at least exactly as you said, the costs necessary for sending letters, receiving basic materials, etc. would be covered. It is claimed that these charges do not cover the cost that bailiffs have to do their job.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U21	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U22	Good manager and waitress! I'm gonna ask you the other way around. If you drive through a traffic cam and you exceed, for example, 3 km/h or a little bit more speed, you'll get a little fine, which will have to be paid into the Ministry of Finance's cup. If for some reason you haven't noticed this message, you're about to get a bailiff's letter and, as my penguin assistant described here, it's almost 20 euros. And in the end, it's gonna get really big. If the Commission thinks it's okay, do you, as a member of the Commission, think that notaries do not abuse this opportunity to serve? Perhaps they earn too much, even in the case of fines from these traffic cameras, by sending letters with a red stamp?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U23	Thank you. I wasn't talking about the pay of notaries, that's a whole other subject, I'm talking about the pay of bailiffs, which the state is putting in place. I'm just suggesting that if you've broken the law, you have to pay your fine. That's the warning ticket, and that's why it's relatively small. It's a warning ticket, so you'll be more careful next time. And neither the Commission nor the Ministry had any objections. These fees have really gotten in the way of time and could cover the real costs of bailiffs so that they can complete their work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U24	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. There are four amendments to the draft and we will examine them together here. The first amendment tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the commission of directors: take full account of it. The second amendment is also the position put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account of it. The third amendment is the position put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account of it. And the fourth amendment is also the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee: take full account of it. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 200. The second reading is closed and the second item is under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U25	And we'll keep going. Today's third item is the development plan for agriculture and fisheries until 2030. I'd like to ask Arvo Aller, Minister of Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress. Before the Minister starts with this item on the agenda, I will briefly present the agenda for this item. First, the presentation by the Minister for Rural Affairs, Arvo Aller, is up to 20 minutes, then the presentation by Urmas Kruus, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as well as up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask each of the two rapporteurs a question and all members of the Riigikogu can participate in the negotiations. At the end of the discussion, the decision of the Riigikogu will not be adopted. Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U26	Honourable Riigikogu, representative of Estonian citizens! Agriculture, fisheries, aquaculture, the food industry and food culture are areas covering the entire Estonian population and territory, which played an important role in the historical identity of Estonian rural and coastal peoples and in shaping the well-being and living environment of people, including Estonian landscapes. The development plan for agriculture and fisheries until 2030, or the Põka draft, has been drawn up for more than three years. The draft was launched on 8 December 2018 and has been under the political leadership of five ministers. A total of more than 30 separate development documents will be linked by the development plan. More than 500 experts from more than 150 representative organisations have participated in the process, and now I have the honour to present you with an overview of this development plan. The vision set out in the 2030 work together is as follows: "Estonia's food is appreciated and it is good to live in the countryside! " It integrates the links between sustainable food production and a functioning rural economy in the vision we want for the future. There isn't one without the other. According to the vision, Estonian food of good repute will have a demand in both domestic and foreign markets in 2030, which will ensure that all actors in the supply chain have sufficient income for the products, food and services they produce. A good rural area is characterised by an attractive living and business environment where well-paid and diverse work can be done and active communities act together. For this reason, in 2030 life on land has been valued, developed and prosperous, and there is room for both large and small companies that contribute to the development of the rural economy. A measurable general objective was also formulated to implement the vision. This is: "Estonia's food is preferred, the environment and biodiversity are preserved, food companies are successful and rural and coastal communities are viable. "To achieve the overall objective, the production of the agricultural and fisheries sectors and the food industry must be of very good quality, innovative and produced in an environmentally friendly manner. This will require more cooperation, both within and between sectors, and the latest research results and best technologies will need to be implemented. The development plan has two sub-objectives. The first sub-objective: smart and sustainable rural, agriculture, food production, safe food and a safe environment. This will be achieved through seven integrated strands, including the agricultural environment, plant health, animal health and welfare, food safety, high-quality inputs in agriculture, the production, development and marketing of agricultural products, the development of rural and coastal areas, and research innovation and knowledge transfer. Second sub-objective: sustainable fisheries, ensuring the competitiveness of fisheries and sustainable management of fisheries resources. This includes the aquaculture strand. The objectives and lines of action of the development plan shall take into account both sustainable development and climate change mitigation and adaptation needs. Horizontal development topics include bio-economy, export, the living and natural environment and the integrated development of the rural area. The private sector also contributes to meeting the 2030 targets through its sectoral development plans. Through eight courses of action, PKA will help integrate the objectives of the sectoral development plan, which has so far been separate from 30, within the framework of the national budgetary strategy for 2030. At the same time, Põka will support the achievement of the country's central strategy "Estonia 2035" and the action plan adopted at the UN summit "We will change the world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development" and the objectives of the Estonian Sustainable Estonia 21 strategy "Sustainable Estonia 21" such as economic coping, food security, health and well-being, sustainable production and consumption, oceans and marine resources, Earth's ecosystems and the vitality of Estonia's cultural space. The development plan is the basis for planning the programming period 2021 to 2027 of the common agricultural and fisheries policy of the European Union and also contributes to the implementation of the objective of the European Green Agreement measure "The Farm to the plate" to move towards a healthier and more sustainable food system in the European Union. The agricultural and fisheries sectors also need to change in order to meet the overall objective. These sectors cover not only food but also products and services from the secondary sectors of agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture and the bioeconomy in general. High production quality, innovation and environmental friendliness are prerequisites for maintaining global competition. More cooperation is needed, including between different sectors, the use of the latest scientific achievements and best technologies. Estonia is well equipped in several sectors (in particular milk, fish and cereals), which is why we have enough domestic food for us and can be exported in various volumes. It is important for Estonia that we are constantly able to supply our own basic foods as diverse as possible. This will provide people with consistent and secure access to food, both in emergency situations, in emergency situations and in the event of disruption of vital services. In addition to covering the demand for the internal market, new markets must be found for products and the main risks must be mitigated, be they due to production or markets. Given the volatility of markets, sufficient opportunities must be created to deal with crises. A good rural environment ensures a sustainable and ecologically functioning Estonian environment in particular. Production and the environment act by interacting, production must not be at the expense of the environment. A person and family living in the countryside, who is aware of the manufacturer and consumer, who does smart, well paid and motivated work, maintains a living environment and is happy in a clean and secure environment, is at the heart of all the objectives of the Põka. People are kept in the countryside by their home, community and ownership. The preservation of settlement in rural areas helps to ensure the security of the country. The development plan will be implemented in cooperation with partners dealing with the development issues of agriculture, fisheries, aquaculture, the food industry and rural and coastal areas. The implementation is managed by the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment. I would like to point out here that I am one of the 500 experts who participated in the preparation of Põka, accompanied by the Ministry of Rural Affairs, because I participated in several working groups working as a consul for the Association of Farmers in Ida-Virumaa. I sense these challenges formulated by PõIs and the people whose lives and activities are facilitated by the policies agreed upon by PõKas. Honourable Riigikogu! In the view of partners involved in the development plan, the bio-economy, the living and natural environment, exports and the integrated development of rural areas are among the cross-cutting issues affecting the achievement of the overall 2030 objective and the objectives of the eight strands of action. Figuratively speaking, these are the four wheels of Põka 2030, which are driven by the direction of research and innovation, sustainable government and the financial resources of both the European Union and the Estonian state. The producers also have high expectations of improving the bio-economy, the living and natural environment, exports and the development of the rural area as a whole. The expectations of the bioeconomy are linked to the relatively good supply of bio-resources in Estonia compared to the countries of the European Union, but the austerity added value created in their management is a bottleneck: exports of unprocessed or under-processed products are high. One important direction of the bioeconomy is the introduction of bio-waste and co-products, which are not yet widespread in Estonia. With the help of R &amp; D and knowledge transfer, industrial biotechnology solutions must be created and introduced in the agricultural and fisheries sectors, including marine aquaculture. It is necessary to contribute to the establishment of suitable bio-crediting plants for primary producers and to support the necessary R &amp; D activities, including pilot and demonstration projects. The producers' expectations of improving the living and natural environment are linked to the fact that Estonia has good prerequisites for environmentally friendly food production. Due to the state of natural resources, climate change and society's expectations, the agricultural and fisheries sectors must maintain it by using the natural and living environment. It is important to ensure that groundwater and surface water are in good condition, land and soil use is balanced and sustainable, nature biodiversity, species and habitats are preserved, risks to human and animal health are avoided, landscapes remain diverse and the effects of climate change are taken into account. More attention needs to be paid to solutions enabling the agricultural and fisheries sectors to reduce the use of non-renewable resources and to reduce food losses and waste at all stages of the value chain. The expectations of the producers in the field of exports are as follows: Estonia has good prerequisites for exporting food products, but in order to create competitive products and achieve substantial volumes, the ability to process domestic raw materials and to produce organic production requires a leap of development. It is important to know the specificities of markets and consumer preferences and to respond to market demand. Consumers' expectations of food safety, animal welfare, raw materials, cleanliness of the growing environment and the environmental impact of production are becoming very important. Responding to them and making it very visible will give companies as well as Estonian food an additional quality label. To increase exports, a global trading environment is needed, which requires international cooperation and presence from Estonia. The producers' expectations for the integrated development of rural areas are even higher. The rural area is viable if it is open and can take advantage of the opportunities brought about by socio-economic and environmental changes and trends. In order for the countryside to live well and the rural areas to be viable, the problems and opportunities there must be addressed in a holistic way. Beyond 2030, support measures are provided for the integrated development of the living and business environment, the settlement of rural areas, the promotion of activities aimed at young people, the strengthening of the role of the community and the participation in local life, the awareness of the rural image and the role of rural areas and the promotion of entrepreneurship in rural areas. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Looking at the results of recent decades' regional and rural policy in numbers, today we could turn our eyes together on the future and think boldly about what our farms, rural businesses and rural and coastal life could be in 2030. In ten years' time, life in the countryside will be with strong and coherent communities, diverse entrepreneurship, developed, prosperous, beautiful landscapes, highly valued and well-known, and there will be room for both large and small enterprises that contribute to the development of the rural economy. The sense of ownership in the country is enhanced by active family businesses. The aim is to create a living environment where you want to build your own home and a company. In order to achieve all of this, PõKa will contribute to 2030, but it is important to establish links with local regional, business, education and social policy in general, in cooperation with ministries. Of course, there is still a great deal to be done. As you travel around the country, you may have noticed that many homes want to adjust and make the green pact more energy-efficient in the wind. To do so, they certainly need the support of the state. In total, there are nearly 70 indexes and impact indicators at the level of the general objective, sub-target and action lines for 2030, which measure the complex processes of rural economy, nature and society management. The mid-term review of 2030 in 2023 also plans to improve the relevance of the metrics. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Certainly, some of you have already asked, in other respects, what are the national and international challenges and the problems that the development of PKA 2030 will contribute to and why it is needed at all. In addition to reducing the fragmentation of development documents in the area mentioned above, the national planning of the objectives and interventions of the new planning period of the European Union was important in the preparation of Põka. In all of this, as a relatively small country and as an economy, we must carefully consider the international context and the economic and regional policy opportunities of Estonia, without forgetting the important aims of the Preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia: we must ensure the preservation of Estonian nation, language and culture throughout the entire territory of Estonia. Globally, agricultural, fisheries and food industries have undergone significant changes in recent decades. They mainly relate to increased incomes, new technologies, the state of the environment, changes in consumer attitudes and preferences, trade liberalisation, energy and urbanisation. This has led in particular to an increase in consumption and global trade, an increase in production and concentration. A more sustainable use of natural resources has become a central issue due to climate change. The increase in extreme weather conditions and global warming will lead to the desertification of large areas and will lead to extensive water scarcity in regions. These trends can in turn lead to resource-related conflicts and greater emigration from the affected regions. Estonia's operating environment is significantly shaped by its membership of the European Union, which is the world's largest exporter and importer of agricultural products. The production of the European Union's food industry stands out in high quality and versatility. The high food safety and environmental standards in the European Union support the positive image of food in the European Union. Common European Union policies guarantee uniform market rules. More efficient use of bio-resources, by-products and waste is essential in the European Union as a whole. As an open and export-oriented small country, Estonia must place a great deal of emphasis on international cooperation, the development of multilateral and bilateral trade and cooperation relations, as well as cooperation with international organisations in order to use the best international knowledge to adapt to global trends and discover new marketing opportunities. In a changing natural and economic environment, we must be prepared to mitigate strategic risks and, based on our experience, be more capable of shaping the key policies of the European Union, including the common agricultural policy and the fisheries policy, in accordance with the interests of Estonia. The contribution to energy aid contributes to the creation of a positive image of Estonia in general. It will develop external relations and create additional contacts as a prerequisite for exporting products and services to new markets. In a situation of limited resources, the State must ensure a functioning economic environment, which means in particular decisions based on knowledge and negotiated with different target groups, ensuring a legal space that meets society's expectations and sustainable performance standards, providing monitoring services related to the management of strategic risks, as well as broadening trade opportunities. Unrecoverable aid should be used in particular for economically non-productive investments, such as climate and environmental compliance and social entrepreneurship investments in rural and coastal areas, but also for measures relating to the exchange of small enterprises and generations. Other financial instruments should be preferred when financing productive investments. It is important that businesses act more consciously and take responsibility for managing risks. In the light of the above context, the general basis for State intervention logic is the relationship between private and public goods. The eight courses of action, which provide a general approach, must also draw attention to the interrelationship, taking the big picture together. These eight directions, formulated in cooperation, form a complex, organically linked whole of the development needs and objectives of agriculture, fisheries, aquaculture, the food industry and rural and coastal areas in Estonia. It is the land of our ancestors, the sea, the rivers, the lakes, and we all want it to be good for us to live here and the people of the country to be happy with their work and joy. Honourable Riigikogu! The COVID-19 crisis that has exploded in the world since Põka's 2030 bill was presented to the Riigikogu has not fundamentally altered the vision and general objectives formulated in Põka's co-creation. I would like to stress that during the preparation of Põka 2030, we closely involved experts from other ministries and the State Chancellery, representatives of the business environment, community associations, university scientists. The wording of the final version of the development plan has been thoroughly discussed and consensus has been reached. Finally, honourable members of the Riigikogu, representatives of the people, I would like to emphasise four points.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U27	Minister, I interrupt. How much more time do you need? Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U28	Thank you. Four thoughts. Firstly, the current crisis has again shown how important a strategic area for each country is domestic agriculture, fisheries and the food industry sector. Secondly, I believe we understand in the same way: keeping and modernising the rural and rural economy in Estonia is, to a large extent, possible only in cooperation with all ministries, the Riigikogu, business sectors, community associations and universities. Only together can we stand for life in all 45,000 square kilometres of Estonia to progress and develop so that Estonia lives. Thirdly, it is clear that those people and their associations who helped in one way or another to draft the Põka 2030 bill will also help to implement the agreed objectives and policies of the Põka. Life has shown that development plans, laws, and money do nothing on their own when people agree to do something. Perhaps 2030 is a broad-based agreement, a lively development document in which we have formulated measurable objectives and policies for the coming years. Fourthly, I would like to thank everyone who contributed almost half a thousand experts and co-thinkers from more than 150 organisations over the last three years, including Põka's preliminary evaluators of the impact of eight courses of activities in 2030 from the Estonian University of Life Sciences and strategic environmental impact assessment from Hendrikson & Ko. Finally, I thank the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu for the constructive discussions that have taken place from March to November. Many thanks and strength in working together to promote the rural and rural economy of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U29	Thank you. You have questions too. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U30	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Thank you for a thorough review of the agricultural and fisheries development plan. Cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment has also been explained at the outset and it is justified that cooperation is needed because fisheries management is divided between two ministries. It seems strange to me that the Ministry of the Environment is only involved in fisheries management. The international agreements provide for Estonia to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the sectors of the shared commitment by 13% compared to 2005. Instead, we have now increased it by 17% compared to 2005. We need to reach a 13% reduction from a 17% increase. However, the strategic objective set out in the development plan on page 17 does not really foresee such a reduction. Why is this development plan not in line with international commitments?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U31	Thank you. The aim is certainly to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. When we talk about reducing emissions in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, the main point of cooperation in this development plan was indeed fisheries. In terms of fisheries, we have made different agreements. Now, this emission reduction number I figured out. The greenhouse gas emission reduction target was yes 13%. At the same time, we have had a 50% reduction in greenhouse gases since 1990. Yes, indeed, the increase has been 17% between 2005 and 2017. We can certainly complement the development plan with this aim. I'll write it down, I think we can add it there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U32	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U33	Good manager! Mr. Minister! Interesting reading again, but I discovered with surprise that there are chapters on the welfare of animals and the welfare of plants, etc., but there is no chapter on the well-being of rural people. All kinds of other things have been addressed, but in the area of labour, for example, the need for labour I could not find there. We need some 2 500 migrant workers in the agricultural sector, foreign cash, with only around 500 in the dairy sector and around 2 000 in the strawberry sector. If you believe in the recent report of the National Audit Office, the land is empty, there is no labour force. But here in this capital development plan, there is no muffle in the mapping of labour resources. Do you think that the development plan should be such that animal welfare and health are more important than the existence of humans or the welfare of the land?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U34	Surely we do not think that man is insignificant. It is important for us that the agricultural and fisheries development plan achieves the objectives that we are pursuing. If, here, we set a target for the labour force, whether it is the implementation of local labour or the use of external labour, we would link it to the development plan. Our aim is to provide guidelines for the establishment of a business environment: possible support measures, possible interventions over a ten-year period. Indeed, there are relatively few chapters dealing with the workforce here, precisely in the context that we have problems with the workforce, especially with the skilled workforce. But the contribution to labour force and youth growth is written here. We have pointed out that there is a need for more practical education, for young people to be brought to land and land work through practical activities. Yes, there really is no separate chapter on the labour force.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U35	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U36	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. When setting targets, we often have to answer the question of what problems we are solving in the context of the next ten years. It was in this context that I tried to read this development plan. And I actually come to this point with this question: I see the noble aims of happy communities, strong enterprises in rural areas, coastal areas, but unfortunately I do not see the objective to be pursued anywhere, for example, to harmonise unitary area payments within the European Union. We are talking about markets and new opportunities, the rules of the market, but what the state can do, this specific objective or the solution to the problem, I do not see. And what else is worrying: the National Audit Office has come up with a vision for priority public services. The state cannot be represented in rural areas, including coastal areas, only through the PRIA. There are also clear answers to these questions. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U37	Thank you. What can I say? If we were to introduce the harmonisation of area payments into the development plan for agriculture and fisheries, in fact, this is the subject of another document, this is the European Union's strategy for agricultural policy. According to this development plan, we can create our own intervention sheets, internal to the Estonian state, when using agricultural policy and fisheries funds money. This is a general and greater set of objectives that we want to achieve. And other strategy papers - the European Union's agricultural policy and the fisheries funds - will ensure that it reaches its objectives. According to these, we will make separate intervention sheets and these intervention pages we will come to the Riigikogu, where we will give an overview of the committees which intervention sheets we plan to meet the objectives of the agricultural and fisheries development plan. Now that the PRIA is the only provider of money in the coastal region, that is, of course, unfair. We agree. In rural areas, as well as in coastal areas, all funds could contribute, they are different social funds or cohesion funds. The PRIA is currently the only paying agent in rural areas. This is done on the ground through various action groups, such as Leader or the so-called fish-leader action groups. They do it at the local level. Unfortunately, this really does not exist at the moment through other funds. But we are working in this direction to create opportunities for using other funds in the same way as Leader action groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U38	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U39	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm gonna keep going on people. On 11 November, the Auditor General presented the report on the provision of priority services in Estonia. This report was highly critical and highlighted the demographic problems, the shortage of people. How do you see these bottlenecks in the development plan for agriculture and fisheries? Why should young people come to earth? Do they have everything they need to live there, starting with education, career opportunities, and everything else? If you do not address these issues in the development plan, I think all the other things that are in this development plan are very difficult to realise. If there are no people, then there is no result.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U40	Thank you. Indeed, the correct observation is that if there are no people, there is no implementer of this development plan either. This development plan has been done for three years and the problem that the National Audit Office pointed out has also been discussed for three years. In the same way, it is a pity of all of this; in the other way, it is pleased that it now came out in the course of the audit of the National Audit Office when the vital services were discussed. The goal of the development plan is for people to feel well in the countryside, in rural areas, safe, safe, and with the support of the development plan, to have a vision of the future to move towards. Of course, it would be best for them to create their own jobs in these regions. If they live in the countryside, they should also be able to work remotely. These objectives... When livestock farming is carried out, the health of the animals is important, as is plant production, but the health of the plants is important. These visions or future goals have been dealt with very thoroughly in the development plan, and I believe that this will give people the opportunity and the goal of moving to the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U41	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, For example, the local governments of Võrumaa have jointly agreed that educational institutions in Võrumaa will gradually switch to soft food. My question is: how does this development plan support such an undertaking or organic production more generally? Why don't you stress that again?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U43	Thank you. Organic production is part of agricultural and rural trends. Estonia's organic farming area is currently 21%. The continuation and start of organic activity in the new period will certainly receive particular attention and additional support will certainly come to organic producers. And organic processing is just about adding value. Such processing and cooperative activities will certainly contribute to an increase in the consumption of organic production in the new period. We have thought about this and it will also be reflected in the financing schemes for the new period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U44	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U45	Thank you. Dear Minister, By reading this development plan, you can see that the topics that concern agriculture as an industry and a way of life are quite adequately reflected here. But if we look at the aspect of environmental protection, I believe that ambition is unfortunately few, given that agricultural landscapes make up about a quarter of our surface area, given that half of the nitrogen pollution in Estonian inland waters comes from agriculture and its impact on both biodiversity and the environment at large is undoubtedly great. And when you look at the indicators here, there was talk about organic production, there's talk about total CO2 emissions, I'm asking you this. On page 17, the number of birds in agriculture has decreased twice since 1990. You'll see that in the next period it could fall forward, but at a slower pace than it has so far. Would it not be reasonable, however, to increase ambition in this area? Agriculture could make a dignified contribution to environmental protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U46	Thank you. The decline in the number of farm birds since 1990 has indeed been set out in the development plan. Different measures have been taken to stop this during the current period and also in the previous period. Within the framework of support for environmentally friendly management, specific measures have been launched to encourage the spread of farm birds. This means that for more than one year, grassland could not be cut, and this has slowed down the decline in the number of agricultural birds. Yes, increasing ambition could be one goal. I think we can look at the issue of the abundance of birds and add to this ambition. Thank you for your observation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U47	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am asking about the development plan for fisheries, specifically in the Baltic Sea for professional fisheries. There's really good statistics here. For example, it is pointed out that trawling has reduced fishing capacity over the last decade. This is particularly so as to protect fish stocks, but also, of course, in relation to the great competition in the Baltic Sea countries. No very impressive number: in 2004 there were 153 fishing vessels in the Baltic Sea, in 2018 only 31 vessels. There are a number of ambitious projects to protect the Baltic Sea and improve its environmental status, but eutrophication continues. It's not that easy to reverse the contamination process. What perspective do you describe to men and women whose spirit and entrepreneurial spirit belong to fisheries and maritime affairs? Is their future aquaculture, or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U49	Thank you. There is certainly one direction in the Baltic Sea fisheries, as has been the case so far, for coastal fishermen and also for trawl fisheries. Why has it decreased? The reasons are different, the reduction of fishing quotas, the efficient use of vessels, the increase in fishing capacity. We don't need that many ships anymore. It is important in business that one ship is delivered more effectively. But what can you tell people that it's been an income for? Well, if they're in the trawling sector, there's a concentration. Coastal fishermen have the same thing, and the coastal fishing sector also has different quotas. However, there have been no major reductions in coastal fisheries; rather, quotas have moved from one catcher to another. Of course, its overall decline has taken place, but I think there is a tendency in coastal fishing to joint action, to joint action in the region. It also brings added value.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U50	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U51	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Here's the question. In the development plan, we also set the objective of increasing the area of agricultural land and, at the same time, planning or thinking that it would be necessary to increase the area of forest land in order to mitigate climate change. On the other hand, the question has been raised again that, in the interests of biodiversity, we need significantly more swamp area. How do we solve this dilemma? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U52	Thank you. Indeed, the target has been set at a million hectares of utilised agricultural land instead of the current 984000. What do you think it's gonna be on? In time, the estimated area was 1.3 million hectares. Our ambition has not reached 1.3 million. Part of this 1.3 million has been afforested in previous years. If forest land is in the order of 2 million hectares, increasing agricultural land to 1 million hectares could be a proportionate step to ensure the food security of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U53	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U54	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In your presentation, you said that life on earth in 2030 is worth a lot and wealthy. That's a good goal! But today we're always talking about peripheralization. It has also been said here that the provision of services may decrease, that the trend is this way. How does this development plan help prevent, prevent peripheralisation and maintain services on land?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U55	Thank you. As I said before, these same problems have always been encountered in the development plan: people leaving rural areas and peripheralisation. However, the purpose of this development plan is to provide people with the will to come to their roots, to come to the countryside, to do their own business and to start up their activities, perhaps also by getting ideas from Põka in 2030 on how to cope on the ground. But I think that the subject of peripheralisation is very important and needs to be pointed out. I believe that, based on Põka 2030 and the development plan of "Estonia 2035," we will be able to strengthen the rural environment of the people of Estonia by working together to ensure both the food security of the Estonian state and the overall security of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U56	When processing this item, each member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask a question to each of the rapporteurs. Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The huge potential of the aquaculture sector was already enshrined in the strategy for the development of the aquaculture sector 2014-2020. The biggest problem for offshore water whistlers is, as I understand it, the Ministry of the Environment, who processes building permits for unreasonable lengths. Ösel Harvest, for example, waited six years. That's unreasonable! And a lot of companies are still in the waiting list at the Ministry of the Environment. Let us be honest, this severely inhibits entrepreneurship in rural areas. My colleague Andrus Seed first asked about peripheralization. With one hand, we lend through the MES for investment, and with the other hand, we brake: "Wait now for your building permit! " Unreasonable! Could the responsibility of civil servants for the operation of development plans be included in the Kõkasse? And will this huge potential remain simply a potential until 2030?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U58	Thank you. In setting the objectives of the development plan, we certainly drew on the situation and potential. In this ten-year period, we would like to begin to realise this potential. We have enormously good people, hugely good entrepreneurs in both agriculture and fisheries. In order not to discourage their entrepreneurial activity, it is essential to review the procedures for granting different authorisations and the times for handling authorisations so that pure bureaucracy does not create obstacles for businesses to realise their ideas and to realise their potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U59	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U60	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Certainly, a very hard work has been done and a very dignified document is right in front of us. But the trouble with such development papers and strategy papers tends to be that when they are done and they go to the shelf, they are not taken as a basis for real life. This is often the case. I hope that does not happen to this document. And here's the question. When we look at page 77, we look at how many different sectoral development plans are related to this subject, we see that there are well over 30. And half of it, I'm looking at it, is like it's over this year, they're gonna end up. What is the vision of the future? How are these sectoral development plans associated? Will there be more new sectoral development plans? How do they relate to this Bang? What is your view on how to ensure that this document remains dignified, that its good development is a strategic plan and that sectoral development plans interact with it where it is really needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U61	Thank you. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the specific nature of this document is that sectoral development plans have been brought under it. This is also the consensus, the umbrella document for all these 30 and partly the development plans ending this year and partially ending last year. That is why there have been so many participants, so many organisations have spoken in three years since 2017. Indeed, under the leadership of all the previous good ministers, this development plan has been drawn up. All these parts of the 30 development plans will end this year, the part will end in 2021 or 2023 will be reflected in the current development plan for PõKas, agriculture and fisheries. They relate to it exactly like that. And this development plan will not stop because, on the basis of the agricultural and fisheries development plan, a new period of intervention will be drawn up from the European Union's resources for action. These are the goals we want to achieve. And the European Union's resources will help implement the development plan for agriculture and fisheries.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U62	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! First of all, thank you for a very educational report. But my question concerns this area a little indirectly, i.e. crisis and war supplies, food supplies. We should not, after all, draw up any separate plans to create them. Shouldn't this issue also be addressed in this development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U64	Thank you. A separate stock agency has been set up to ensure food security and crisis stocks. This is how we build up our stocks. In this development plan, we are reflecting food security and food production during the crisis so that we can produce the necessary food quantities for the country in times of crisis and emergencies. Food production and food security during emergency situations are reflected in the development plan. The important objective is also to ensure that the Estonian people are fed in an emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U65	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I now ask Urmas Kruuse, Vice-Chairman of the Rural Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! Good guests! As the Minister pointed out in his presentation, this is a summary of almost 30 development plans in one development plan and strategy paper up to 2030. The number of participants who participated in the development of this development plan was impressive: there were over 100 companies and almost 500 experts, which made the preparation of this development plan, the process of bringing it to this hall very long. To say a few more words about this preparation process, at least those who took part in this process considered inclusion to be very positive and were clearly satisfied with the process of inclusion. This was demonstrated by the feedback studies. Another important labelling is that, if bureaucracy generally adopts development plans, the specific nature of this document is that, since it has been approved by the sector, many of whom are active in this area, it can be assumed that it can be implemented together. For the sake of statistics, I will give you some chronology. Indeed, we started preparing this development plan for discussion, including on 17 March, when the Commission was appointed rapporteur here. On 9 March, the next meeting was when we met representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The next sittings were 11.05. 17, 18.05. 8, 9.06. and 21.09. , which shows that in order for the Commission to have a better overview of this process and to understand the issues and problems addressed in the preparation of this development plan, we had to hold the right number of sessions. We divided these sessions into more or less sectoral groups: the topics of entrepreneurs, which were also discussed by representatives of the sector, were representative organisations, environmental issues, universities. And when you look at the packages of questions that we have raised, some of them are exactly the same as the good people have already marked in this Chamber a few moments ago. One major area certainly was the labour force.• labour issues from a number of points of view. It was not only that we had domestic problems of growth and regional labour, but also that we discussed the issue of seasonal workers and foreign labour at all. Indeed, this issue has not been addressed in this key and to a large extent in the development plan. The Honourable Minister also gave us some explanations here, but the same lack of consideration of labour force, follow-up and food security in drawing up the development plan was also criticised by Ants-Hannes Viira, the representative of the University of Life Sciences. The workforce is certainly a subject that needs attention. We may have a little slowed down the progress of this development plan because the Ministry did not want to introduce these changes. And he remained loyal to his position almost to the end, saying that since the process of preparing this development plan has been so long and he has received coordination from the same experts who have participated in it, it is unreasonable to make changes before going to government. However, a separate labour force survey was allowed in this sector and the data obtained could be used after three years for the mid-term evaluation. I think this is important. The second question that we had in the Commission was about the material or financial side of the development plan and the capacity to implement it. The point is that each development plan clearly needs financial resources to implement the objectives set. The Ministry replied in such a way that in such a long-term perspective the exact planning of budget resources is complex, at times almost impossible. This is why an analysis has been carried out of what funding has been available in previous periods, what experience has been gained, what cash flow from the European Union can be, and what efforts have been made to allocate it over the years. I think it's almost $4 billion in ten years, if I remember correctly. But what is important and which I think has been given little attention to both in planning the financial perspective of this development plan and by today's government in the country as a whole, is that there will be a significant increase in co-financing in the new period, and also in agriculture. The co-financing obligation is particularly relevant to the rural development programme (RDP) financing, i.e. linked to the second pillar. What strategic decisions are taken by the Ministry and the Government as a whole, whether these possible amounts are moved between the two pillars, also depends very much on which direction can be supported more in the development plan. If I remember correctly, the Honorable Minister called one of the interventions the intervention pages. This actually means that the CAP strategy plan provides an opportunity to target certain activities in these years, either year by year or over a slightly longer period. It is also very important in this Chamber to have a question about what has become of the development plans that are now ending or have already ended. In this context, it was asked what knowledge we have acquired thanks to these development plans and whether they have been included as input into this document. The Minister, in his reply, gave the impression that progress on the basis of these development plans had been introduced here, but I had the impression that it was more in the key that we have linked the objectives of the development plan so as not to duplicate them. We would like an audit to be carried out on how the objectives of the RDP for the period 2014 to 2020 have been achieved and how we have achieved this. This is, in my opinion, very important; we should certainly do this. Now, if you look at this particular development strategy, there are five metrics in this big picture. One is the added value created by agriculture, forestry and fishing and food production and the beverage industry for occupancy, a three-year moving average. This is a measure of added value, which has been taken at its initial level in the years 2016 to 2018. In our tables it is EUR 25101. The target level for 2030 should be EUR 29100. Another important indicator is the ratio between the export value of agricultural products and the value of food imports. Here the baseline is 0,74 and the target is 0.82 in 2030. What's this about? When we look at the relationship between the export of agricultural products and the import of food products, we see that this is negative for us. This means that we import more products with higher added value, and it creates a disadvantage for us. The target set shows the objective that we will be able to turn it in a positive direction over the next ten years, i.e. we will deliver less so-called raw materials and will be able to produce and export products with higher added value from raw materials on the ground. This also applies to intermediate products: we could deserve them and produce ourselves the final products we use as consumers. Of course, why we are making these development plans: we want us to have good quality food in Estonia. One measure is that the share of Estonian consumers who prefer to buy domestic food is now 74%. We want to bring it to 75% by 2030. There is certainly a question of whether this is too little ambition. Some say definitely not. When we assess long-term consumer behaviour, we notice that preparedness is always greater than what we actually have in the cart. And as a result, perhaps there is no courage to raise this target strongly. There are 22 components of the food safety barometer. It is clear that there must be food safety. In this context, you can see that this has to be the maximum. This actually means that the proportion of negative results resulting from the checks must be kept to a minimum. So much depends on the number of samples to be taken when there is a potential risk to human health. Now the environment. Well, we were talking about the environment. At present, greenhouse gas emissions are measured against the value of agricultural production and using an indicator per tonne of EUR 1000. The 2007 coefficient was 2.5. We want to take it down, so it's less than 2.5. Historically, it is actually such an interesting thing that a very large part of this emissions or crap is related to livestock farming. We've grown up on our own, and now we're trying to convert this figure to a livestock unit. This means that we would like to reduce pollution per animal unit, but this level does not fall as strongly as we want. The question is also that we must constantly balance the capacity of the company, the ability to survive at the border. This actually means taking into account how much we also have the capacity to invest in environmental compliance, using support measures, so that production is more environmentally friendly. And the second point of view is how much money will remain in the hands of the farmer, or farmer, after all the compliance and other costs. This balance shouldn't get out of place. And on this point, it can be said that Estonia is probably better than the European average with a number of indicators. If you mark anything else, we also had a meeting with the organic entrepreneurs. They indicated that they considered some of the metrics to be slightly deficient, but in some cases the consistency between the metrics and the targets is clear. And some of the things that seem to be entirely natural to the green world champions are described in the development plan as a great challenge and wise knowledge. When we had reached the final stage of these discussions, of course we also had to take procedural decisions. As a result of these decisions, this development plan arrived in front of you today, ladies and gentlemen. This decision was adopted by consensus in the Committee on Rural Affairs. I know that our good helpers from the Committee on Rural Affairs are currently going through the minutes and are going over your questions. It is precisely the agreement that certain proposals, before the document goes to the government, must receive answers and explanations from the Ministry of Rural Affairs. So everyone who thought along in this Chamber today and wants to send proposals to the Committee on Rural Affairs quickly after the debate can do so. The Minister has already promised to take some of the proposals into account, some to consider and at least to respond to them. That's how I finish my briefing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U67	Thank you. You have questions too. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U68	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your review. This is about the fisheries sector, especially from the point of view that the abundance of fishing rights and the scarcity of resources have always been discussed. The development plan is known to be a document that should feed into the budgetary strategy. It is precisely the basis for the success of coastal fishing that one way or another is to have fish to catch, and the other way round is to have the right to catch it. I understand that this harassment, especially from the catcher's point of view, has always been dealt with in such a way that there are many fishing rights and that the country should actually collect some fishing rights on the market, dispose of them in whatever way. Is this the subject that was discussed? In fact, this is the most burning problem, even in the case of Peipsi, where less resources are allowed to be fished out again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U69	Thank you. When we think about the discussions in the Committee on Rural Affairs on these specific dates, when we did them, this issue was not widely discussed. I think we were talking about Heiki Hepner, who asked if I remember correctly the introduction or definition of individual quotas in this development plan and the possible impact. It is also true that we are currently having 'parallel discussions' in the Committee on Rural Affairs. Today, too, there are representatives of the Ministry of the Environment in the Commission, and we are discussing the same possibility of reference quotas and so-called Olympic fishing, including Peipsi. Whether to take the quota away from someone or whether the state could and could auction, transfer or replay certain volumes in theory, these options exist. But I am saying today that it has not been possible to discuss it rationally in these debates. If we look at today's state of individual quotas and so-called Olympic fishing, there is one important argument that the parties are playing against each other. And it has to do with the fact that the Olympic fishing, on the one hand, seems to be putting pressure on the arms race. The weaponization of victory means that if the launch goes off, everyone will swoop into the water and try to pull out of it as much as possible. This, in turn, forces companies to invest, like, in order to be prepared for it. On the other hand, the added value of the fish, the merit of the fish, can suffer from it. Once these things are over, I think they'll come to it at some point. However, within the framework of this development plan, we did not have a broad debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U70	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In Estonia, as in many other countries, there is a tradition that there is a certain family continuity in agriculture and rural areas. Children take over their parents' work, develop their dreams and their own dreams. The Minister here said that in ten years we will have coherent communities in the country. Now, if you take up this development plan, what message does this sectoral development plan give to those young people who may now hesitate to take over their father's job, whether to stay in the herd in ten years' time? What message does this sectoral development plan give to the younger generation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U72	Thank you, good questioner! On the one hand, the beauty and strength and value of any such document lie in the eyes of the viewer. But one thing is certain: this document wants to create a certain framework that gives an idea of which direction it is possible to move in. And here the problem of youth labour is also marked, although it has not been marked as much as it could be. I also referred to this when discussing the expert assessment of the University of Life Sciences. We have tried to support the promotion of young entrepreneurs, young farmers, for example, under 40 years of age, through these so-called intervention pages and other strategy papers. But what could provide a fortress? On the one hand, it should be assured that food demand in the world will not decrease, but that it will increase. If I want to move somewhere in the sector, I have to consider whether the demand in it is growing or decreasing. In this respect, it could be said that demand is increasing. It is true that, as this demand grows, we will very quickly reach environmental issues, pressure on the environment. And what may not have been dealt with much is the waste of so-called food, the disappearances. If we know that the world's food losses are close to 30%, the idea is that before we make more than tens of percent of new production, we should take advantage of what we have already taken out of the ground as a resource at one point but have not been able to bring to the table. That could be very positive. This trend, which you rightly referred to, is, unfortunately or, fortunately, global. When you meet representatives from different countries from different corners around the world, it is a question of how production can be passed on to offspring, how young people take over management, and this problem is everywhere. As a result, too, agricultural payments are no longer dealt with only in a broad way, so we call them direct payments, that, I do not know, we will allocate EUR 200 per hectare. Grants have become much more social, and they also include measures that, in addition to the capacity and security of business, must also increase social values. We see it in a number of ways. And, of course, reputation: we must always ask whether the reputation of agriculture is good. The greatest contribution to the good of agriculture can be made by the sector itself. It is true that when you look at TV born around the world, young people have sometimes asked why farmers always demand subsidies. The tractors are on the street all the time. Is it good or bad for the reputation? Some say that it can certainly have a negative effect on a young person, but if we look at the statistics, if we look at this simple, much-hated Excel table with revenue-costs, then we actually see that if there were no subsidies there were, of course, investments excluded, then generally profitability would be a minus sign. What really means is that the subsidies that we are applying broadly today provide an opportunity to increase profitability. It is true that this calculation excludes investment grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U73	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U74	Honourable waitress! I'm trying to fit two questions. The first concerns the reduction of CO2 emissions. You were talking about livestock farming, but one of the factors that SEI Tallinn has pointed out in its analysis of increasing climate ambitions is the lurking of soils. I'm looking at this development plan, and there's only one sentence in point 117 to consider and look for options. Was it discussed in the Commission that it could be systematically targeted and supported accordingly? The second question concerns biodiversity and the maintenance of semi-natural land. We had a target of 45000 hectares by 2020, currently around 30,000 hectares, but there is no new indicator in the new development plan. The Chamber of Agriculture has drawn attention to this. It has been answered that it will come into the country's budget strategy programme. I've been watching this program. It's not meant to be there either. What has caused the objective of maintaining semi-natural communities to fall out of this development plan, even though ecologists have drawn attention to this need?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U75	Thank you. I'm gonna keep trying to answer. The honest answer to the first question is that, as the honourable member of the Riigikogu asked his question, we have not dealt with this issue. At the same time, it is clear that when we talk about lime, sometimes I'm wrong, but it still requires a certain degree of coordination, allow it to be done. But, if you remember, a conference was held during the Estonian Presidency, which was linked to soil protection, soil protection and their natural so-called ability to be productive. It's been paid attention, but unfortunately, I don't know what to say about a particular gauge. The second thing is about Estonia at all. There are nearly 20% organic fields in Estonia, and one fact that relates to organic farming is that it does not produce as much as we expect. In general, in my opinion, this is also the direction of environmental protection. We have supported organic farming in order for certain products to be grown mildly, but this production does not always reach the table when it is mild. However, as far as the various associations are concerned, I would rather not dare to confirm this with certainty that, if we look at the associations in Estonia at all, the proportion of different associations compared to other European countries should be better than the average in Estonia. But that does not mean, of course, that our ambitions cannot be even greater. Our figures could be even higher than the averages in Europe than we have agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U76	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U77	Good manager! Good waitress! These general problems are clearly known: the workforce is limited and subsidies are also limited, their distribution is problematic, there are wrong signals, such as pressing the organic pedal, but as you said a moment ago, this production does not have a market. Moreover, Europe's green requirements, which make the situation even more difficult. But here's my question. Now, these 100 pages put together a nice story about everything. But what were the main accents and concerns in the Commission that could be pointed out? And maybe the question is, what wasn't the subject discussed, but what do you think is important?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U78	Thank you. Some of the things that were discussed, I've already marked them. The truth is, as the good questioner pointed out, that the problem of labour is acute. Why we set it up relates to the possibility that the labour force problem could affect the achievement of the objectives of the development plan. This was particularly acute in this year's gardening sector, where seasonal workers were not allowed to help outside. That's why we thought it should be solved. Like I said before, the ministry didn't agree to it. But labour shortages can have an effect. Why am I talking about this? I'm talking about this with an example. In this budget period, we invested taxpayers' money in subsidies to create new opportunities for added value in the gardening sector. This concerned catfish, which concerned investments in storage facilities. And now, if it turns out that the workforce cannot be used on the necessary scale, that means that those who, as a result of this country's signal, set up fields by dozens of hectares will have to be restructured. Is that reasonable? That is why we wanted answers to these questions, but we did not. Now for the financials. When we discussed how this development plan could be implemented, we had serious doubts and we have not received credible or exhaustive answers to it, whether the state can guarantee budget money to implement the development plan together with the European Union's resources. After all, the aim is, as has been pointed out, to raise income, to increase social benefits, to improve the environment, and also to address certain demographic challenges. If we do not have the means to do so, this means that this possible intervention cannot work. The concern is that these same interventions have a very simple effect. On the one hand, we will probably have the opportunity to intervene so that up to 25% of the second pillar may perhaps be raised to the first. Which means that we can increase the area support, but in this case, these community-based grants or small business grants may be much smaller. And we know that the role of small business in the country is many times greater than it may seem statistically. This also applies to volumes. The result may be that people who could be employed in the countryside as small businesses and small families may be reduced. Large production by its very nature will probably manage because it is moving towards pure efficiency, which means that production is sufficiently automated and mechanised and needs less labour. But if we're looking at small farms and family businesses, there's a lot of work going on there. These were the two most basic things that we dealt with. Of course, attention was paid to ensuring that we did not turn over. We have noted, as we have noted today from the questions of Mr Ossinovski and the answers given to him, that there is a suspicion that we do not have enough ambition in the field of the environment. However, the members of the Commission, as well as the Ministry, tried to maintain such a more balanced position, and precisely because they did not hold their breath. This, however, must be acknowledged, and I think that the good questioner agrees with me that consumer demands for environmental protection, including animal health, are increasing. And this may mean that if producers do not go along with this, their ability to realise their production on the market may be reduced in the long term. We also addressed the issue of antibiotics, for example. For example, in Sweden, antibiotic-free meat is available. In society, therefore, the issue has already been raised. People want to know how animals have been kept, how they have been treated. And it is clear that the smaller the herds, the smaller the household, the better the animal health and the longer the period of lactation of cows. The larger the herds and the more intensive the production, the worse the figures are.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U79	Thank you, Honorable waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U80	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I would certainly like to congratulate all the good people and organisations who have been active in drafting this document. If we take now, who has been coordinating this work from the outset, I would certainly like to mention and recognise the role played by the hardworking men Illar Lemetti and Toomas Kevvai in this document. If you look at page 77 of the document you are looking at, we will see how, over time, there have been a great many sectoral development plans, with 2020 ending parts. I even remember, from memory, the goals that were set for 2020, it was all utopia and it hasn't been met. So trying to get this reasonable concentrate from this huge amount of development plans, that's right, and that's the way forward. And it is very important that this document is not just something that goes on the shelf, but that it is further development. Maybe this document is definitely a theory, in a good way. And practice is what will be introduced here next year. Its name is the rural development plan in the past, the strategy plan in the new sense, i.e. how these targets, which we have described here, how these targets will actually be implemented. It's like the other half, and that's the sharpest half we've got. This is the way of life, that the common agricultural policy is properly regulated in Europe and, in fact, in the whole world, so much, especially in the European Union, so that the 27 Member States can work together in the field of agriculture so that the people are fed and competition guaranteed. One of its clear expressions is the financing of the European Union's common agricultural policy. In order for this funding to be sound, we have a duty to adopt the basic documents that we are dealing with here today. Now, speaking of which, there have been a lot of questions about the things that actually go on this practical side, that is, on the side of this strategy plan, whether and what details should have been in it. One detail has certainly been mentioned here, which has become very topical just this year. It is that we want to meet all these objectives, we want to cultivate a million hectares, we want a million tonnes of milk, we want to produce two million tonnes of cereals, everything we want, but the issue of labour has come in very sharply. This labour issue is actually reflected in this document, at least in one place. It is clear that this issue of labour is, if we look at the overall competitiveness of the European Union and the competitiveness of agriculture, an issue which needs to be seen in a sensible way and which we need to be mindful of when we start planning the next spring. Because if we are doing political artificial obstacles that have no justification, there is no healthy justification, for example, then it is clear that we are simply damaging the competitiveness of our area, and that is not good. So, what's more here than that I very much hope that this document will become an aid to all of us. We have just had an overview of the National Audit Office's "The Future of Priority Public Services" here, in which I have also said that it could be the support material that is in the drawer. And I think the same act of the National Audit Office and the same development plan for agriculture and fisheries that we are discussing today, so that they can also be in our drawers... Is there more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U81	Yeah, you can. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U82	So that they can be in our drawers, that if we start discussing the substance of the matter here, along with the strategy plan and the implementation of the whole new period of the European Union, we can review whether or not we are moving in the right direction. I would really like this document to be such a long-used foundation or a basis for planning our next activities, which we do here in our daily work. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U83	Thank you. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U84	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Minister for his hard work. The finish line has come to the bottom of the line. There is currently no leading development strategy for agricultural and fisheries performance areas in the country's budgetary strategy and for regional development and rural development. The objectives and activities of these fields have so far been addressed mainly in the development plan for the area of government of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, as well as in fragmented form in many other development plans for both the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment. The development of 2030 is part of the organisation of the country as a whole, which is one of the prerequisites for the transition to a performance-based budgeting from 2020. The minister pointed out that people are kept in the countryside with a sense of home, community and ownership. It can be said that at the heart of all the aims of the BKA is a man living in the countryside. The preliminary assessment of the impacts of PKA 2030 has also been carried out by the research team of the Estonian University of Life Sciences. The Strategic Environmental Assessment was carried out by the GmbH Hendrikson & Ko. The project was carried out by Ernst & Young's study group. As a result of the work of the various working groups, the vision of the development plan was formulated. Estonian food is appreciated and it is good to live in the country. This principle is extremely important to our society as a whole, to our country as a whole. The entire development plan provides direction for subsequent development, operational programmes and budgeting. A long and comprehensive table of amendments has been drawn up from various proposals. Many proposals have been taken into account, some have been partially taken into account, some have not been taken into account. With regard to COVID-19, the topic of labour was raised, which was specified in the Põka. More detailed labour-related measures are addressed at the level of different programmes across sectors, types of enterprises, regions. Labour force, education, knowledge transfer and many other important issues will be reviewed in the mid-term evaluation of PKA 2030 2023, which will make it possible to correct the actions needed to achieve the objectives. The challenges of environmental protection in agriculture and fisheries have been taken into account in the context of the European Green Agreement. The development plan has sought a balance between sustainable development objectives, taking into account the social and economic objectives of agricultural, fisheries and rural policies alongside environmental protection. A balance between environmental and socio-economic aspects is important. More than 500 experts from around 140 organisations have participated in the development plan. It can therefore be concluded that the PKA is a cooperative agreement between the parties, which could only be amended on the basis of very clear evidence-based arguments. The process has also been a long period of preparation, with a large number of experts contributing to it. There are no absolute truths, but I dare to confirm that this is a basic document on which the various activities needed to develop agriculture, rural development and fisheries can be planned. The approval of the development plan is not the end of the work, but the beginning of the work of large implementation, where it is extremely important to ensure the resources necessary to implement the development plan, where the Riigikogu has a strong word to say in the budgetary process. I invite members of the Riigikogu to support the adoption of Põka 2030! The new period is just under the door and we don't have much time to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U85	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U86	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank all these people and organisations, the Ministry, also these various ministers, because this development plan was drawn up during four or five ministers, whose contribution has finally reached this very important document here today on the table of members of the Riigikogu. And I certainly hope that this will also be approved, because the development plan will serve as a basis for one important sector so that this sector can function successfully and with a sense of perspective. For my part, I can confirm and claim that agriculture is one of the most important areas in Estonia. First of all, it is food security and people's safety that they will be able to enjoy Estonian food on their food table in the future. And I can say that, economically, agriculture has a big perspective. Looking at how the climate changes around us, we are taking even this year, even though we have a coronal apandemia, for example in September of this year, when exports of the economy exceeded imports for the first time in ten years, agriculture also played a major role: more than 20% of this was agriculture's contribution. And it's not de minimis at all. To talk about agriculture as an internal supply of food for people in Estonia alone, I find it short-sighted. We also need to think further, we have great potential to export our products. We'll take the size of the countries, take the Netherlands or Denmark. The Netherlands, for example, is the second largest exporter of food products in the world. Here we have a huge opportunity. Do we have to keep farmland just so we can mow it from time to time and get money from it, or can we grow animals on farmland there, and so on? Here we still have huge opportunities. The climate on the one hand and our historical tradition, awareness, high level of science, etc. on the other hand give us a great opportunity. Of course, we must ensure that our farmers are competitive. And when it comes to competitiveness, it is often only about money. During different periods, farmers have received either full support, have not received at all or have received only half of the aid, but this does not provide any certainty for farmers in any way. There is little mention that competitiveness is also a labour force. If we don't have people in the field or in the farms, there's nothing we can do about it. Our strawberry growers also offered the exact same price this year as Finnish strawberry growers when harvesting eggs from up to EUR per kilogram. But these people just don't exist in the field, because things have changed since then. And here we can't close our eyes, but we don't want anyone coming from outside to work for us. At the same time, we lose all production, export capacity, etc., and then we buy it in. Where, then, should the Estonian state win from this? It is certainly very important that this development plan, which will be adopted, is not just a matter of discussion. It must also reach the state budget. If the state budget is to be drawn up and planned, then the points of the development plan must also reach those budget discussions and financial figures, otherwise this is all the empty work that these many people have done over the years. So thank you to all those who contributed to this! I am convinced that there is no border between the opposition and the coalition here in the Riigikogu Hall today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U87	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U88	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Dear Members of the Commission and all the participants who have started the process of drawing up this development plan! As Chairman of the National Defence Committee, of course, I cannot fail to speak about food security. When the Minister summed up the subject that the pandemic did not actually directly affect the content of this development plan, then perhaps in fact it should have been in the context of food security. Indeed, different processes have taken place, even in the form of the creation of an agency, even in the context of the fact that this food does not actually have to be available on the counter, but must be booked with the producer as some sort of raw material. And actually, these are very, very important strategic issues that should give much more talk in the context of a broad, broad, national defence approach than we have so far offered them the stage. Because it is, once again, strategic and from the food supply produced here in Estonia, the sustainable development and independence of the Estonian state actually begins. Another very important issue that directly interacts with this development plan is certainly that the state cannot leave anyone behind anywhere in rural areas. And it does indeed relate to the report of the National Audit Office, which essentially pointed out that it is good to live in Harjumaa and Tartu County. Unfortunately, the rest of Estonia is not in such a good position and this is a matter of the principle of sharing public money. At the same time, in my opinion, and I also think that, in the opinion of many others, we cannot talk about successful rural development if a country leaves certain regions behind. The choices are still made on the basis of successes, not failures, and people also choose their place of residence, their way of life and their future, based on developments in the region. And third. I think it is also a very important debate, just as we are targeting coastal fishing. Fishermen have been talking for a long time about Estonia's fisheries. In particular, in this key, we know that fish resources, the recovery of fish stocks, are not the best. Overfishing has taken place at certain times. It is also very sad, in fact, that it seems that Peipsi, too, has had this overfishing again, that we have not learned from previous times. This is a direct blow to the entire fisheries sector, because the fishing rights granted by the state itself have, in fact, shaped this market situation and the choice of profession. If we see that the solution is only that we are always going to restrict this fishing right through the quota, then I think we are paradoxically in such a dual situation that with one hand we give the right to catch... Excuse me, but if we look at the bay of Pärnu and look at these fishing rights, all of which have been issued, there is not much room left for swimming in Pärnu Bay. These fishing rights are clearly too many. Now it is basically a question of how the country takes back certain fishing rights in order to ensure the sustainable development of fisheries, to ensure the recovery of fish stocks. I do not think we live in a country where it is possible to simply collect them in a decision-making manner. It really does have a price, it is an investment, and, in fact, paradoxically, we are dealing with this debate in this Chamber, which is the right fisherman. Is it the right fisherman who does not rush to fish immediately while fishing, but looks at the market situation? Or is it the right fisherman who actually owns the right to fish and does not go fishing, but transfers it to someone else? These are important points of debate and I would like this development document not to remain in the drawer, but to continue these discussions. Because otherwise, it is not actually possible to make important decisions and development developments in this area. Thank you, and strength for all!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U89	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U90	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Indeed, the "Agricultural and Fisheries Development Plan 2030" is an important document. This area is important for Estonia, and it could be said that it is very important, both in economic terms and actually from the point of view of regional development. It is quite appropriate to thank everyone who has contributed to this document. This number has been impressive and this period has been quite long. I will stop at some aspects that perhaps deserve to be emphasised or highlighted more. Indeed, food security and a regionally more evenly developed country are an important security foundation for the country. That, in my opinion, is one of the axes in this development plan. If there was a debate here on how people are, it is indeed extremely important that we planned the next steps in the development plan in such a way that economic, social and environmental aspects are taken into account as a whole. This is actually the way to ensure the well-being of the rural people and the positive development of the whole country and a uniform regional development. Every day we feel that environmental aspects, environmental issues, have become increasingly important. And indeed, in this development plan too, they are discussed in quite a number of views, ranging from the abundance of farmland and pollinators, the share of high natural value agricultural land or landscape diversity. But perhaps the use of fertilisers, pesticides and antibiotics would deserve extra attention. True, they have also been pointed out here, and we know that everything is perhaps not ideal here, but if we compare ourselves with other European countries, we will see that the challenges that are facing the use of fertilisers are much lower than those of pesticides or, in particular, antibiotics. So I think it is certainly worth paying attention to this part of the development plan. From here on, of course, it is also extremely important to bring new and safer plant protection products to the market and to promote them in every way. And while we are talking about plant protection products, we cannot ignore organic farming, where these [things] mentioned above are excluded. In Estonia, organic farming is relatively good, but the bottleneck is actually how to earn this organic raw material and bring it to the table. Here we have quite a few steps to take. Today we know there is organic grain, but we are not prepared to pay much for it. The environmental component is certainly a circular economy to solve environmental problems, to make more efficient use of resources, and... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U91	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U92	... to minimise the use of non-renewable resources. If we look at food safety issues, it is completely unthinkable and impractical that we do not pay attention to it if we want to increase food production as well. Of course, one of the keywords here is the development of laboratory capabilities from a number of points. What I would like to pay attention to in a positive respect These activities, this area is extremely important for our agriculture and fisheries, so that we remain in competition so that this area remains in competition with other sectors, but also that the Estonian state remains in competition with other countries. In the area of fisheries, of course, the size of fish stocks is a restrictive resource. But the more important it would actually be to use this resource with a smart and high added value. And, of course, where we can also grow this resource, there is, in fact, greater activity in aquaculture. I guess these dilemmas are in this development plan, too. I asked myself that we want an increase in the area of agricultural land, we want an increase in the area of forest land, we want an increase in the surface area of swamps, and now I do not have any specific development plans in mind, but the general expectations of society, but the area of Estonia is one. Somewhere we have to make the choices we choose and we don't choose. And maybe in the end. Linking the CAP funding scheme to the development plan is not less important than considering the labour force to ensure the supply of labour. To ensure that these activities are specifically linked to this financing and development plan, this is a key issue. Only then can the targets actually set be achieved. A great deal of work has been done and, indeed, I hope that this document, which has now been figuratively captured, will help us better in the field of agriculture and fisheries and will also lead to a more stable development in the life and regional livelihood of our rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U93	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U94	Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U95	Eight minutes to Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U96	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Agriculture is a rather strange subject to me, even though my wife is a small farmer. Consequently, during this debate, I will highlight some aspects as a member of the Committee on the Environment concerning agriculture and environmental protection as a whole. I agree with the previous speakers that this is a very thoroughly prepared plan, and indeed in the area of environmental protection, the key keywords are all noted. It is difficult even to find an environmental theme that is not mentioned as a topic. However, there certainly are places where the main focus of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, or the development of the rural economy, appears to be perhaps a little more thought-out and prioritised than some other areas, which are undoubtedly at least as important. In the context of this debate, I would certainly immediately reject the violent confrontation that is created between the rural economy and environmental protection. I don't think they're the opposite. There is no doubt that environmental improvement measures can be implemented poorly, resulting in economic difficulties for rural enterprises, but this does not have to be the case, it is possible to reasonably do both, i.e. protect the environment and develop agriculture. But now more specifically. Firstly, climate issues. Estonia has made international commitments, starting with the Paris climate agreement and ending with joint agreements between the European Union and by 2030 in the area of "shared responsibility," which includes 30% of our greenhouse gases in Estonia, which we must reduce by 13% compared to 2005. This is a commitment already made. The area of this shared commitment also includes agriculture, accounting for about 25% of the area of shared responsibility. What's the problem? The country has still not agreed on how this objective will be achieved. Another big piece that there is in addition to agriculture is transport. Look at the transport development plan up to 2030, and there will be emissions rising, we will look at the agricultural development plan, here okay, not rising, not falling, but in any way a 13% reduction should come. So how does it come? No one really knows. This is where both development plans must jointly aim for this to be achieved by 13%. This is a commitment that we have already made. If we do not achieve this, we will need to buy a quota for this area, which will be much more expensive than the quota for the emissions trading system, which we are more accustomed to. In this context, if we take an analysis of reducing climate ambition, which is presented as one of the themes is really the lurking of soils. I am not a specialist in the field, once again overemphasising, but if you look at this analysis, there is a certain action plan in this context and they say that it should start in essence in this decade if we want to achieve any meaningful results by 2050. It is true that in other parts, reducing emissions in agriculture is difficult to achieve, since animal production does indeed have some natural greenhouse gas emissions that are beautifully large, especially methane emissions. So much for the climate. I think it would need a much bigger accent in this development plan. The role of agriculture cannot be overstated in this context, but it cannot be underestimated, so others are taking advantage of the reduction in this area. The other half of life's wealth. In this context, no doubt, compared to the time when this development plan began to be developed, a number of strategic documents from the European Union have been published: biodiversity strategy, farm-to-plate strategy, both set objectives, ambitious goals. Reducing the use of fertilisers has a beautifully low ambition, and also at European Union level, we are actually fighting against these agreements on the reduction of fertilisers being reached. The share of organic arable land in [meaning] was today discussed here in a beautiful letter in the context of the European Union, a little over 20%. But the same biodiversity strategy envisages an increase in the share of organic land to 25%. It could be our goal, and I personally think that ambition could be higher. This probably means that organic farming must be supported in some other way, maybe further, I don't know what to say, is not a specialist, once again, but basically to aim for us to move more and more in this direction, in my opinion, to make every sense. Estonia could take the lead here, not make the minimum. Now these same fertilisers, plant protection products, for their use, yes, can be said to be more used elsewhere in Europe in many countries. They use more, but there's a lot worse biodiversity than we do. We're sick too, and they're worse. I think that this is not a reason to rest on laurels, in fact more can be achieved and should be done. Let's get the same birds. The number of farm birds has fallen by 50% since 1990. Let's take the next decade, and actually we'll see that if we're doing very well, maybe the downward trend could slow down. Perhaps it is time, however, to move in the opposite direction and start restoring nature in the decade ahead of us. Of course, this is directly linked to reductions in fertilisers as well as to the percentage of organic farming. A previous speaker, Mrs Aart, said that the focus of this [development plan] is on a man living in the countryside. It is very good when a person living in the countryside is at the heart of the development plan. But the people living in the countryside are also undoubtedly affected by the fact that 20% of the samples of Estonian groundwater have been contaminated water. Can you imagine? In ten years, we think we could move so much better that this number would be less than 10%. But we think it's okay if 10% of the samples are fertilizer-contaminated water, mostly in rural areas. I don't think so. In fact, ambition could be higher. We could want it to be safe to drink groundwater anywhere in Estonia. Once again, 50% of the nitrogen emissions that reach the water bodies are of agricultural origin. The role of agriculture is undoubtedly very great here. Or we'll take the number of residues of plant protection products in the soil, we'll have 4.7 per soil sample, and that's a lot. But we're satisfied that the future will be the same way to stay under 5. If it doesn't get any worse, it's okay. These are certainly the places where there could be more of an increase in ambition, at least a social debate on this subject. And now for the end. I hope that from today's debate the Ministry will also make further adjustments to this plan, hopefully in the environmental field too, some of the ambitions for raising will be re-examined. But what is undoubtedly very important is what really happens to this strategy plan for the common agricultural policy. How to get so far away from the story that action, as Mr Padar said, is extremely important. For example, farm measures tend to fall out one by one when they negotiate. So this is certainly a place where, colleagues, we must pay attention to ensuring that environmental protection, as well as other objectives, is covered by real funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U97	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable colleagues! It is quite nice, in itself, that the hall has started and the debate has stretched longer than it was initially expected when we entered the hall. But maybe I'd like to make some marks in a slightly more relaxed form, because a report was made earlier on the basis of what took place in the Commission. I'd like to start a good speech with a previous speaker on the tail. Before deciding on this organic land, it should be set as a gauge, we should discuss whether we want to increase the surface area of the land so that the environment is more spared, which is such a natural choice. But the second question is, how much do we want on the surface that gets to the table? Thought should certainly be done before setting such metrics. Although we have increased consumption of organic products and more than in previous years, this is still very low. When a good colleague, Liina Kersna, spoke about South Estonia and how they plan to take organic food to schools, I would ask why there should not be a national programme so that organic food is in school. That's what the Ministry should actually be able to do nationwide. Not that we're banging it in one corner of Estonia, where there are just some good and enterprising people. This is another way for smaller entrepreneurs, niche entrepreneurs, to achieve something where they do not have to move away from the country. I generally believe that both the wolf and the rabbit are necessary in nature. And at the same time, I agree with Evgen in this sense that we do not have to contrast. We do not have to contrast organic and non-organic production, organic land and non-organic land, but we need to find a reasonable balance in order for society to make the various benefits needed from there so that we can live normally on this land. One thing that maybe little was touched is the new business model of agriculture. I don't know if any of you watched the broadcast, when it was the choice of the farmer of the year, I think the young host of the Forest Brother Farm asked very nicely: whether and how much water we need that cows milk. He meant that, in terms of the high productivity of our flocks, the milk structure had become quite this way and asked whether future markets needed such milk. Such discussions, and open and bold discussions in this area, would really like more from the same people who are taking care of this sector today. Because it is certain that if we produce nearly twice as much milk ourselves as we can consume, then it is clear that we have to export. Now the question is how can we achieve this greatest added value from this export? And here we come to the following point (I think the Minister for Rural Affairs agrees with me): if we have invested quite properly in farms in previous periods, then further investments are needed in the food industry sector in order to be more exportable, efficient and there is certainly a key word for joint action. We have to admit, we are small enough as a market. But if we're smart enough, we can sell this food to the rest of the world. But there is certainly a problem here with skill and information in the broader sense, which concerns marketing, market employment, and here certainly the Ministry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can be a good support. These joint action numbers are still lower and would like these joint action numbers to become clearly better within the framework of this development plan. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U99	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U100	The key is, in fact, that we consider it important that our businesses, and especially small businesses, are also able to negotiate with trade and partners. And it's actually gonna take some strength. But there's one assumption. This actually means that the tens or hundreds of undertakings that are going to be concentrated must be able to agree among themselves on common standards, quality requirements, and this direction definitely needs to be continued in order to achieve this competitiveness. Because we're definitely more vulnerable when we're alone than we are together. I very much hope that out of this 1% R &amp; D work, which also seems to be coming into the Ministry's budget, even though we have not yet seen it exactly, more money will also be available for applied research in the rural area. Because, certainly, if we look objectively at the activities of the Ministry of Education and Research today as regards possible funding in this regard, then I do not believe that rural life has certainly been a priority for the Ministry of Education and Research. The Ministry of Rural Affairs has a 100% chance of prioritising it, and smart choices need to be found there. It is possible to achieve what we have all discussed. But without any agreement, we see that this labour issue is a problem. Honourable coalition ambassadors! Honourable coalition! Don't wait for the year 2023 to do any research on the workforce. The problem of seasonal workers and this workforce, which we need in agriculture seasonally and in the short term, can be solved by amendments to the law, not by restrictions. And this is an important message for the sector so that they can realise these dreams and their own personal strategy plans to be a successful entrepreneur. And there's no need to wait here for this study. This study can and must be done, and let's see what the future can bring, but it doesn't make sense to wait any longer here, but it has to be done. And food security. I don't think there should be any goats in here. We know today that a few weeks ago we discussed the provision of crisis aid of EUR 12 million to the rural sector, then, actually, from a national defence point of view, we could make a few million more cans that taste for our soldiers, defence allies and people who need help. And part of the production will be realised and added value granted, and everyone will benefit without simply giving more money to this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U101	Honourable colleagues! Before I give the floor to Peeter Ernits, I would put to the vote the request made by the Isamaa Group to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let's get ready for this vote. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Isamaa Group to extend today's sitting of 24 November 2020 until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U102	47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal has been accepted, the sitting will continue until 14 p.m. Now, please, Peter Ernits, call from the remote!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U103	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, the debate has been surprisingly active. The problems that the country has, after all, have been clear a long time ago. The population is low, movement takes place from land to city, agricultural subsidies are poor compared to other countries where we compete, it is problematic to share them in order to politely say big money, but how they go. The National Audit Office has not yet been seriously audited. Signals are sometimes wrong. We have a lot of organic space, but doing organic production now gives the wrong signal because there are no people who can consume it, of course, and so on. But I'd like to talk to you about a few things. On the one hand, yes, I congratulate the doers, the long and beautiful. These development plans are coming up like Vändra's lumberboards. And there's an explanation everywhere that they're connected, be it with the "Estonia 2035" etc., etc. But when you actually start looking, it's been a long time, but this connection is more bureaucratic. And now, if you look at these indices or the metrics that you're looking at, well, I brought out a few things. Recently, the National Audit Office came out with such a very harsh assessment that there are two Estonias, the first and the second Estonia: Harjumaa, Tallinn and Tartumaa belong to the first, and the rest of the counties of Saaremaa, Virumaa and Mägi-Eesti, etc. These problems, in particular, which the development plan for agriculture and fisheries deals with, concern Estonia very much with the other Estonia, where the use of draconical measures is required, where there are not enough teachers, doctors, rescuers, policemen, etc., to name a few areas, and where there is not enough labour. But what am I reading? The surveyors. The share of employees aged 21 to 40 will remain at exactly the same level of 27,76% over 10 years. Who knows a little bit of math, when someone's offering out numbers like this, it's bullshit. That is not statistically possible, and if you propose it, it is pure bureaucratic crap. So exactly 10 years? And besides, the metric is that the meter doesn't change, even the decimal point of 0.76 will remain valid. Hey, guys, that's not how it works! Looking at who will then be working in rural areas, 20 to 64-year-olds, employment. Employment is rising by 3.6%. Okay. Then let's see, relative poverty of 26.5%, after 10 years 23.9%. Well, 290 people a year then under this plan will be ripped out of relative poverty. The number of young drivers, up to 40 years old, is expected to increase by 1%, currently 16%, then up to 17%. But if you look at the other side, there's a lot of these meters. The number of plant protection products per hectare is exactly the same, one kilo. 1.11 kilos today and 10 years from now. Well, again I deeply doubt how such numbers. They're not serious. Or 2.5 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions, 10 years from now, exactly the same. Ammonia emissions are essentially the same in 10 years. Can I have a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U104	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U105	To which Mr Ossinovski drew attention, as a birdman, to the index of agricultural birds, I know that the fields will remain quieter and quieter. It's not only the forests that keep it down, it's the fields. Or the bumblebees' Shannon index, well, very interesting. I don't know how much farmers know about this bumblebee Shannon index. Well, frankly, there is nothing rosy, ambition is very, very modest, if you say politely. So, actually, on the one hand, it is great that another such document has been adopted, but it seems to me that it is largely bureaucratic. And I was not talking about employment here when we have clearly given the wrong signals for agricultural production. If the 2 500 foreign servants currently needed by the Chamber of Commerce, and of which 2 000 are for the strawberry sector, then to be honest and to know what the chances of obtaining such a labour force are, it must be acknowledged, overdimensioned, a false signal has been given. Moreover, the strawberry sector is not vital; it cannot be compared to dairy farming, where there is a need for foreigners of up to 500. So in fact, you should look calmly at all these things and try to essentially [act]. And what we can't describe here is how these development plans actually link with other development plans. Because the message of the National Audit Office was very harsh, and to that end we should look at the situation in all the rural areas that we actually have in the country, what opportunities there are in the country. As stated in the proposals of the Ministry of Culture [was] not taken into account here, where they said the same thing as I was saying, that, in fact, this development plan should also mention how these communities in the country will actually be strengthened in a situation where cities will drain the land. That's all we're talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U106	Evgeny Ossinovski wants to say something about the place. Two minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U107	Reception for both Mr Ernitsa and Mr Kruus. I am also very pleased that there is a lively debate between Members on this important issue. Starting with Mr Ernitsa: I very much agree that both the Shannon index and the agricultural index have very little ambition. But this development plan, according to the State Budget Act, we are not adopting it here today, but the Government of the Republic is introducing it to us at the moment. After hearing these comments, it moves to the Government of the Republic for approval. I very much call for Mr Ernitsa to influence the Minister for Rural Affairs, who is part of his party, to really increase ambition here. I think that would be very relevant and grateful. Mr Kruuse rightly said that when setting the percentage of organic fields, increasing the share, it must be considered and targeted first. But organic farming is not a new thing in itself that was invented the day before yesterday. These objectives are already set out in the European Union's "Agricultural plate" and biodiversity strategy. There's been time to figure out why we're doing this. And undoubtedly, if we could get this ambition into the development plan, it would certainly speed up targeting and thinking on this issue also in the Ministry of Rural Affairs. So I don't see any contradiction here. And Mr. Kruuse said it would be very good if organic food was offered in schools all over the world so that there could be such a program. Last Wednesday, Amendment 5 by the Social Democrats had been tabled by the state budget honor, which would exactly have created it. It was supported by five members of the Reform Party, but unfortunately Mr Kruus did not. Sure, I think we could work together to get organic food at school.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U108	So, Urmas Kruuse, another [reception]. Since the name was mentioned, it is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U109	I'll try not to mention the name again. I just wanted to make it clear that there is an issue with this organic objective. If we are so much ahead of the European average with our organic land, and if Europe comes along with all this, then the possibilities of realising our production may not be able to catch up at all. That is why I said that we should first analyse how much we are able to realise the output and whether we only want to meet the environmental objective. But the state budget procedure is that there are proposals that have the hope of going through, and there are proposals that have no hope of going through. I clearly referred to this ability that those in power today would be able to do so if they wanted to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U110	So, Peter Ernits, speaking from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U111	Thank you. My name was mentioned, but unlike my colleagues, I am not taking this opportunity to start talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U112	Thank you to all speakers. Speeches, speeches are over. The Riigikogu will not take a decision on this issue and this item will be closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U113	We will begin the discussion of the fourth item, which is the draft law amending the Food Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, with number 228. Let's start reading it first and waitress here, Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U114	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Allow me to present the draft law amending the Food Act drawn up by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The amendment of the Food Law aims to reduce the administrative burden on food business operators when they start their business activities and to create a more level playing field compared to operators in other countries. The law has been developed taking into account the principles, responsibilities and opportunities of the European Union's hygiene regulation to ensure a high level of protection of human health and food safety. The most important changes are as follows: In certain areas, the national authorisation requirement for food operations is replaced by a notification obligation. The Act replaces the licence obligation with a notification obligation, for example in the following areas: retail trade and catering, production of non-animal food (confectionary, bakery, beverage industry), handling of primary non-animal products. The obligation of the operator to comply with food safety and hygiene requirements shall not be changed when the obligation of authorisation is replaced by a notification obligation. The proposed change does not entail additional activities or additional costs for active operators. The start-up operator may start operations immediately after fulfilling the notification obligation. The Act complements the mandate of the Minister responsible for the sector to establish adapted hygiene requirements for small-scale businesses, including slaughterhouses, construction, design and equipment. Defines the operators who may apply the customized hygiene requirements for the construction, design and handling of small-scale enterprises. In the case of food business operators, a link shall be made with the definition of micro-enterprises and, in the case of small slaughterhouses, a maximum number of livestock units of up to 1000 livestock units slaughtered per year shall be established. The mandate given to the Minister responsible for the sector to lay down hygiene requirements for the handling of foodstuffs of animal origin in retail establishments is also enhanced. A food business operator handling food of animal origin in a retail business and the main place of handling used for human consumption may apply hygiene requirements for the handling of foodstuffs of animal origin in a retail establishment where the food of animal origin is supplied to another retail establishment and the activity is marginal, limited and local. The operator of the processing site used primarily for housing may apply hygiene requirements for the handling of foodstuffs of animal origin at a retail establishment, provided that the taxable turnover relating to the handling of the food does not exceed EUR 40000 per calendar year. In addition to the above issues, the amendment to the Act clarifies the list of documents to be submitted when applying for an authorisation and repeals the powers of ministerial regulations regarding the procedure for determining the durability and durability tests. The law is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U115	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I understand that this draft law is very much awaited, the discussions on this issue have already taken place since 2014. If I have understood correctly, the coordination process for this draft has already ended in August last year, and it should apply from the new year, as you said. My question is why it's been so long. In the meantime, what was done with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U117	Thank you. While amendments to the Food Act have been discussed since 2014, in the meantime, in the context of the change in the composition of the Riigikogu, these drafts came back and now, through the European Commission, some additional improvements came in. We have been keeping an eye on each other all along, and with the return of this measure, we have been able to add a little bit of things about small slaughterhouses, different treatments. This is very important, indeed, this law amending the food law. And I'm glad I can present it to you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U118	Liina Kersna, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U119	Thank you. But how do you assess: Has this been a reasonable time and a time for preparation? We are here today at the first reading and this should enter into force as of 1 January. How do you assess the practice of handling this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U120	Thank you. As far as tactics are concerned, I am still a bit ignorant, but I think that by the ministry, after a year of cooperation with the Rural Affairs Committee and the Government of the Republic bringing this law on the amendment of the Food Law into the Riigikogu in the spring, we had quite successfully and successfully progressed and reached a consensus on the law's progress. And I hope that the members of the Riigikogu will be able to enforce the Act on 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U121	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U122	Thank you. Dear Minister, A drop by drop over the years has been trying to reduce this bureaucracy. I would just like to know what else is going to be done with regard to the level of entrepreneurship and bureaucracy, so that businesses can be more sensible and better delivered.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U123	Well, I believe that, in cooperation with everyone, this law is a very good first step towards improving administrative capacity, reducing administrative burdens for producers and speeding up business. But in terms of the new period, all the expected requests from the PRIA, we are trying to make it as easy and simple as possible for the manufacturer by reducing the administrative burden. For all potential entrepreneurs, applicants, it is important to have access to various grants and services provided by the state with as little red tape as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U124	Thank you very much. No further questions, Minister, for you. I ask Ivari Padari, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed this draft on 16 November. And the Minister, as he explained in his previous speech, said more broadly, what is the point of this draft. Overall, this is a reduction in administrative burden and an increase in opportunities for a real producer, a reprocessor. And also the fact that the authorisation obligation becomes a notification obligation. Our further debate went on in a key where I asked a question on the coordination round. In the case of the coordination circle, the comments were sent only by the Chamber of Commerce for Agriculture and the other institutions involved in the field had not sent their comments. What was the point of the Chamber of Agriculture's comments? They were very intelligent in order to ensure that, in any case in this new situation, there would be no unequal competition between different companies. In other words, it's like someone has more supervisory burden, someone less. In fact, there is no idea. In any case, monitoring will remain and it is important to ensure food safety, but a certain bureaucratic process will certainly be made easier. I've also taken an interest in the livestock unit of pigs. So in the case of small slaughterhouses, this new regulation means that such simplifications have taken place in those small slaughterhouses where up to 1000 livestock units are slaughtered per year. And who knows this thing, in the case of one livestock unit, the cattle is taken, and the pig is 0.2 livestock units. Then we're talking about 5,000. We were also interested in the number of companies or the number of interested people we talk about when we are discussing this law. Who wants to know these numbers, the total number of food business operators is 16432, the number of food business operators of animal origin is 532, and there are currently 52 authorised slaughterhouses, of which up to 1000 livestock units are killed by 35 slaughterhouses, i.e. 67%. Perhaps when we are talking about slaughterhouses, this concerns somewhere 67% of the slaughterhouses authorised in Estonia. Tarmo Tamm stated that the draft would increase the responsibility of food business operators. Arvo Aller stated that the manufacturer and the operator are responsible for compliance, that the obligation to notify is subject to informed consent and an obligation to deal with food production. Ivari Padar was interested in reducing the administrative burden. Arvo Aller replied that the administrative burden for the producer would be reduced, but that there was no change in monitoring. Tarmo Tamm noted that the deadline for amendments to the draft is 10 working days according to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. It was also decided to propose that 228 drafts be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 November 2020. The decision was consensual. Propose the completion of the first reading of draft 228, and the decision was consensual. That concludes our debate. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U126	Thank you. Peter Ernits, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U127	Good manager, good waitress! I'm not gonna ask you how many pigs there are. Here is such a positive innovation when it comes to cutting red tape that no one needs to determine the high boss what food safety criteria are. But there's an explanation that, for example, if you put salt a little bit more or a little less on the finger, all these conditions will change very quickly. But if they are not put in place earlier, how do I read the activities of the various food producers, here we have to order studies and whatever and cooperates with each other will look like if, for example, when you hang salt alone, the whole picture becomes less or more easily, not to mention all other substances?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U128	Thank you for your question. To be honest, this was not discussed in the Commission. I was just starting to see where the cookbook is. But in this respect, they are, after all, the general rules on food safety, as they have been said. The rules that food must comply with do not change. Perhaps food safety as such will be reduced by bureaucracy. Yes, I understand that somewhere at ministerial sub-acts level, there are also expected to be those rates that may affect some aspect of food safety. But we did not really discuss it at this level in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U129	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U130	I did not intend to ask, but since the honourable colleague from the Committee on Rural Affairs has probably not read it thoroughly, I would point out that these 'cookbook' things are on pages 6 and 7 for quite a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U131	Yes, they really do exist in relation to the Minister's regulation and other basic acts that will be adopted, but we did not really discuss this detail in the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U132	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There is no wish to participate in the negotiations. We have a proposal from the lead committee to conclude the first reading of draft 228. The first reading is closed and the deadline for submitting amendments is 8 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U133	We will consider the fifth item on the agenda: Draft Act 227 on the Amendment to the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Let's start with the first reading of this, and I'd like to ask the Minister of Rural Affairs, Arvo Aller, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U134	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The draft Act amending the Act implementing the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union is being read in order to amend the current implementation of support for the beekeeping sector and to supplement the list of measures for the Estonian rural development plan, which does not provide for an evaluation of the application for aid. As one of the measures of the common agricultural policy organisation of the European Union, the Member State has been given the opportunity to support the apiculture sector through its national apiculture programme. This programme aims to improve the production and marketing of apiculture products and is co-financed by the budget of the European Union. For the purpose of the effective implementation of support from the apiculture sector, the draft shall specify the content of the activity report to be prepared for the apiculture year. Compared to the current rule, the activity report for the apiculture year shall include, in addition to the description of the activities, the results of the apiculture programme. The draft also specifies the underlying documents for the eligible costs for the support in the beekeeping sector. The draft provides that the eligible costs for the implementation of the apiculture programme will be reimbursed through the e-PRIA service on the basis of a request for payment and expenditure documents submitted to the PRIA. Compared to the current rule, the annual activity report approved by the evaluation committee no longer serves as the basis for the reimbursement of eligible costs. The draft also complements the provision concerning the measures of the Estonian rural development plan. There are two additional measures for which no further evaluation of aid applications is required. The accompanying measures are risk management instruments and, as a result of the fact that the proposals will not have to be evaluated and ranked in the future, they can be kept open throughout the year. As a result of this change, farmers can start restoring their agricultural production potential earlier, or secure animals, plants and crops as needed, rather than wait for the call for applications to open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U135	Thank you very much. You have questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U136	Thank you. Dear Minister, This apiculture programme is undoubtedly very important that it finally reaches this point for several years now. Now, the welfare of bees is undoubtedly also linked to the use of plant protection products. In this context, organic farming is certainly one of the important things that contributes systematically, over time, to improving the welfare of bees in general, even without further programmes. It has now become apparent that the Ministry of Rural Affairs has completed the support scheme for new organic farmers this year. We have discussed this with you once in the Committee on the Environment, your official has sent an explanation. But you could explain the signal that, for example, some types of benefits will continue this year to receive new ones, but organic farming ones will be pushed to the next few years. What is the basis for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U137	Thank you for your question. The objectives of the apiculture programme are met not only by organic activities but also by all other environmentally friendly and environmentally friendly management activities. After all, the rural development plan has a separate bee harvesting area programme and a scheme to support bee harvesting areas. In the first years, the number of applicants was relatively low, but their popularity is increasing year by year. The scheme of bee harvesting areas is part of the increase in the index of bees, the farm birds. In the Ministry of Rural Affairs, organic farmers [no support scheme] are not given new lands, but new applicants were not taken over this year, new areas were also eligible for green management support. In the coming years, all of them will continue, and new countries will be allowed to grow. And why we didn't take on any new commitments, the reason why they couldn't be added, was because there was a break year, the use of the money for the new period, it didn't seem reasonable to push these five-year commitments too far, in the middle of the new period. Rather go ahead at the beginning of the new period with new requirements and new fresh European Union money and co-financing, so that commitments can continue for five years. Next year, we can take on new lands as a one-year commitment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U138	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! The question that has occasionally arisen in the press has been that some farmers have misused plant protection products. I know that both sides have sat together for a long time and planned good cooperation. Can you tell me what the state of these things is now, and has it gotten any better?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U140	Yes, indeed, there have been cases in previous years where plant protection products have been misused. Beekeepers' and farmers' organisations have sat around the table and this has also led to an agreement. Good crop management practices have been developed, according to which beekeepers are informed, and beekeepers inform where their bee family is. Such open communication and cooperation has led to no misuse of plant protection products being detected this year. There are notifications, there have been visits, but then it has been linked to some other subject, i.e. it was not the use of plant protection products.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U141	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U142	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! For several years, different organisations of Estonian beekeepers have wanted a microbiological process to be used to determine the origin of honey, which is not cost-intensive, but Estonia has not joined it. Can you tell us if this draft refers to it so that we can better know what Estonian honey is and what Chinese honey is?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U143	Thank you. We have certainly set ourselves the goal of getting out of honey's origin so that we can finally appreciate it. It is generally linked to food counterfeiting and food fraud. One part is beekeepers, and the honey's origin is there in the work plan. We have now started with strawberry footprints, we have taken the first samples, and we have also sent strawberry origins to the laboratories, and we should have answers at the beginning of next year. I really hope so sooner. As a next step within the new Agriculture and Food Agency and as part of risk assessment and risk management, the origin is definitely identified, and honey is part of this work plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U144	Tarmo Kruusimäe, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U145	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Your predecessors have always said they're taking it to heart, but I can talk about it here for the second year in a row. I hope so. Would it be possible for the Estonian Beekeeper Support Group to make an amendment to this effect, so that we go to Germany for honey origin, who has proposed a microbiological detection method?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U146	If you have talked about this for two years, I can now assure you that part of the apiculture programme is also the analysis of honey and apiculture products, which is the same three-year programme of the PRIA that has been agreed among the apiculture organisations, and that is what we finance from the resources of the Estonian budget and from the European Union. The apiculture programme.eu is a homepage through which all the activities needed to be carried out across apiculture organisations are carried out, and the analysis of apiculture products and honey is part of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U147	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. I would now like to ask the Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee, Tarmo Tamm, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U148	Thank you, Head of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a peculiar day when very many drafts are rural and it is only a joy. This draft, 227, was dealt with in the Committee on Rural Affairs on Monday 16 November 2020. In addition to me, the members of the committee, Merry Aart, Heiki Hepner, Kaido Hoevilson, Erkki Keldo, Siret Kotka, Urmas Kruuse, Ivari Padar and Andrus Seede, participated. Arvo Aller, Minister of Rural Affairs, and Marko Gorban, Deputy Chancellor of Agriculture and Rural Policy, Ministry of Rural Affairs were invited. I am not going to read the debate on this draft law again, because the Minister has just done it, there is no reason to repeat it. But I, for example, asked questions in the Commission, was interested in the sources of funding for the apiculture programme. The minister replied that the implementation of the apiculture programme would take place in the future through e-PRIA and that this was a technical change that did not concern the sources of funding. Heiki Hepner noted that two draft laws amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union are currently underway: 227 and 245. He was interested in combining the two drafts. The minister replied that these drafts had been prepared at different times and for different purposes. The Ministry of Rural Affairs does not object to the merger of two drafts. Mr Daniel explained that the merger of the two drafts could be decided by the Commission after the completion of the first reading of the drafts 227 and 245. Then the further processing of draft 227 was discussed. I noted that the deadline for the 227 amendments to the draft is 10 working days in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. And it was decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the 227 plenary session by 24 November 2020 (this was a consensual one - Merry Aart, Heiki Hepner, Kaido Höökelson, Erkki Keldo, Siret Kotka, Urmas Kruuse, Ivari Padar, Andrus Seed and Tarmo Tamm) and to propose that the first reading of the draft 227 be completed (all the members of the committee agreed). That's just it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U149	Jevgeni Ossinovski, please, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U150	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Knowing that you are also a very big fan of organic farming, I would like to ask you for your assessment of the activities that the Ministry of Rural Affairs is currently seeing and which I also asked the Minister about. Understood, that's where the periods shift to and from there. What about the fact that no solution will be found for new organic farmers' applications or obligations in 2020 as well? For example, semi-natural communities have been identified as such, but organic farming is not. So how does it come together like that? Your support for Organic Estonia also came to the Environment Committee yesterday, we are saying that it is very nice, but at the same time we are sending out a completely different message that we are not taking in new organic producers this year. How do you assess the activities of the Ministry of Rural Affairs in this context?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U151	Thank you, Evgeny, for the question. The simple answer would be that this was not discussed by the Commission. But out of respect for you, I'm going to comment on that a little bit. Speaking of pollinators bees at all, in the European Union it has even been calculated that pollinators provide tens of billions of added value to the European Union's GDP, pollinators are very important and must be fought for in every way. I would point out that in the previous government, we introduced bee family support, which did not exist before, and which should also boost [bee] and help bee owners to cope. Today, the bee family allowance should be EUR 0.8 million per year, which was in the neighbouring countries and is now also available in Estonia. But the answer to this question is purely political and it relates to funding. As the Minister said, if anyone comes into the organic sector, he will commit himself to a five-year commitment and for five years he will have to be covered by the corresponding subsidies. In fact, it is a purely political choice, which choices are made, which sector is preferred and which is not preferred. But there should be this continuity, and we actually have a commitment until 2030 to make our organic land 25% of the total cultivated land. Of course, we can say that we have done well here; in the European Union, we are second to Austria with 22%. But yes, it is a question of political choices where money is directed and what choices are made.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U152	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U153	Good manager and waitress! There's been a lot of talk about these pollinators today. This support for families, which was implemented in the previous composition, was positive, and it was 0.8 million. But how much does the whole scheme described here actually increase the beekeepers' contributions? $8 million was family support, but how much does it give to beekeepers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U154	Thank you for your question. With regard to the level of support that we introduced, we considered that we were more or less in competition with our neighbours in the market. In the sense that our bee owners will not receive less support than their neighbours. Somewhere, I don't remember if Latvia had 25 euros per hive, and I don't know how much it was in Finland. But now, depending on the number of beekeepers, we should have it over EUR 20, whether it was EUR 22 or something. Year by year depends on how much is recorded and this amount is broken down by year. Which is another good, positive thing that makes many bee families legal. Now the statistics can be kept, these diseases can be controlled and so on, because now the owners have come to register to receive this support. And with a lot of bee families, for them, it's quite important additional money to carry out this management.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U155	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Is there a wish to make speeches on behalf of the political groups? There are no calls, the negotiations are closed. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 227 and the first reading has been completed. The deadline for tabling amendments is 8 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U156	We will look at the next item, No 6, which is the draft law amending the law on the implementation of the European Union's common agricultural policy, initiated by the Government of the Republic, with number 245. Let's start reading it first and waitress, please, Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U157	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Law implementing the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, which is being read, has been developed with regard to the need to lay down the conditions for obtaining import licences for hemp seed for purposes other than sowing and to provide the Minister responsible for the sector with a mandate for the management of import and export measures instead of the Government of the Republic. Pursuant to the European Commission Regulation, the Member State concerned shall establish a procedure for the approval of importers of hemp seed for purposes other than sowing. The conditions for approval and the carrying out of checks shall be determined in accordance with this procedure. Consequently, the Law implementing the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union regulates the competence of the Agricultural Registers and Information Office to carry out checks on the proper use of hemp seed and complements the law with a mandate rule that the Minister may lay down more detailed requirements for approval by a regulation. The amendments to the draft law aim to make the application for an agricultural product licence clearer in the future. To that end, a condition shall be established for obtaining an import licence for hemp seed for purposes other than sowing, namely the approval of the PRIA. The person who has received an import licence shall also be required to provide documentation on the use of hemp seed and shall be given the power to check compliance with the requirements for the use of hemp seed to the PRIA. The aim is also to lay down a mandate rule for the prior approval, the establishment of more precise requirements and, instead of the Government of the Republic, the possibility for the Minister responsible for the sector to introduce more precise procedures and requirements for the application for import and export licences, import rights and inward processing certificates for agricultural products, export refunds and applications by means of a Regulation. The authorisation rule is not limited to any specific agricultural product, but in particular it is necessary to lay down conditions for the approval of imports of hemp seed for purposes other than sowing. All the provisions to be amended by the draft are related to European Union legislation. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U158	Peter Ernits, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U159	Good manager! Good waitress! I look at these two drafts, whose numbers are different, but the text, at least the first lines, are completely identical. One has five paragraphs, the other has three paragraphs: three in the case of hemp seeds, five in the case of honeycombs. Why didn't you put them together? In the case of entry into force there are no special conditions, either at any time on 1 July or at any other time. The simple question: why couldn't bees and hemp seeds be together, and they're reporting side by side?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U160	Thank you. Indeed, the same question was raised in the Committee on Rural Affairs, as the Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs referred to earlier. It was simply that the bee and bee were presented earlier and the hemp seed had to be changed later. Indeed, they could be combined into a single draft, and I think that between two readings it might be useful. We saw no reason why we should not do this. Why we wanted to get beekeeping faster in e-PRIA was that, unfortunately, in the spring, before the Riigikogu went on summer holidays, it was not possible to process it, and then this part of beekeeping was left out and moved into autumn. I am pleased that it has come to a reading together with the processing of hemp seeds.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U161	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U162	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As this is a draft of hemp seeds, I have to ask a very specific question. The purpose of the Act is to obtain import licences for hemp seed for purposes other than sowing. The simple question is: why will these hemp seeds be used?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U163	Thank you. In the field of seeds and agriculture, what is it used for? It comes in, can be used for oil pressing and animal feed. These licences are currently granted for seeds. If for sowing, you will be brought in and the PRIA can be checked. Unfortunately, if you take an import licence for non-sowing, then later reporting is incomplete. With this law, we want to make a report that within 12 months we must inform and report what has been done to the seed they were not sown. And that can be done by the PRIA. For oil production, animal feed and feed mixtures.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U164	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Heiki Hepner, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to serve as a rapporteur for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U165	Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Rural Affairs on 16 November 2020 and was presented to us by Marko Gorban from the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The presentation was so good that the members of the Commission did not have any questions, we could immediately turn to the decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft 245 be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 November, the decision was consensual. At the same time, it was decided to propose that draft 245 should be closed at first reading, and that decision was also consensual. The chairman of the committee Tarmo Tamm stated that the deadline for amendments could be 10 working days in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. That is briefly all I can add on the part of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U166	Thank you very much. The members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. We have the commission's proposal to finish the first reading of draft 245 and the first reading is finished. The deadline for tabling amendments is 8 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U167	We will take the next item on the agenda, this is the seventh item on the agenda: Draft Act amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and Riigikogu member Raimond Kaljulaid, with the number 250. Let's start reading it first and waitress here for a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U168	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The economic crisis following the health crisis has a dramatic impact on the labour market situation. The labour market is facing the most difficult times in 2020. As a result of the second wave of the virus, the number of unemployed has risen to record levels and the situation is feared to deteriorate further in winter. It is those people who work in sectors where wages are lower that are most at risk of redundancy. The draft Social Democrats will ensure that people who have lost their jobs are protected more effectively and will provide them with better opportunities both to find new jobs and to retrain. Over the year, the number of registered unemployed has increased from 30467 to 51000 and even more. The unemployment rate is almost 8%. According to various experts, the number of unemployed is growing rapidly in the near future, so many people are at risk of being unemployed. Unemployment, in turn, threatens people at risk of falling into poverty, the elderly and people with disabilities, young people and other languages, as well as others. It is therefore essential to make today's unemployment benefit system more flexible so that it contributes to improving the livelihood of the unemployed. The purpose of unemployment benefit must be to provide people with adequate replacement income for the period of job search. The draft law amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 250 extends the scope of unemployment benefit and increases the amount of unemployment benefit. The aim of the draft is to improve the economic livelihood of the unemployed while looking for a job, enabling them to go to training to find a job that meets their skills and expectations. If we look at today's situation, insufficient social protection for our unemployed people does not give them enough time to go to training, to study, to look for a job in a position to be able to do it, but it forces us to take the first job in advance, or to make them go on early retirement or to look for work outside of Estonia. Repeatedly, research by the OECD and the European Commission, for example, as well as our own National Audit Office, have highlighted the need to change the unemployment benefit system. Estonia has not met the requirements of the European Social Charter. After all, the minimum unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit are too limited to keep people from becoming poor. Although it was only recently that we increased the unemployment benefit rate to 60% of the average wage of the employee on the first 100 days of unemployment, the percentage of the benefit received from day 101 was not raised. If a person has worked full-time and received a minimum wage, he or she will receive EUR 350 per month for the first 100 days of the current regulation, from there to EUR 233 per month. At the same time, the minimum subsistence allowance is 220 euros per month. If you look at the numbers, you can see the poverty. And our proposal is to increase unemployment benefit rates. On the first 100 days of unemployment, it should be 70%, which would make EUR 408 80 cents of the previous income for the recipient of the minimum wage. And from that point of view, 50% of the 101st day, that would be EUR 292 for the recipient of the minimum wage. Secondly, cover must also be extended to people who have left work formally, either by agreement between the parties or at their own request. Of course, those who have been released either because of a breach of their duties or on similar grounds are excluded from the range of beneficiaries. If the employment relationship was terminated by agreement between the parties or on the staff member's initiative, the payment of the benefit shall be postponed by 30 days of unemployment. The money starts ticking from day 31. This standstill limit is also in place in several other countries and should reduce the risk that, for example, instead of being laid off, employers will only end their employment relationships with the agreement of the parties. For example, Denmark has a three-week waiting period, Austria has four weeks and Cyprus has a six-week waiting period. The draft also raises unemployment benefit rates, as I said before. Both the unemployment fund and the Tax and Customs Board have analysed the causes of unemployment. For example, in 2018, 70200 and 77000 employment relationships were terminated at the employee's own request, with the agreement of the parties, largely by voluntary coercion. However, they have also paid their unemployment contributions. Repeatedly, research by the OECD and the European Commission, for example, and our own National Audit Office, as I said earlier, have also highlighted the need to change the unemployment benefit system. Estonia has not met the requirements of the Social Charter. The disadvantage of the current system is that the unemployed who know that they do not qualify for unemployment benefit do not register at the unemployment fund and therefore lose the necessary services. According to Statistics Estonia, in 2018 10% of the unemployed who were not registered at the unemployment fund indicated that they were not entitled to unemployment benefit or unemployment benefit. Perhaps another reminder, which we have also heard in this Chamber, is that the Employment Contracts Act, which was adopted in 2008, extended the circle of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits by agreement between the parties and on their own initiative to leave work. Unemployment benefit rates were also increased. At that time, however, these changes were not implemented, on the grounds of the economic crisis. This mistake must be corrected. It's not wise to step on the same rag again. And now is the time to correct this mistake and implement the necessary changes. In particular, it should be important for the country to keep people on the labour market, as it is much more difficult and costly to return to the labour market than keeping people there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U169	Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U170	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I read about the expected costs of implementing the bill. And it says interestingly that this year it would be 29 million and next year it would be 24 million. How do these costs arise or arise this year? And next year is 12 months. When the bill was filed, there were four months left. Is there a mistake or is there somewhere else? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U171	Thanks for asking. In fact, we filed this bill, as I recall, in September, yes, in September. And we weren't exactly able to predict when these really big waves of layoffs would start. We predicted that perhaps many people would be made redundant this year, but it will probably shift in some way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U172	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U173	Thank you, good manager. I also have expenditures on the budget [question]. I see that the cost of extending the circle of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit is 88 million in the draft, but according to the calculations made by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which was in the government's opinion, it was just over 40 million in two times less. Could you explain how these calculations lead to such a different outcome?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U174	Thank you for your question. The Ministry of Social Affairs has made these calculations with social tax, we didn't do it. And apparently, there has also been a difference of opinion with regard to those people who might or may not be made redundant this year. We've left that count with a shot, just in case. But I am pleased that these costs are actually lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U175	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U176	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I, too, am in the question of the budget. I am reading here the cost of extending the circle of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit. Does this mean that if this bill comes into force, the cost of extending it will be an additional 88 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U177	According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is 48.2 million, including social tax. Yes, if unemployment benefit were also to be granted to those who have left on their own initiative or with the agreement of the parties, this cost would naturally increase. But I don't think we can quite see it coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U178	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Good billwriter! I also asked the Commission this question, but I did not get a clear answer. I thought that maybe you've done some extra work and you've got my mind supported, and maybe you've done the math. According to the Government of the Republic's reply, there is a strong likelihood of an increase in the rate of unemployment insurance contributions when implementing this draft. My question is how much the Social Democrats intend to increase the unemployment insurance rate to cover the cost of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U180	Thank you, Honourable Asker. In fact, the Government of the Republic has also said that the change is likely to involve the need to increase the unemployment insurance rate, but it has not said that it is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U181	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U182	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I would ask if you also analysed this side, that if it is possible to obtain compensation on your own initiative or upon the agreement of the parties, whether there is a situation that I may receive compensation, then I will work somewhere for a year and then I will leave on my own request again and ask for compensation. In this way, it might be possible for young or older people to rest for more than a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U183	Let's just say today you can come up with all sorts of tricks, but actually, there would probably be a longer period here if you had to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U184	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U185	I will come back to this question I have asked myself once again. If you do not intend to increase the rate of unemployment insurance in the framework of this draft, to find a source of cover for this 88 million in your draft explanatory memorandum, are you thinking of taking this cover away from healthcare, for example, in the case of social tax? Or where do you find this source of cover? Because it seems to me that, in this form, you have presented this bill here, in my opinion, a few months ago. Then [the reason] for the great hall rejecting it was precisely that you had not properly calculated the sources of cover. Have you done your homework now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U186	Thank you. I think this is where the Government of the Republic needs to do its homework. If we are talking about having a few billion, which we are now going to share here in the state budget, which has come with extra money, etc., then in any case, in today's situation, the Government of the Republic should think about those who are going to lose their jobs, how they live. As I have already mentioned before, for example, how much does the recipient actually receive in the first 100 days of unemployment benefit, and after that, after he has worked longer, in fact with this money, we are honest, not living or dying. Another thing, of course, is the health risks that the Government of the Republic has not solved today, even from the first day of sickness insurance and so on. This is also very much the case for those who work on a minimum wage.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U187	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U188	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In replying to Tõnis Möldri's question, perhaps he will be helped further, it is true that before the Corona epidemic began, the volume of the available unemployment fund's reserves with unemployment insurance rates actually increased annually and was already forecast to reach almost EUR 1 billion. In fact, given the package of services that the unemployment fund provided for, these payment rates were too high. In this context, there are two options: either these services will be extended or increased, or unemployment security will be reduced. Undoubtedly now, in the short term, it is a question of the sustainability of the unemployment fund, given certain uncertainties of the economic crisis. But basically, since we are not only talking about short-term changes, but about a longer view, these additional compensation rates actually fit nicely into the current payment rates and there is no need to increase the payment rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U189	Thank you, Evgeny! Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U190	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U191	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Mr Mölder spoke here about money and funding, and I will continue with this. Maybe I haven't noticed anything, but now that this crisis started and all the wage subsidies and other subsidies were introduced and paid out, and that was very helpful, it was all taken from the unemployment contributions that people themselves had put there. I don't remember the government putting a dime in support of people back then. And I've never heard the government come to the aid of people and put more money in it to pay. Have you heard, or do you have any information that the government has supported the unemployment fund in recent years?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U192	Thank you. Have I ever heard of [just], but I know that the government has not supported. And the other thing is the money. Now is the time to get that money back to the unemployment fund and put it there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U193	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U194	Thank you. When I heard the voices of more sceptical colleagues here, I had this question that if today's statistics show that more than half of the unemployed live in poverty, it certainly prevents a person from looking for a job and getting a job interview, making a CV, etc. It must be harder to do when a person is poorer. Will it not end up costing the country more to keep these people in poverty? Would it not be better for them to be able to find a decent job and cope with themselves and to do so more quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U195	That's for sure! In fact, if this unemployment benefit, which is today, unfortunate and sad to hear and know, is below the level of deep poverty, then in fact, a person is often forced to accept maybe a work that is not suitable for himself, if at all. And secondly, he can't go to further training either, because he has to do something soon to get back to work. That's one thing. But, of course, giving people a breather so that they can look for suitable jobs, go to training is crucial.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U196	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U197	Good manager! Good waitress! The concern is sincere, but this construction may not be on the strongest legs. But let me ask you a question. For example, there are comparisons with three countries - Denmark, Austria and Cyprus - precisely this waiting period. In Denmark, there are three weeks, or 21 days, and in Cyprus, 42 days, and you have 30 days, like a church in the middle of a village, that is, like an Austrian level. Where did you aim that Estonia should be on the same line with Austria?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U198	Thank you. There's gotta be somewhere to stop it. From the 31st day, as you yourself [outlined], this standstill limit is used in several countries, in particular to reduce the risk that employers will only end employment by agreement between the parties instead of being laid off, that is one part of the case. It has been put here, let's say we wait a month, but we can also extend it if amendments are tabled, maybe a month, but maybe a reduction.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U199	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U200	Thank you for the floor. Good waitress! As the explanatory memorandum to this law states, in fact, almost a third of the applicants for unemployment benefit did not qualify for this benefit because of the reason for the termination of employment. So this is what this bill is doing: so that this third can also receive unemployment benefit, for which it is as if they are morally entitled, because they have paid unemployment insurance contributions and made their plans. They may not have known that the circumstances would change. In the current health and economic crisis, conditions are changing rapidly and often difficult to foresee. The government has not even been able to foresee a second wave coming and should do anything. We've seen here for months that it's just starting to get to them now, let alone other things. But can you tell me what Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik and his department thinks of this bill? I hope there was at least maximum support from that side, but as usual, coalition partners do not allow public support. Or what impression do you have of the view of Tanel Kiik and the Ministry of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U201	Yes, I read the paragraph here: "The Government of the Republic agrees that the crisis in COVID-19 is having a very significant impact on the labour market. To improve the livelihood of the unemployed and make the unemployment insurance system more flexible... " Then he brings up one or two changes that have already been made. Then it has been said that this is a perfectly sensible proposal, but it has also brought out a whole series of things, why not now and now. However, while we are also looking at the development plan that has been made years ago, there is also a similar discussion of the intention or agreement of the parties to resign. Praxis and other research companies have proposed that it should be implemented. Yeah, I'm afraid that's true.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U202	Indrek Saar, one more question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U203	In conclusion, would you tell us clearly what this problem is, what is unsolved today and what this bill would solve?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U204	This draft extends the range of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit. This means that both on their own initiative and in agreement with the parties, the graduates of the contract of employment will be entitled to unemployment benefit. And the unemployment benefit is increased to 70% for the first 100 days and then to 50% for the employee's previous salary. Maybe I could give you an example here. I have worked as a lawyer myself for years, and my employees came to me to ask if they could register as unemployed if the employer had ceased working with them in agreement with the parties. They had never heard of them not receiving unemployment benefit and not receiving services. Actually, a lot of people are in the dark, so let's be pretty honest. We may all think that workers are more aware, but often they only begin to think about the consequences of leaving work after they have left.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-24_U205	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions. The President shall adjourn for one minute and after one minute the sitting shall be adjourned. So we'll hear the co-rapporteur's report tomorrow, then we'll move on to the agenda. Thank you.
