ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 15th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I have the willingness to accept drafts and enquiries. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U2	Honourable Vice President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Democrats have one very important bill to hand over in the current situation. We all know how the economic crisis following the health crisis has a drastic impact on the labour market. If we look at the number of unemployed, it's already over 50,000. And the worst forecasts predict that 115,000 unemployed by autumn. Let us hope, however, that this will not happen. As a result, we want to extend the range of persons entitled to unemployment benefit, and we want to increase the rate of unemployment benefit. Those who would be entitled to unemployment benefit would have resigned, with the agreement of the parties and of their own accord, because it is often not the individual's own free will. We would also raise unemployment benefit rates: for the first 100 days, it is now 50% of the salary. This will certainly help people who are now unemployed or lose their jobs in the near future to be retrained so that they can look for work do not fall into poverty immediately from the first days of the job search. At present, unemployment insurance rates, especially for recipients of minimum wages, are very low. If you get just 270 euros a month for the first 100 days, that's too little. The aim of our draft is to increase this rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U3	I have adopted a bill on behalf of the management board and it will be dealt with in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act as usual. Now, please, the presence check! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing. We can start the trial. First of all, one detail on the specification of the agenda: today's first item on the agenda, which is to renegotiate the law amending the Rescue Act and the Weapons Act, which was not announced by the President of the Republic, will be presented on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs by the Member of the Commission Tarmo Kruusimäe. That kind of detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U4	We will then go to the first item on the agenda, which is not announced by the President of the Republic, to renegotiate the Act on Salvation and Amending the Weapons Act. We have two presentations, one from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the other from the Committee on Legal Affairs that dealt with this draft. The first presentation is from Hanno Pevkur, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The President of the Republic has returned to the Riigikogu the Act amending the Rescue Act and the Weapons Act adopted in the Riigikogu on 15 April 2020. According to the President of the Republic, the law adopted in Parliament is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The President of the Republic states in his letter and in his decision not to declare that he understands the need to process and also to issue information in certain situations, such as that covered by the draft. It is necessary to process this type of information to reply to requests via the emergency telephone service, and the President of the Republic agrees that in some cases it may also be reasonable and purposeful. At the same time, the President of the Republic states that the granting of the right to process a person's health data under the law must be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which, unfortunately, it is not in the proposed form. "In accordance with § 26 of the Constitution, the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data is one of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. The protection of personal data in Estonia's legal area has so far been considered particularly important and efforts have been made to ensure that persons themselves are able to decide to the maximum extent possible on the admissibility of the processing of such data." The President notes that the explanatory memorandum to the Rescue Act and the Amending Weapons Act and the minutes of the session of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu of 9 April 2020 establish a legal basis for processing the person's health data in a crisis situation without the consent of the persons or without the possibility of prohibiting such processing of personal data in order to be able to forward the relevant information to interested parties through the emergency telephone service in the future. To whom and under what conditions such information may be disclosed via the emergency telephone, the President considers that Parliament has not sufficiently defined at law level. Apart from other details, this is the main complaint by the President of the Republic about excessive restrictions on the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals with regard to the processing of health data. Therefore, the claims of the President of the Republic arise, as I have already mentioned, from § 26 of the Constitution. The President of the Republic also refers to § 3 of the Constitution, according to which state power is exercised solely on the basis of the Constitution and the laws consistent with it, and § 14 of the Constitution, which also obliges the legislative power to guarantee the rights and freedoms of everyone. Their offenses, the errors against them, are too great for this law and consequently the President did not declare it. The logical and necessary procedure for this decision of the President of the Republic was that it was received by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Commission discussed this issue on 14 May. On behalf of the President of the Republic, Tiit Riisalo, Head of the Office, Mall Gramberg and Peeter Kuimet were also present. Similarly, we received an overview from the Ministry of the Interior, mainly giving us answers from Deputy Secretary-General Viola Murd of Emergency Aid and Crisis Management. It is now important for us to understand what we have to decide today as a large hall. We do not have to go into the details of the substance of this law. We discussed this draft in this Chamber for a very long time, there were quite a lot of questions and the political groups were able to give their opinion. However, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we also discussed the content, and ultimately the Ministry of the Interior admitted that it was possible and necessary to write the law more accurately. It is the task of the large Chamber of Parliament now to decide whether we will adopt this law without amendment, despite the decision of the President of the Republic, or whether we will not adopt it without amendment, which means that we will begin to improve it. What questions did we raise from a constitutional point of view in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? The first was how much this issue has to do with the crisis situation. This issue was raised first by Mr Kiisler, who specifically asked whether it was only a crisis situation or an emergency situation. The position of the Ministry of the Interior is that in fact this is not directly and exclusively related to an emergency situation. Vice Chancellor Viola Murd confirmed that this draft passed the normal procedure and reached the Riigikogu in December 2019. We were also talking about how it can still be regulated in practice. We know that, under the current regulation, it will take up to five days for health data to reach the health information system and, in an emergency, it will not be enough to provide information to people. But the main debate focused on how much it is needed and whether human health data is protected. Indeed, as the President of the Republic noted, the protection of health data has been something that has made the Estonian health information system reliable. People must be able to check to whom and how much their health data are published. There was also the possibility that if we now have the principle that medical records are public to doctors until people prohibit them, then perhaps the emergency helpline could be used the other way around and based on the fact that certain types of health data are only public if the person has allowed it. But the Department of the Interior didn't think it was reasonable. The main focus of the Ministry of the Interior has always been that not all health data are actually published, but only in crisis or emergency situations, the Emergency Response Centre receives the data from the emergency telephone in which it is located. That's what it takes for the loved ones in the victim to get that information. And when discussing various issues, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs still reached a consensual decision not to adopt this law in a way that is unchanged, it is very important to propose today to the Grand Chamber to support the position of the President of the Republic, to start improving the law and to ensure that the use of human health data by the Emergency Response Centre's emergency telephone is either a) more precisely and better regulated, or b) this is not the case. But that is the question of further debate. As I mentioned, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Interior confirmed that they believe that they have already prepared the necessary and sufficient amendments to the law. The amendment would mainly include the fact that the data elements currently planned in the Minister of the Interior's regulation, what is and who is entitled to know, are written into the law. But once again, what are the possible changes is the subject of further debate. This is, of course, in the event that the great hall today decides to support the President of the Republic and say yes, we need to regulate this issue better. We need to decide whether it is necessary to report the data of the affected person to his or her loved ones in a crisis situation, whether this is possible and, if possible, in what form these data will move. We really must not go against the fundamental rights and freedoms of a person, especially given the secrecy of his health records. In conclusion, the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to support the President of the Republic and the amendment of the Law on Salvation and Weapons Act is not to be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U6	Thank you very much. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask a question to each of the rapporteurs. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U7	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am far from being pleased that we are discussing this draft again here today, because it shows the quality of the Riigikogu's work. But I'm still happy that we have a chance to make amends. Even at the time of processing this draft in the Committee on Social Affairs, when we met representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the question arose of the same concept of crisis that is missing from the law. In this connection, I would like to ask whether you discussed possible solutions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Is this an amendment to the rescue law, or should we instead look into the emergency law? This issue is actually broader and concerns several drafts. What is the emergency, what is the crisis, and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U8	Thank you. First of all, the concept of crisis. This is also what the President of the Republic of Estonia, the President of the Republic, said that since we do not currently have the concept of crisis as a legal definition, it is very difficult to define which cases are going down there. Are these all the emergencies arising from the Emergency Act? Is this also a state of emergency and martial law? These terms certainly need to be clarified. As far as possible solutions are concerned, the Ministry of the Interior has indeed already started work and has proposed certain options for resolving the situation. The Ministry of the Interior sees that such a crisis helpline with such a function as to provide the nearest persons with the minimum necessary information about the victim is necessary. Just to free the rescue director from sharing such information and not overloading our usual emergency call 112. And the President of the Republic also said that yes, this service is necessary. I think that the Ministry of the Interior has already come up with an understanding that these new concepts, or some of the solutions that have been proposed, are not sufficient. People may not fully understand whether it is a service provided by the PSAP or whether it is a service similar to that we have a child helpline or other phones. In fact, it should be clearly understood that the PSAP is part of the emergency response. And the most important thing is what kind of information you get. The technical solution is actually very important. In the current situation, this is a 'empty' solution because the regulation of the Minister of Social Affairs allows the health care provider to transmit patient data to the health information system within up to five working days. It is clear that this is not the solution. In fact, there are a number of questions: Whether to use ambulance data quickly, for example, usually leads the victim to an ambulance and this information would reach the Alarm Centre, or whether to stay with health information system data. This would mean that health care providers must immediately add data to the health information system and this request from the Alert Centre must also be clearly stated at the level of the law, which can be asked for. Neither Members of Parliament nor anyone in the Republic of Estonia must have any doubt that their health information, their sensitive health data, will come into the hands of third parties. This is the most important requirement: the Riigikogu must ensure that human health data is protected. But yes, these options have already been considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U9	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, During these discussions, there has also been a question of who can still access these data. But one thing that was somehow overlooked in this Chamber was that the patient, perhaps the victim who goes to the hospital, has every right to say who might know that he is in the hospital. And how much could the example of the current crisis have been the cases where a patient cannot tell those persons or the person who can access their data? At the same time, we know that it happens in families that the patient does not want very close persons to be informed about his or her state of health. Were such examples given at the Commission meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U11	Thank you. We really asked the Commission that again, even though it was in this big Chamber before the debate. Actually, we didn't get very accurate information. But let's take the overall number of calls: Kätlin Alvela, or the head of the Alert Center, said that, for example, on March 12, 4,000 calls came to 112, which was twice as many as usual. The truth is that the vast majority were asked for information or information related to the spread of the virus. But a particular number of questions about where someone close was asked could not be said. And listening to both the Ministry of the Interior and the Alert Centre, it is clear that in the event of major accidents, a very large number of people need information at the same time, and only four institutions can then decide how much information will be released. And these restrictions should be established at the level of the law. This is a bit unclear in this version. However, it should be very clear how much data it is. The plan is yes to indicate where and when the person has been provided with health care. But, of course, it leaves questions in the air. Suppose, for example, that in a crisis situation, such as the current evolution of the virus, someone asks Urmas Kruus for health data and is answered that you have been taken to North Estonia Regional Hospital. The mere fact that you have been taken to the North Estonian Regional Hospital now allows you to assume that you have a coronal infection and are being treated against it. This already concerns sensitive health data. But I say that the PSAP sees this content more broadly: the law is not only about health data, but also about giving people information in the event of various accidents, whether their loved ones are at a meeting point, has been taken to a hospital, whether they are alive or in health. In fact, this involves a slightly larger number of cases, not just health crises. But, of course, the most sensitive issue here is the publication of health data.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U12	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U13	Thank you. I, too, am pleased that the President of the Republic took the protection of human health data in the health information system sufficiently seriously. But these arguments and contradictions with the Constitution were well set out in Parliament's proceedings when this law was adopted. You have now given us an overview of the substance of this problem, in this respect I completely agree with you, but could you open up a bit of the debate in the Commission from the point of view that I remember the coalition ambassadors telling us with dull consistency that there is no contradiction with the Constitution here. If you're so convinced of it, as Lord Karilaid said, why couldn't you convince the Ministry? Now somehow there seems to be a consensus. So has there been some sort of solemn moment of enlightenment on the side of the coalition, or in what way do you sum up the position that has arisen on the other side of this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U14	Thank you. I am going to make a protocol to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 14 May, which reflects our debate. On the coalition side, as I mentioned, Siim Kisler asked whether this bill was related only to an emergency situation. The majority of other questions and findings came from the chairman of the committee. The committee chairman actually indicated that the crisis hotline was necessary and that it was also very important for the PSAP to use it. The responses of the Ministry of the Interior, which can be interpreted as an expression of the coalition's desire, explained why this service is needed in the vast majority of cases. The end result was knowing that they were ready to correct this bill. It was a signal that came from the Home Office, and the coalition accepted or agreed to it. And the Commission was prepared to take a consensual decision that this draft needed to be improved, at least in terms of health data.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U15	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The rapporteur from the Commission. I could also start by saying that we talked in committees and in the big hall, but you didn't listen. I'm not gonna do it, though. I am simply saying that I am very pleased that the Commission has agreed that it needs to be changed. My question, however, is whether there was a debate at the committee on the subject of a restraining order issued by the court when it comes to cases of domestic violence? In cases of close relationship violence, the provision of such data is excluded. And the second question: was there a debate in the Commission about the fact that if a person has previously closed his or her data at the moment is able to make a tick in a particular box, and this data is closed, does this expression of will mean nothing, but still your data is being transmitted?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U17	Thank you. The formal answer is that neither of the issues you raised was, in essence, discussed in the Commission on this point. Our main debate focused on whether we should leave this law in the process and start all the substantive debates again, or whether the Commission is going to have to adopt the law unchanged with the proposal in the Chamber. The main debate still went on whether or not there was a problem, and the Commission realised that there was a problem. However, coming back to what you started your question with, you could say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was not the person dealing with this draft in the Riigikogu. To this end, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs referred to this problem in their opinion to the Committee on Legal Affairs. So even before the adoption of the law, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs indicated that there might be problems here. Now, your remarks, first of all, to turn off the data. Yes, it is possible to shut down data, but we also know that this is possible for all data that are not time-critical. Time-critical data cannot be turned off. For example, it is not possible to turn off those that are necessarily needed health data in the ambulance work, so the simplest example is your blood type. In the same way, the data on allergies must be obtained by ambulances. But, of course, a person has the right to turn off his or her medical records if they are not time-critical. And, as I said, for this service, the Alarm Centre does not want to go into human health records in any way more than to find out if a person has been provided with a certain health care and, if so, where he is. What's wrong with him is still in the hands of the doctors. There's no way the PSAP can provide that information. As far as the question of a restraining order is concerned, it is actually the same. We were not discussing this in the Commission, but perhaps we should review this detail for a moment whether it is covered by other standards or whether it needs to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U18	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Here's another waitress, Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Legal Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U19	Good vice chairman! Good guardians of the Republic! The Committee on Legal Affairs gathered in exactly the same way that we called together a good bunch of specialists, and together we acknowledged that there was a need to discuss and make changes. This was actually accepted by the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior; the necessary changes will be introduced. I am willing to answer your questions in order to suppress, to some extent, the greater fears that we have experienced in this Chamber, in a good way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U20	Thank you very much. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U21	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you that, too. Now you support the amendment of this law, but if the procedure for this initial draft was both in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in the Chamber and if all these problems were acutely and clearly brought to the attention from the constitutional point of view, they were ignored, including by you. Could you tell me what changed your position in the meantime after the President's decision? I read the minutes of the sitting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and saw that many people have not fundamentally changed their minds. At least it was the feeling that they still thought the law was constitutional. This is also the opinion of the Head of the Secretariat of the Committee on Legal Affairs. You might want to give a little description of the attitude or opinion of the Members of the Commission. What's changed in the meantime? And try not to talk about tobacco tastes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U22	Thank you, good question! The waitress is free in her opinions, isn't she? There is no need for such restrictive, dictating tips! If some things are just plain and illustrative, they are also a good and useful public, the people who watch us on the Internet will get the picture more easily. I cannot speak for all the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, of course, but I can speak for myself and I can also say what we decided jointly. I am of the opinion that there is no such serious interference, but what I want to say is that we have been through the first serious emergency situation as a Parliament, and we all lacked preparation for this. In this emergency, we didn't really know much, and with a big, big hustle and pile, we made an elephant out of mosquitoes. In the end, though, we did not understand what was right and what was wrong. I remember these embarrassing discussions, where everyone here thought that people who generally deal with personal data in different ministries on a daily basis, while volunteering, somehow start to abuse these personal data. I have learned a great deal from you and from Hanno Pevkur, who has said that insurance companies and banks, for example, may want to get personal data so that, let's say, some things affect. But we panicked that from now on, the rescuers, the volunteers, and anyone who can access it, their primary interest is to somehow exploit people's delicate data. At the same time, we all know that they do not really have access to them, and that is not the purpose of this draft either. So I'm of the opinion that there's no serious barricade. Yeah, here are, let's say, interpretation questions. The President points out, for example, that it has not been clarified what the crisis is. Kuno Tammearu also says in this material, as you can see, that even NATO has not yet been able to interpret what the crisis is, and if we in Estonia could formulate exactly what the crisis is, then we would be an innovative state. But I think Estonia is agile. We will take money from the EAS and state what the crisis is and what we have done in 2020. I think that this is a good opportunity now if we give Parliament and the President the opportunity to resolve the situation in a dignified way. We actually made an elephant out of mosquitoes. Now let's quietly let that elephant out of the air! I hope that I will not make one very serious mistake now when talking with the mouth of the child, but my good colleague, Toomas, a colleague, asked if this draft was linked to the current crisis. He was told that this was not related to the current crisis. I dare say that this is linked to this crisis, because strategic planning and all such things foresee events in the world. They tell us how much we're actually ready for things and how much we're not. If you pick up the Home Office's HOS manual, which is an emergency law manual, you'll see that we need to be ready for a lot more things. Smart learns from the mistakes of others. Stupid never learns. I think it was some sort of preparation, because we did not know what the pandemic would be like and whether our health care system would collapse. For this and in good faith, the officials actually wanted to have a legal base in order to apply the number 1247 in addition to number 112. So my answer is that I don't see any problem here right now. Together, we will make proposals and changes in a very reasonable time, which I think are cosmetic in nature, and we will emerge from this crisis. May I remind you that today is the fourth day of emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U23	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Now, in a very brief way, can you put all this back together so your penguin can understand what you're saying? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U25	Got it! I am simply saying that our watchdogs in democracy always interpret quite a lot worse and that the situation is sometimes as it was in the Soviet army. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] My father's middle brother wrote to my grandmother and said I'm a lead singer. Grandma said how it's possible, she doesn't have a tune. Dad said that the one who screams the loudest is the lead singer. The watchdogs of our democracy fix a few keywords, they build a very complex structure, they see it as a conspiracy, and then it begins to live its own life, which will actually be believed by the group's advisers and, after a while, also by the delegates. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U26	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U27	Thank you. Dear watchdog of democracy! I've had to admit on several occasions that if I were as smart in advance as my wife afterwards, life would be much more beautiful. And I have a completely personal question for you. What have you learned from this whole process?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U28	Thank you, that's a good question! I must say that we may not be able to put your honorable husband and my honorable husband in line to compare how wise we would be in the future. But I think we have forgotten humanity in the course of this crisis. Human life and pandemic as such are things that we may not really understand. And in a situation like this, you're gonna start to shine in person with some things or you're not gonna wrangle anything sometimes. We also have several rescuers in the Riigikogu. I think there will be a grudge in them too once when people who are not involved start explaining to them how they should do one or the other or the third thing, because that's what they think. I say again: I have learned from this situation, and I think most people have learned from it. This was the first emergency situation for Estonia, and I think we came out quite well as a parliament. Now it is necessary to do this little cosmetic beauty treatment so that the President can also get out of this situation politely. This was the consensual decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs that we will not adopt this law unchanged, but that we will allow the Ministry of the Interior to make these minor changes. Because what matters most is that we need legal clarity. People must have confidence that no one can later say that some things are debatable or questionable in this law. That is my personal position.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U29	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U30	Good manager! Good waitress! Well, the penguin didn't understand you, and I'm having trouble understanding what happened in the committee. But you said it was the lead singer who made the loudest noise. Who was the loudest voice in the committee, and was it that some did not make a sound at all? Why were you chosen as a Commission waitress? Did you make the loudest noise there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U31	Thank you! The regulation provides that it must always be praised that was a good question. But sincerely, that's a good question. I'll give you that answer. Why am I here and not Jaanus Karlai? The reason is simply that the chairman of the committee should maintain his position with dignity. And since the Commission consensually considered that the law had to be adopted as amended, it turns out that I am perhaps the most flexible man in the Committee on Legal Affairs. But maybe not. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] What I'm saying is I think it was last Thursday when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed it. I took this opportunity to contact the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and said I would like to attend this meeting. I was really, really interested in this subject. At the same time, I like the fact that we have agreed in the Commission that if someone in the Commission has made some mistakes, it will be at our committee's door. I'm not gonna report here who seemed funny to me, who seemed inadequate. For me, however, the mystery is that when we reach a position in the Commission, the door to the Commission's premises is closed as soon as it takes place, like a restaurant: nothing is understood. I don't understand anything! We could bring this consensus to this great hall. So I'm not complaining about anybody. And you're not the first or the last to say I'm talking too complicated. But those who read the verbatim may realize that there is a small part of it that is enjoyable in play.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U32	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You gotta have some fun in this hall, and that's great. However, the concern that you are currently reporting on this issue, as well as Mr Ossinovski's response, cannot be accepted. The only problem is that volunteers who answer the phone there can access people's health records. It was perhaps part of the problem, and I would dare say a smaller part. The real bigger problem is that today, even if we are still in a crisis situation, we can essentially ask this phone which hospital the person is in. And that's the real problem. Let's say I call that number and say I'm your brother, your father, or some other relative. I know your social security number and your personal identification number, and I find out which hospital you're in. And then we can figure out what kind of disease you have. In fact, the circle of actors is considerably wider than those of volunteers. And volunteering can be controlled. There's no way I can accept this carelessness. Do you agree, though, that there is a problem here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U34	Thank you! I agree that this is also a good question. Absolutely sincere! It's nice if you're really so thoughtful and you're worried about me. I, too, was concerned about several of our coworkers who could not perform the corona test because they did not belong to the target group. I personally communicated with quite a few people and asked them how you were doing, and so did many people. There's nothing wrong with that. But in my opinion, the proposed verification questionnaire is too complicated. I also asked this question in the Committee on Legal Affairs: is this questionnaire too difficult and complicated? For example, an affected child wants to know where his mother is and is asked what school your mother went to, or other questions that the child does not know how to answer. In one way, we now have a great fear that our sensitive personal data will be misused. But the other way around, human care, human need to get the information. We need to find this balance here, and precisely because we need to ensure legal clarity, we are not adopting the law in its unchanged form, but we are asking for amendments. The time for amendments is still set by the Bureau. But I assume that we can make these changes with a pretty fast-accepted We have far greater political struggles and disputes coming. Let's let the emergency phone and the crisis regulators get on with the job! We may also be able to solve this problem so that no one will find out in five days' time where he is close to the hospital. As you may have learned in the course of these debates, right now you can easily retrieve this information from the hospital. We don't have that many hospitals, you just call them over: Is Tarmo Kruusimäe in the second, third or fourth hospital? A little tip: I don't have a brother or a father.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U35	Mart Gridship, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U36	Thank you. I will also clarify the point of my question. You're saying that if a colleague is worried, it's not a problem for you. If a benevolent colleague asks, that is not the problem, but should he be aware of it? Maybe we're not that close. And it can be exploited by a journalist or by some malicious person, for whom you may not want him to know where you are in the hospital and what kind of illness you are suffering from. Do you agree with me that, in fact, there should still be control over which sensitive personal data are disclosed, including what kind of treatment a person receives, in which institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U37	Thank you! I congratulate you again on this question. I know it's possible to transfer these data now to the Alert Center, the Health Board, the P.P.A. and the Defense Police, the Rescue Board, too. I'm thinking of data that has happened during an emergency. I am not literally talking about an emergency situation, but about a crisis at all. But what I'm saying is, we're not really worried about ourselves, who we are 24/7 public figures. The fact that journalists view us as they view us is their job. They call themselves the fourth power, but one of the hallmarks of power is responsibilities and responsibility. They've forgotten about that once in a while. I have to accept the fact that I'm with you as a public figure and assail everyone. Everyone can think something about me and interpret anything. But actually, we're worried about other people who don't want to be so public, and I don't see anyone having that feared opportunity today. After all, the yellow press would use it all they can to find out, for example, whether someone's in drug treatment or repairing a sex and shoe combinate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U38	It is now the case that the manager made a mistake and gave my colleague, the Networker, another question that should not have been done...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U39	Forgive me!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U40	Everyone has one question. That's why I'm now giving Peter Ernits another chance, because he put it in that moment too...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U41	[[Makes sound tape rewinding sound.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U42	Let's take the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U43	Good President, thank you for getting me back on the line! But I'm going to ask you this question. I think this bill has become such a paranoia bill. Since you have been involved in the work of both committees, how would you describe the activities of both committees? Which one was the paranoia moment like more?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U44	I congratulate once again on the question and congratulate you. Your wording is maybe, let's say, a little rough. Paranoia I'm not a specialist, and there are probably medical experts here who can comment better. It's still a diagnosis. But, let's say, there was some misinterpretation. It seems to me that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where several members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were present, there was a little more intelligence and restraint. Tiit Riisalo, director of the president's office, and other people from the office also participated. The role of the President in society is still given priority and it is advised not to appear too superficial in his dealings with him. So perhaps their own questions were formulated in a much more precise way and too much personal fears or prejudices were not taken into account. That would be my answer. But in the Committee on Legal Affairs, well, somewhere we must also ask these simple questions. We are only perfectly understandable if we can make these things clear to even the simplest voters. I would like to congratulate Andrei Korobeinik, who may have said in a radio show six years ago, when he was asked what cost him the idea that if you can make that idea clear to your grandmother, that idea would cost millions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U45	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U46	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I too, as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, was present at this meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and I do not think we had such a debate as is currently in this Chamber. I would remind you that you are not the author of the draft, but a waitress from the Commission. Please say in one word what our decision was! We, before today's debate last time in the Commission, did not hold discussions like that in this Chamber. With one sentence: what was the decision? Please don't leave your...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U47	The regulation provides that I must also commend this issue. And I've just learned so much from Aadu Black. He always asks the manager if I can afford to express my personal position. Many ambassadors asked me for a personal position. And what we have decided is here. Many have said in this Chamber that we can read well ourselves. But it was decided to support the amendment of the law. Consensus decision: Marek Jürgenson, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Kert Kingo, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast. But I would also like to add that we often remember things differently and often give them our meaning, and that is precisely according to which side of the coalition and opposition line we are on. I think that the discussions in our committee were all fruitful and no question was redundant or inadequate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U48	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U49	Mr President, thank you very much. Honourable performer! It is very good that the previous questioner specifically asked and you also answered what happened in the Commission. You have very fruitfully brought your personal views before us here and made circumstantial assessments to the President. Basically, no one understands what they want to understand. Everyone wants to show their own louder voice, and it's all bullshit, to put it mildly. I would advise you to think that this is not just a matter of constitution and law. It's basically about each and every one of us, each and every one of us, the ethical right to autonomy. And that alone will be the protection of personal data. I am clearly convinced that all the colleagues who have made their proposals here and criticised this law have done so on this basis, not on the basis of the desire for their voice to be louder. I'm seriously suggesting you think that. I am happy to explain to you what these things mean and what the relationship between ethics and personal data is. It's important to every person. It's not a word, it's not a slogan from anyone's poster. I very much ask that you do not proceed with such accusations against other Members. It's not a question, it's just a request.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U50	Thank you! It was a pleasant position. As you will notice, I have only positively recognised the people here by name from whom I have had to learn. And I did not mention any members of the Riigikogu who, in my opinion, have misbehaved in committee or elsewhere. So I think that your position has gone against me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U51	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. The negotiations are open to all. Toomas Kivimägi is the first to ask for a call.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U52	The honorable President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, By paraphrasing Signe Riisalot, I would say that I, too, am not very happy that we have to discuss the same draft for the fourth time. Hopefully we won't have to do this for the fifth and sixth time. But at the same time, I very much welcome the President of the Republic and his determination to stand up for the protection of sensitive personal data. I quote that the repetition is the mother of wisdom, Hanno has already referred to it once, the President of the Republic has said in his letter: "The protection of personal data in the Estonian legal area has so far been considered particularly important and has been sought to ensure that individuals themselves can decide on the maximum extent possible for the processing of such data." Very simple, understandable and very important talk. Of course, we also repeatedly drew attention to this problem in the three proceedings on this draft in this Chamber. And I don't think it's funny what it looked like before. At the end of Tarmo, he was nicely rehabilitated. Otherwise, the Committee on Legal Affairs would have made a pretty bad impression, but with your last sentences, you fixed all the mistakes you made earlier. Today, we are not really discussing this draft or amendments in substance here, but since the new draft, with the amendments, is de facto ready, the draft is ready, or at least it is on the table in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I am going to touch on some important points in order to try to convince you that this is not just a game. First of all, with this same law, I dare to say that it is the law that is intended to give the easiest access to personal health data. There is no other law that provides such easy access to sensitive personal data. Perhaps the same: Calling is enough to let you know the name of yourself and the person you want to know about. You don't even have to tell me your name, you can tell someone else's name if you don't have to. So there is no other such simple way, and I stress: there is no legally sensitive personal data available today, even if this law is intended to be given. This is the first major problem. The second, which is very important to note, is that, if this change was originally justified by the special situation in force, by today, everyone has recognised that there is no connection to the particular situation. In fact, there is no connection to the emergency situation and this was acknowledged by the Head of the Alarm Centre, Kätlin Alvela, who was preparing this debate at the Committee on Legal Affairs on 7 May. He also said that this had nothing to do with the emergency situation. This knowledge, too, is important because it is clear: we had no reason to rush. And we have no reason to rush today either. Thirdly, why this is not related to the special situation 'it has been said quite a number of times, too. I mean, in fact, the de facto current health information system and data transfer procedures. In general, information about the medical facility where one or another person has been present is obtained when an epidemic has been established. This is a medical record that will be compiled when a person leaves the hospital. Only then will this information reach the health information system. Indeed, in the preparation of this item for today's debate, it also became clear that there is a ministerial regulation which says that the place of placement in the inpatient care facility must be recorded within five days in the health information system. That's a little earlier then. But now I'm asking on behalf of the supporters if five days is it... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U53	An extra three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U54	... which ensures the operational transmission of information for this purpose. Well, the person is told to call in five days, so I can tell you where this parent or other relative is at the hospital. After all, this does not fulfil the stated objective. We actually need to change the system, it is not just a change in the law, it is much more. Fourthly, the draft law was also justified by the desire to reduce the workload of hospitals. That, too, is not at all true. This is because today there is no system to ensure that on-line information reaches the health information system. There is a need to come up with some kind of new system for this, and it actually means some additional obligation for hospitals. And they actually, let's just say, instead of treating a patient, figuratively speaking, have to fill out the paper. It cannot be said that it is irrelevant to fill out the paperwork, but it is still more important to grant the initial aid than to produce the paperwork. So the negotiation of this change also requires negotiation with hospitals. Finally, I would like to say that many of us also know from our personal experience that it may take a few minutes to lose trust. But to build trust, build trust, it takes days, months, sometimes even years or decades. And the most worrying thing about this rushing and opening up access to it is, in fact, that we seriously undermine the credibility of the health information system. However, the credibility of this system is the cornerstone of this system. If we dismantle this trust value, people will not be ready to transfer their data there. And in such a case, it does not have any substantive or medical significance if people do not dare to transfer their health data into the information system or oppose it. The proposal of the Reform Party Group is therefore very unambiguous: we do not theoretically rule out that there may be a situation in Estonia where there may be a need for more operational access to such data than today. But since today's special situation doesn't base it, we should take some time off. In order for these other legal provisions to enter into force, the amendments to ensure access to the health information system should be removed from the law, the rest accepted and returned to the subject in the autumn. The Reform Party Group supports the adoption of this law in its unaltered state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U55	Signe Riisalo requesting a call.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U56	Thank you, my colleague Toomas Kivimägi, for calling my name. But what I want to emphasise is indeed the fact that we do not need this provision today, which partly opens up human health data. Let's take some time off, think carefully about the situations in which this measure is needed. And then let's think about the regulation that actually helps in this situation that I hope will never come!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U57	Jevgeni Ossinovski, please, call from the speaker's chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pleasure that the President has not declared this law. And I am also very pleased that, at least on the basis of two Commission decisions, Parliament today decides to renegotiate the law and bring it into line with the Constitution. Bad feeling about two things. Firstly, because all the same arguments in the President's position actually sounded very thoroughly between the various readings in Parliament's proceedings. They were drafted in the form of amendments, but they were not actually listened to. And not without reason they were not listening, but, as we heard here today from a waitress, they have not really been understood today either. The Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as we understand, continues to think that everything is fine, and since he did not want to embarrass himself, he did not come here today. The waitress herself thinks it's actually okay, but, well, what is it that the president can reasonably withdraw, or whatever that expression was, we're gonna change it. In their opinion, it is not the health data and the constitution that are at issue, but whether someone can move forward or back. It's a kind of political game. Once again, this is a health record and it is very important. There was talk of a mosquito making an elephant. This is, in fact, a somewhat imaginary way of thinking about this, because it is indeed the case that democratic freedoms, constitutional rights and standards rarely happen to lapse in the short term or are no longer met. It can happen in a revolutionary situation, right, but generally it doesn't happen in the moment, it does take small steps. I have said this repeatedly when this bill was processed, but here again I repeat that the pressure on the opening up of the health information system to various public authorities and also to organisations outside the public sector has been constant, for example, for insurance companies. This has been continuous because there is a great deal of interest in these data, because they are important data and their possession enables certain procedures to be carried out more effectively. And that's how the mosquito eventually becomes an elephant. Each single change may not completely break the whole system, but it opens the door to the following. Because if you've taken one step, it's gonna be a lot harder for you to explain why we're not taking the next step, why we're not giving that right to the experts of the Defence Forces, for example, and why we're not giving that right to the experts of the unemployment fund. And then insurance companies aren't bad people, too. And finally, we're gonna get there, it's gonna collapse. And that is why it is extremely important for any person who considers the Constitution to be important and the members of the Riigikogu to consider it important, namely to consider this mosquito, this small detail and the place where it is actually felt that it is not in line with the idea of the Constitution that it is actually going to push us in the wrong direction. It must be slowed down immediately in the initial phase so that it does not become a greater subversive of fundamental human rights or the meaning of the Constitution. In the context of the procedure for this draft law, it has been a great deal of attention, and it is a great pity that the honourable colleagues, who have also spoken here today and who have supported this draft at the first attempt, have not actually drawn the necessary conclusions. In a sense, their support for the re-negotiation of this law seems to be a generosity that is now their response to other parties in the Republic of Estonia that they are prepared to discuss it again. I hope that there will be still room for enlightenment during this debate. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U59	Thank you very much. The desire to participate in the negotiations has not been shown any more, so we are preparing for the final vote. Before I call everyone to the final vote, however, I will make one important remark so that we all understand what we are voting on. In particular, the Home and Working Procedures Act says that in this case the law can only be put to the vote in the same way: I will put to the vote the adoption of this law without amendment. If we vote in favour, we have voted in favour of its adoption unchanged. Both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs propose not to adopt the law unchanged. If we support this proposal, we will vote against the law. That's the story. Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U60	Thank you. I think this is very important information that colleagues who are coming to vote and who are not presently in the Chamber would also like to know. Maybe you'll say that after you've done the call.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U61	Call sign! All right! Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on the adoption of the draft law amending the rescue law and the arms law, which has not been announced by the President of the Republic, unchanged. I repeat once again, as Mr Ossinovski suggested, so that everyone can understand clearly what we are voting on. The Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides that I shall put to the vote the adoption of this law in its unaltered state. So if we vote in favour of this law, we will vote in favour of its adoption unchanged. If we follow the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs to amend this law, we will vote against. There you go. Please take a stand and vote. The Riigikogu has unanimously voted in favour of this law being amended. The law was not adopted unchanged. And the law amending the Law on Salvation and the Law on Arms... Chez! It's a very important message! The deadline for amendments is 4 June at 5.15 p.m. We have finished addressing this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U62	The second item is the draft Act of the Government of the Republic and the Act of Amendment of Other Laws (Education and Youth Office, Language Inspectorate, Language Administration) 163. Let's start with the second reading. Mr Marko Šorini, member of the Committee on Culture, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U63	President-in-Office of the Council. Good guys in the hall! The Committee on Culture discussed this draft at its meeting on 11 May. Mart Laidmets, Chancellor of the Ministry of Education and Research, Sille Uusna, Head of the Legal Department, and Kristi Mikiver, Project Manager, were invited. Since this was a second reading and there was a deadline for amendments, let it be understood that no amendments were received. However, the Estonian Youth Association, Archimedes Foundation, the Estonian Youth Workers' Assembly, the Education Information Technology Foundation, the Estonian Language Institute, the Estonian Student Association and the Estonian Open Youth Centres Association sent their opinions on the draft. Chancellor Mart Laidmets said that after the first reading of the draft, the selection committee of the Supreme Leaders of the State Chancellery has launched a competition for the Director General of the new office. The drafting of the statutes is underway so that the agencies can become operational in the autumn following the adoption of the Act in the Riigikogu. The issues raised by the Estonian Language Institute have also been discussed separately in the Language Council. The consensus has been reached that the reputation and digital development of the Estonian language should be the responsibility of everyone who comes into contact with the language area, not just the Institute of Estonian Language. No major opposition and concerns have been presented to the Ministry on other issues. The words of the Chancellor were supplemented by Kristi Mikiver and Sille Uusna, who gave an overview that despite the fact that the whole world was living in a period of crisis, the establishment and change of name of these institutions has been a success. The Commission's advisor, Urvo Klopets, gave an overview of the opinions received. They were sealed in blocks, there were four larger blocks. Firstly, there was concern that the structure was unclear, but let it be understood that the structure has now been communicated to the Commission. Therefore, the structure has been developed and communicated to the parties. Another major block was the proposal to enforce the law from 1 January next year. This is justified on several occasions by the fact that the beginning of the school year is more important for educational institutions, i.e. 1 September in general than for everyone else. The Erasmus+ and the European Solidarity Corps programmes are specifically mentioned, and they will then start a new year in the new structure. The Estonian Student Association was concerned about ensuring independent assessment of the quality of higher education in the new structure. It should be pointed out that the new structure makes a distinction between evaluation and evaluation. The fourth theme statement concerned the tasks of the Estonian Language Institute and the Language Board. The Institute of Estonian Language has proposed to the Committee on Culture that the draft explanatory memorandum be clarified. The Ministry has been asked about this and, according to the Ministry's explanations, the allocation of tasks does not need to be redrafted in the Commission's explanatory memorandum, since a number of agencies can carry out the same task in general terms. The Ministry has also confirmed that the tasks will not be duplicated and the current tasks of the Institute of Estonian Language will still be performed by the Institute of Estonian Language. Kristi Mikiver noted that during the discussions, the parties had reached a consensus on a number of issues. There were concerns that the tasks of the Estonian Language Institute could be transferred to the language administration to be created. Opinions have been taken into account and there are no more disagreements. The Language Board and the Institute of Estonian Language have a role to play in the same tasks. In the basic regulation of the Language Board, the tasks will be further clarified. The Institute of Estonian Language can give this document its coordination and make sure that there is no duplication and no one threatens the tasks of the Institute of Estonian Language. Next came questions from the members of the Commission, which were submitted by three members of the Commission. Firstly, Mr Black, Chairman of the Commission, asked for a new discussion and clarification on the start of the changeover. I briefly touched the dilemma on January 1st versus September 1. Mr Laidmets re-opened it to the members of the Committee on Culture. Next, Kristina asked for Shmigun-Vähi. He has been approached by providers of hobby education who are concerned that their role in setting up a new agency may be reduced. Mr Laidmets replied that the Ministry had been approached with exactly the same concern and that this had, of course, been taken into account. He pointed out that the providers of hobby education were currently separated and that the desire was to see all educational and youth activities, including recreational activities, in a single picture. Laidmets confirmed that the activities of young people have also been specifically identified in the structure of the composite agency. Katri Raik asked if there was any plan to save officials. Mart Laidmets replied that foundations are currently private foundations, and now they become public authorities. Many support services will be provided to them by the State Support Services Centre. Laidmets confirmed that the Ministry has not been given a specific austerity figure, but the plan is to review the activities of the Ministry so far in foundations and to contribute more to content. No further questions were asked and the Commission took procedural decisions. There was a proposal to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 20 May, but since the agenda was very long on 20 May, the Bureau raised it to this day, after coordinating it with the rapporteur. Thanks to the board for that. It was a consensual decision. Another consensual decision was the proposal to close the second reading. And the third consensual decision: once the second reading is completed, propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading by 3 June and then the final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U64	Thank you very much. Questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U65	Good manager! Good waitress! Was this subject also discussed in the Commission? You said that the committee that elected senior civil servants was already working to make the head of the office a person who also had professional competence. But let's remind ourselves, in the case of several heads of state offices, just bureaucrats have been chosen. Health department's a good example of the last time. Was the need for professional competence also discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U66	Thank you for your question. If you look at the Commission's minutes, you can see that the debate was limited to what I mentioned in my speech: the competition has begun. There was no specific mention of the terms of the competition. Since none of us is a member of the nomination committee, I do not know which conditions have been set out in the call for competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U67	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U68	Thank you. Did the Commission mention how good practice it can be to see that, in a situation where Parliament has not yet done half of its proceedings on this government's proposal, the executive power is already organising a competition to find people there? Doesn't that seem like a bad taste in a parliamentary country?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U69	Thank you for your question. If you answer the question directly, it was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U70	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U71	Good President! Good speaker! As regards the creation of the Language Office, our Russian-speaking people have had the question of whether the control of language skills will become more stringent than it is now. As we know, the Language Inspectorate has so far been such an irritating and alarming institution for a Russian-speaking person. That name is almost a line word. Anything's gonna change? Can you confirm that nothing gets tougher, or if it does, what will change?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U72	Thank you for your question. I totally understood the point of the question. Now, if the explanatory statement gets worse, you should probably look for the effects of the law, whether indirect or direct. And it does say here that the concentration of tasks in the Language Board strengthens the capacity required to implement language policy. The Language Board will become a national competence centre for matters relating to the implementation of language policy. A number of issues that have so far been dispersed between different bodies will be given a specific lead, a responsibility. But there is also another point concerning fines. It does not mention that fines are to be increased or that the amount of the fine must be higher in the national budget. So I think the explanatory memorandum confirms that the designation of the Language Inspectorate as Language Board is, on the one hand, part of the national direction to not use the "Inspection" word for public authorities, and, on the other hand, above all, the aim is to strengthen the development of the Estonian language and its image, not to use the slang here to tighten the screws.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U73	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U74	Thank you. I will continue with my colleague's question. I know that the Director General of the Language Inspectorate, Mr Tomusk, has said that there is a shortage of resources, that in fact much more is needed to comply with the requirements of the language law. There would be a great deal more inspections to be carried out, a great deal more staff would be needed, that its institution would be underbuilt and underfunded. Your response shows that one of the thoughts of creating a Language Board is that this capacity, strength and resource should be increased. Now that the fines do not increase, can you read from your reply that the number of language compliance monitoring procedures could make a qualitative leap when the Language Board is established? You kind of read it in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U75	I read it because it's exactly what it says in the explanatory memorandum. And the explanatory statement is pretty long. But if I recall, there are now 16 or 19 people in the Language Service, I might be wrong, but the other one, I think, was. It is not planned to bring directly more staff to the Creative Language Board. But as I emphasised, the Language Board is expanding its activities. Their statute is currently being drafted, but it is precisely the development of the Estonian language, increasing its image, increasing its popularity. The emphasis on increasing inspections has not emerged in these discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U76	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U77	My colleague Ossinovski asked if it was beautiful that the competition was already in progress, but the Riigikogu has not yet decided. I would remind you that we already have an example of this practice. The Director-General of the Environment Board was already elected, and then Minister Kisler came to us twice with a draft that failed. Now more than two years have passed and the Agency is still not connected, but [human] has been in office for over two years. But here's my question for you. As I understand it, this bad practice was not discussed in the Commission. But how do you feel about it? Should it still be that the law is passed first and then the head of office is elected? And should the head of the agency also share something in the field, or should he simply be a bureaucrat suitable for the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U78	Thank you for your question. Since I was also in the Chamber during the debate on the previous question, I understand that the current issue is, in fact, a bit of an attempt to lure me on a slippery path. Under the window, a vigilante argued with the speaker that he was talking about what was not discussed in the committee. So I have the urge to reply that this was not discussed in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U79	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U80	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Did the committee also discuss who will take responsibility for teaching Estonian at a school in other languages in this case? The established problem committee in the field of Estonian language learning has very often come across the fact that we do not have responsibilities in certain areas. Personally, it seems to me that the creation of another major organisation could lead to delays in the processes. Is that what the committee was talking about? If it wasn't, it's enough for me if you give me a brief answer that you weren't. But maybe we could talk a little bit about it before you start making decisions for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U81	I thank you for the question and also thank you for the opportunity to expand the subject a little. It has to be said that in the Commission we have been discussing this issue, but not with regard to this draft. Mr Stalnukhin has given us a pretty good overview of the problems that have been discussed in his committee and which they have already found. So in that sense, the answer is yes and no. This problem has not been addressed in the debate on this draft, but this problem has been raised in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U82	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U83	Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good Commission waitress! This is about youth work. So far, representatives of the umbrella organisations of youth work have said that everything has been well, that good cooperation has been between the centre of youth work and the umbrella organisations, and it is now somewhat feared that this connection with this new agency could perhaps be extended or that this agency will go further, whether this good contact between them will still be maintained and how it will go on. But my question is whether you also included in the committee meeting all kinds of target group organisations and their members, who have some concerns. Did you hear them out, and maybe you managed to calm them down a little bit? What was this aspect of inclusion in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U84	Thank you. The Commission's direct objective of involving all organisations involved in youth work and education was not. But the Ministry provided us with a table of the organisations involved, which proved that the creation of this office and the renaming of the Language Inspectorate have been discussed with them. When it comes to young people directly, I'm looking for... Project manager Kristi Mikiver assured us that he would go to the General Assembly of the Estonian Open Youth Centres to explain this topic to young people and to ensure that he would speak on 27 May. In the Commission itself, at least I had the feeling that inclusion was good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U85	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. There is an opportunity to open negotiations. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U86	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I propose 163 interruptions and I shall briefly state the reasons for this. First of all, as a member of the Committee on Culture, I know that work has been done to prepare a joint institution, officials have worked hard. Agencies have been spoken to, some have been spoken to target groups. We also know that involvement is never enough. And there are very serious issues that we think we should continue to work on before we decide to take a decision. First of all, I would like to point out that this is not a good time to prepare such an agency. There have been many questions about how a leader is already elected if it is not known if there will be a job at all. Today, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Minister are faced with quite different questions: how to complete this school year, how to organise graduation ceremonies, how to prepare the autumn school year, which we do not know exactly what it might be like. And it is also very important to analyse the lessons we learned in digital learning. Instead, a large resource is allocated to drawing different boxes and structures. The second question, which worries me very much, is that it has been pointed out in this super-institution that it will lead to people being made redundant, which is certainly not the main objective of creating one institution. It's been presented in public. The main issue in terms of the use of 500 workers is, in fact, what the Ministry and the Minister have to play. Policy-making must be clearly within the competence of the Ministry. Period. And the Ministry is also responsible. So what's going to be the minister's role? Does the Minister's role not diminish alongside the head of the superintendent who holds all the money and substantive power in the field of education? Doesn't the Minister's role decline in opening state secondary schools, graduation ceremonies, opening educational monuments? It is very important who remains in the hands of policy-making and responsibility. And there is another problem: it is that such a large organization stays too far away from its target groups, be they teachers, students, youth organisations or universities. And the third or, in fact, the fourth main problem is that the need for change has not been sufficiently explained to the authorities and target groups. I understand that this is a difficult activity, it always seems that it is not sufficiently informed, but yes, talking to the various parties has revealed that clarification still needs to be done. Of course, cooperation between authorities is important. We also saw this during the crisis, but one such a large institution may not be the best solution, especially at a rapid pace where a leader is already being sought, but there is not yet an institution itself. I'll pass on the suspension proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U87	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U88	Ladies and gentlemen, Two brief marks. The first is what I asked about in my question. It is, in a sense, a question of Parliament's dignity in a parliamentary state, that we should not allow the executive to regard ourselves as a rubber stamp. It is quite understandable that, at the official level, there is a desire to prepare some processes, it is also perfectly understandable for many public officials to see that Parliament's procedure is something that simply needs to be done, that the draft is going through here and that they can move on with their work. As Parliament, as Members of Parliament, we should oppose this trend, defend our dignity, which means that there will not be a competition for the Director-General of the new compound institution, even if Parliament has not yet discussed in substance whether or not to do such a body at all. As a result, the time limits for accession must also be different, allowing the parliamentary state a proper process. The second fact is, I have seen this from 2014 as a member of the government from a number of angles. That is a wish or I would say, even the enthusiasm of many public officials to be against mergers. It's believed that if you put two bad institutions together, you'll get one good institution. My experience is that you get one big and bad, not big and good. Sometimes it can be fortunate, but mostly the size of the institution, according to my experience, significantly less affects the quality of the work than the quality of its management itself. A small and well-managed institution can be very good, fulfilling precisely its purpose, being understood by everyone, being reliable to partners. There is no reason to liquidate this institution and put it together with someone else, because there is a risk that it will get worse if there is no longer enough attention in this large institution or if the new manager is not good enough. I am not talking specifically about any of the interfacings right now, I hope that no one here will read my assessment of one institution or another. I'll tell you in general. There is another option: there really is a small institution with a poor manager and, as a result, the institution is not performing its tasks. And then we want to add him to somebody. You don't have to add him to someone first, you can just change the driver. This is a fully acceptable and understandable management decision that can solve most of the problems. And indeed there are certain cases where the country has developed further, the functions have developed further and there may be an understanding that there may be substantial synergies in terms of both human competences and target groups. And then you get the feeling that, yeah, these two institutions together could be better delivered than apart. And in that case, of course, the merger decision should be made, there has been no doubt about that. And those decisions have been made. But bad choices have also been made. Whether this mammoth, which is now being put together, is the right decision whether it makes sense to add all these parts in this way, well, I am, to put it mildly, skeptical. There is no convincing argument as to why at least some of these institutions could not be maintained on their own. Risks would be lower and they are working very well now. In order not to say anything about specific institutions, I will give an example of another area where I have worked. When I became Minister of Social Affairs, it was an incredibly nice suggestion in our field that we join the Institute of Medicines, Health Board and Health Development. I didn't support it. In my opinion, this does not make sense: one is a research development agency, the other is an agency that deals with medicines and is located in a completely different city. What kind of synergy would there be? But the human feeling was that you see, it sounds like a state reform, it's the impression that we're doing something important when we put the big institutions together. And they didn't want it for anything bad. Indeed, there are people who believe that as big institutions as possible do better work than small ones. One minute more time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U89	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U90	I think that is not really the right view. We should be able to evaluate small, well-managed and well-functioning reliable institutions that perform their function well. We should not dismantle them in large mammoths, where their area will receive less attention and where there is a risk that, as a result of some, including changes in staff, we will find ourselves stranded not only by the institution, but by the whole area that is being managed. That's why I think we should think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-21_U91	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiation. We do not have any amendments, so the amendments will not be discussed. We now have two proposals: the proposal of the commission to conclude the second reading of draft 163 and the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to terminate the procedure for the second reading of draft Act amending the Government of the Republic and other laws (Education and Youth Administration, Language Inspection). Let's make a hall call and put it to a vote. Honourable colleagues, I am voting on the motion by the Group of the Social Democratic Party to interrupt the second reading of draft 163 SE. Please take a stand and vote. Eight members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, and 56 members of the Riigikogu voted against. The proposal for interruption was not supported. The second reading of Bill 163 is complete. We have also finished the sitting. The sitting is adjourned. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 11.46 a.m.
