ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-17_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am delighted to open the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 1st working week. First of all, the possibility of forwarding drafts and enquiries. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-17_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps. An inquiry is about the transition to education in Estonian. On 22 October 2019 the Riigikogu adopted the decision "Proposing the Government of the Republic to strengthen the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language', which assigned the government the task of developing a plan for the development of education in the Estonian language, starting with early education, which provides sufficient language skills to continue studies in the Estonian language at the next levels of education and lifelong learning. In the meantime, the Ministry of Education and Research has prepared a number of development plans on which we have raised a number of questions. For example, we ask, among other things, why the Ministry of Education and Research has abandoned the plan to start developing Estonian-language education from pre-school education so that children can continue their studies in Estonian when preparing two development plans. We ask about the timetable, budget resources and which activities have been funded in the state budget of 2021 for the development of education in Estonian since early childhood education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-17_U3	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-17_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am handing over a draft which will allow a person to stay home with compensation from the first day of illness. When we listened to the President of the Riigikogu on Monday, he said very nicely that the Riigikogu should be more flexible and active. I quote: 'We must speak in the Riigikogu on the same topics that the people are discussing. These issues need to be discussed at the right time, not with great delay. Otherwise, we will live in a bubble on our own, and we will be ensnared into meeting the wrong priorities. The Riigikogu should assume a greater role in initiating draft laws. ' I totally agree with that. It was surprising to me that during the summer they were very different people, so they were scientists or hired workers, worried that if there was a second wave, how was it funded to stay home? Yes, we are now in a situation where the government has instructed us to stay home with the first symptoms. But he has not been able to decide on the reimbursement of sick days. The ERR stated nicely the day before yesterday: 'The members of the government have been discussing for several weeks the earlier introduction of the beginning of the reimbursement of the sick leave, but so far without success. " In a situation where people are concerned about the fall sickness and the government does not come to the discussion of this issue, I think it is the responsibility of the delegates to take the job. I will make a very good proposal. In the spring, the first days were temporarily financed by the government or the state, then the role of the employer will come, the ninth day will be paid by the Health Insurance Fund, and now we will make this system easier. From the first day, sick days are compensated in equal parts by the employer and the state, with a total of 80%: 40% by the state, 40% by the employer. From the ninth day, in the case of longer illnesses, the sickness fund takes charge of the reimbursement. There is no motivation that the employer is interested in coming to work or staying home from a certain day. For everyone, the system is the same. As the Social Democratic Party Group believes very strongly in knowledge-based policy-making, the draft is that by 1 July 2022, i.e. after two seasons for the spread of infectious diseases, the system needs to be assessed and to see whether it works on whether people have taken too many sick leaves from the first day for any reason or without justification. Or the system has worked and must be continued. So I expect support and allow people to stay home from day one in case of infection.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-17_U5	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-17_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Social Democratic Party on behalf of the members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment about developments in the field of forestry. The subject is driven by a rather surprising turn by the process of drawing up a forestry development plan. Indeed, the Ministry of the Environment has not had a more important task in the last few years. Mr Kiisler is already looking this way sadly, because in his time this working group was set up, which had to discuss all these aspects in a broad way and to reach the plan that was discussed between the parties in the Riigikogu this year, evidence-based, beautiful, agreed. In the spring, the talk began that the plan would not be completed, because it is good to be involved, but the results will not be achieved. Then it had to happen in the fall. But now, at the beginning of this week, the Minister for the Environment informed the Committee on the Environment that there is now a new idea. Since the Ministry cannot handle its legal task, the intention is to propose to the Riigikogu to extend the existing development plan until the adoption of a new one. This is a very peculiar way of resolving the conflict that has arisen in society, in which scientists and the public are discussed at length whether the volume of felling should be 8, 10 or 6 million cubic metres. But it is much easier to extend simply the existing [development plan], which says that can be cut up to 15. In this context, we have quite a number of questions for the Minister for the Environment, who could explain how this process has gone in his vision, what grade he gives to the Ministry of the Environment and himself in it, and how we could come out of this situation. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-17_U7	Thank you. There are no further requests for referrals or draft laws. On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted these enquiries and draft laws and we will process them in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the law. Now, presence control, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-17_U8	74 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present; there are no 27 members of the Riigikogu. Now we could go to the agenda, but since there is nothing on the agenda, the session is closed. Thank you.
