ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 3rd working week Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? Yeah. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U2	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Guests! The National Defence Committee agreed yesterday to initiate a draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act. This will enable the Government of the Republic to establish the requirements and procedures for coordinating hardware and software used in communications networks. Yesterday, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this too. The Committee on National Defence decided that in the light of developments in 5G, the state needs to take further steps in this area. This solution is certainly not perfect, but it is obviously a step in the right direction. So we ask that we support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U3	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. The Management Board shall process the transferred draft in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Now the messages. Today, following the end of the plenary session, the next parliamentary groups will hold their own set-up meetings in this Chamber. Firstly, the Estonian-Greek parliamentary group, the convener is Kalev Kallo. Secondly, the Estonian-Bulgarian parliamentary group, the convener is Oudekki Loone. Incoming check, please! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have three items on the agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would point out that this requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have the opportunity to adopt a law that gives Estonian citizenship to children born in Estonia. We are constantly debating who will live in Estonia in years' time and for what reason these people come to our country or live here. Normally, this debate focuses on migration policy, where the Estonian state could really demonstrate a more thoughtful strategy. In my opinion, however, we must start with people born in Estonia. We have over 70,000 citizens with gray passports. This is more than the population of the city of Narva or Pärnu, for example. These people believe that Estonia is their homeland, despite the fact that on their passport, the Estonian state wrote the word 'foreign' in English. They don't have a second country. There are a few hundred countries in the world, and most of them have realized that their main assets are people, not gold or oil. The biggest competition is for talent today, and we can decide here how competitive Estonia will remain in the new era. We may be looking, and we probably also need to look for talent abroad, but we could still start with our own people. I regret that the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, who are supposedly liberals in terms of personal freedoms, voted against this draft at second reading. Yes, indeed, it is your political choice. In your opinion, these children did not deserve Estonian citizenship. I don't know, and I don't really care what your motive for voting was. Probably another political technological game with no winners in it. Today, however, you can think about and show that you are Estonian-minded enough. Here and now we can all decide together that the children born in Estonia and living here all their lives are not strangers to us. These are Estonian children. I believe in you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U6	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have a gray passport with me. I don't have it. I am a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, and I think that the principles of citizenship of the Republic of Estonia, which we have kept in Estonia throughout the ages, are what we must keep. These basic principles have been in force in the Citizenship Act of the Republic of Estonia since the beginning and they lay down a few very important basic positions. First of all, all the citizens of the Republic of Estonia who are born are Estonian citizens unconditionally and cannot be deprived of the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia. Secondly, all other people who are born in Estonia or who come to Estonia for some reason and wish to become a citizen of the Republic of Estonia one day need to fulfil two conditions: firstly, the Estonian language must be known and secondly, the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia must be known. These are the principles that the Republic of Estonia has maintained since the adoption of the Citizenship Act. These are the principles that we argue about here every once in a while. We see certain political forces all the time in the corner wanting to scrape them up, take the piece off again and take the piece off again, so it is possible to say at some point that you see, we have made so many changes, there is no need anymore. Of course, on this draft, it is a small draft. As my colleague Korobeinik said, what do you have against children? No, we have nothing against children, we are opposed if we are to go back to changing the principles of citizenship. Here, of course, I must look first and foremost at the Conservatives, the Fatherland and also the EKRE Group: what you are going to do now consciously voting in favour of this draft is, in fact, that you are about to change the fundamentals of citizenship policy. It is a short time since we say that there will be one group of people or residents in Estonia who receive citizenship without knowledge of the Constitution or the language. They can speak the language, of course they can. There is no obstacle to the fact that if they know the language and also know the Constitution, they will receive citizenship automatically under this bill. Indeed, there are not many of them, about 1,600 of whom we are talking about in this draft. But we're not talking about the 1600s, we're talking about scratching these principles again. That is why I do not really see the possibility that we should now start changing the fundamentals of citizenship with this decision, precisely because it is to prevent these principles from being scratched in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I ask you to think about whether this change is the best. I don't think so. I also understand the social democrats who may have wanted to go further and have proposed their own ideas that did not come into this draft. But I do not think that the Social Democrats should support this bill either, at the very least they should be neutral. But you know what you're gonna do. [[In the diner.]] Your choice. That is why I really call for this law not to be passed now and for the citizenship law of the Republic of Estonia and its fundamental principles to be maintained at the roots which, once adopted, were approved in this Chamber. Perhaps if you wish to acquire the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia and you are not a citizen of the Republic of Estonia at birth, you will need to know the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and pass the test of Estonian language. These are the two very simple principles that the Reform Party Group cannot support today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U8	Thank you. Jevgeni Ossinovski on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Hanno, thank you for your concern for the Socialists. The Social Democrats naturally support the adoption of this law, because we really believe that Estonian children could have Estonian citizenship. As a result, in fact, in the previous composition of the Riigikogu, we proposed a bill that was not realised in the previous government due to the opposition of the party Isamaa, according to which children born in Estonia and whose parents have long-term ties with the Republic of Estonia could grow as Estonian citizens. This is important because studies also show that children who grow up as citizens who have the nationality of their country since birth or immediately after birth have a stronger identity, they feel a greater internal connection with the country and society in which they grow up. Along with this, of course, come the things Mr Pevkur talked about, such as language skills and knowledge of the Constitution. Presuming it from babies is, to put it mildly, weird, though, as you can see, not impossible. Once again: we support this bill, which will help 130 children become Estonian citizens. According to our proposal, this right would be open to all [these] Estonian children, who have about 8000. When, during this government, a much smaller proposal came out of the original proposal, 1500 children as a result of a political compromise, I thought that it was a good thing that 1500 children would receive Estonian citizenship. Then it turned out that this number was cleverly divided by ten more. It was 1,500. It was 130. At the beginning of the survey, I think it took the form of a technical detail that must be abandoned before the citizenship of another country. That makes sense, there's no question. But when you look at the situation, it is clear that 90% of the children who are granted citizenship are, in fact, deprived of the possibility of realising this right. Although this was highlighted in previous readings both in the Commission and in the large Chamber, and although it seemed at the beginning that this problem was being addressed, the Socialist amendment, which would have resolved this issue and indeed given all 1500 children the opportunity to exercise their citizenship rights, was overlooked. This means that, in my opinion, it is a poor practice that we create a certain false right for a very large number of people. It's no joke in that sense. You mostly have little contact with these people. People write, talk, ask when they can apply for citizenship for their children. So you're asking what country he's a citizen of. Russian citizen. But then, unfortunately, this law will be passed, certainly a press release will be made on how it is entitled to citizenship, but practically it will not be granted citizenship as long as the child is of age and then it will be able to renounce Russian citizenship. In my opinion, it is not dignified towards these 1300 people, but, having done everything, I believe, everything that has been possible to call for a constructive solution on this issue, and since the majority of the Riigikogu has rejected these proposals, the running of the parents of these 1300 children, the mockery of them, in my opinion, remains on the conscience of the performers. But 130 children will be able to become Estonian citizens by this law without examination, which is certainly positive. Consequently, the Social Democrats also support this draft. It's a hoax. The Social Democrats did not vote against this draft at second reading, as the draft cannot be voted against at second reading. We proposed that the second reading be interrupted in order to be able to table amendments again in order to remove the absurd restriction that mocks people. Of course, we support, support and support the adoption of the law now. Certainly after this law enters into force, we will continue the parliamentary debate to correct this evil and foolish detail and actually give these 1500 children the right to become Estonian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U10	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation by the political groups; we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 58. Please take a stand and vote. 64 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 26 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U11	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like the Minister of Justice, Raivo Aegis, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U12	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You have received a draft law amending the Commercial Code prepared at the Ministry of Justice, which aims to simplify the regulation of the disposal of a part of a limited company provided for in the Commercial Code. The purpose of the draft is to remove unnecessary restrictions and formalities for the disposal of shares in a private limited company and to allow for faster and more flexible legal turnover of the shares. The current law provides for a notarial formal requirement for the transfer and pledge of shares, which makes the transaction time-consuming and requires the parties to the transaction to be present personally at the Estonian notary. In particular, it makes it difficult for investors with a foreign background to engage in entrepreneurship. The current regulation does not encourage the growth of local companies and the involvement of investors, thus weakening the competitiveness of the Estonian business environment and falling international reputation. In practice, this means that many companies that started in Estonia have already moved to countries where the requirements for such transactions are less stringent. Main changes made to the draft. First, the formal requirement for the transfer and pledge of part will be abolished. This means that the formal requirement for notarial proof of the transfer and pledge of all the shares of the limited liability companies will be abolished and the commitment transaction will be free of form. A commitment transaction is a part of a sale and gift contract, as well as any other arrangement that obliges the transfer or acquisition of a part. For example, option contracts for the transfer of shares to employees. The Company Law Review Group has also found that the notarial formality requirement applicable to the commitment transaction, which is the strictest of the formal requirements of the transaction, is not justified and prevents the turnover of the shares. Since the commitment transaction does not result in changes to the shareholders' list and its validity does not affect the validity of the disposal transaction, legal certainty would not be reduced as a result, but the civil turnover of the shares would be significantly simplified. Secondly, private limited liability companies with a share capital of over EUR 25000 are given the possibility to establish, by virtue of their statutes, either the freedom to dispose of a share or the freedom to pawn a pledge. The freedom of form for the ordering operation must be established in the statutes of the private limited liability company and all existing shareholders, 100% of the shareholders, must be in favour of the amendment to its statutes. The requirement for a share capital of more than EUR 25000 means that the freedom of form of the disposal transaction cannot be chosen when a private limited company is set up without a contribution. The requirement for more than a minimum share capital should also ensure that the larger limited liability company has a better chance of keeping a shareholder list. The amendment gives the shareholders a very high degree of flexibility in organising the turnover of the shares more easily and rapidly, which may result in a slight reduction in legal certainty. However, in the light of the experience of neighbouring countries, such as Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Sweden, which has not imposed a formal requirement on part of the disposal transaction, it can be said that there have been no significant problems. Thirdly, a part of the minimum value will be set at 1 cent instead of the current 1 euro, which will provide greater flexibility in determining the size of the parts. In particular, a change is necessary for private limited liability companies wishing to share participation options with employees, as well as for those wishing to raise capital in the form of convertible bonds or convertible loans. A lower denomination allows for the issue of an exact part, e.g. according to the number of years worked, and does not need to be rounded up to an integer. The list of shareholders shall be kept both by the law in force and, in the case of amendments to the draft, by the management board of the GmbH. The draft specifies the obligations relating to the list of shareholders. Shareholders shall be required to inform the management board of the change of shareholder or the occurrence of the transfer. The management board of a limited-liability company shall be obliged to notify the business register without delay of any changes to the shareholders' list if the transactions are not carried out through a notary or securities register. The obligation to notify is important for those private limited liability companies that introduce a form-free disposal transaction under the statutes, as the commercial register does not receive any information about these transactions elsewhere. In addition, it provides for the registration in the commercial register of the fact that the articles of association have waived the formal requirement of the disposal transaction, which is an essential part of the information to the acquirer before the transaction is made. The amendments proposed in the draft act make it considerably easier to regulate the disposal of the share of the company. The necessary changes to the Business Register Information System for their implementation are feasible for the entry into force of the Act on 1 July 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U13	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! Basically, it is a step in the right direction, but it has been opposed by notaries, above all because they have pointed out that it still somewhat reduces legal certainty. My question is that the notaries have proposed as an alternative the long-distance truth that will enter into force from 1 February and the so-called e-notar 3. To what extent could these two alleviate this really existing problem in the disposal of parts? Is this not enough and should we take the step that the bill proposes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U15	Thank you for your question. We have been debating this legal certainty, but, as I have pointed out here, our immediate neighbours in Scandinavia, as in Latvia and Lithuania, our southern neighbours do not have so strictly regulated these matters, there are no mandatory formal requirements, and there has not been any indication that there would have been a significant impact of illegal takeovers or other transactions as a result of legal certainty in the disposal of parts of private companies. This is about the side of legal certainty. With regard to the House of Notaries, I also referred to it as the second point that the freedom of form of the disposal transaction is possible if the initial capital or share capital of the private limited company is at least EUR 25000. The second condition is clearly that all shareholders must agree that such a freedom of form will be established. The third condition is that it must also be clearly stated in the statutes. So there, shareholders themselves take on a certain obligation and responsibility to keep the list of shareholders correctly and to notify the list of shareholders correctly. When we talk about this part capital requirement of EUR 25000, when an estimated 800000 companies have been registered in Estonia, this is the most common form of enterprise in the Republic of Estonia, this share capital requirement of EUR 25000 leads to the possibility of freedom of form of disposal transaction to about 10%. So it's going to significantly reduce the circle that can make its own deals like this. It is also important to note that today it is also possible to carry out these disposals and acquisitions in the securities register without notarial proof or notarial control. This is also happening under the responsibility and understanding of the shareholders themselves. So, in our view, when taking all these aspects together, legal certainty should not be affected, although we admit that there is a certain hypothetical risk here. But certainly, compared to the time when these strict formalities were introduced, both business culture and general compliance in the Republic of Estonia have improved considerably. We believe that there will not be a serious setback to 'law compliance' and the legal certainty of private companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U16	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Justice, help me, help me understand! We are currently processing the draft law amending the Commercial Code, initiated by the Government of the Republic, i.e. draft law 117. The next item is the draft law amending the Commercial Code, the Proof Act and the Notary's Payment Act, initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee 101. Are these drafts related to each other, are they in conflict? How am I supposed to act like a person who doesn't have a lawyer's degree? I'll hear the explanations. Would it be conceivable that these drafts become one, or do they remain [separately], in conflict or in harmony? What position has the Government of the Republic taken on the next draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U18	Thank you for your question. I'll start at the end. The Government of the Republic did not consider it necessary to take a position on the draft initiated by the Riigikogu, as it is a sovereign right of the Riigikogu to initiate and process drafts. What about consistency or divergence? In certain respects, these two drafts are fully consistent. It must be said, however, that the draft initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs, as the number shows, was initiated earlier and is significantly more ambitious. I mean, not more ambitious, but the scope of this draft is much wider. In analysing this situation, we concluded that not all these draft ambitions or the actions expected in the draft could be carried out within this deadline as envisaged by the draft proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs. There is a need to organize different registers; IT developments need to be done. That's one side. The other half is that, I recall, a review of company law was carried out in order to correct company law, which took place for years and years, the result of which was eagerly awaited. In order to prevent us from drawing up, as if, a fragment of the proposals drawn up in the course of this review of company law, the Government of the Republic decided to entrust the Ministry of Justice with the task of drafting a draft of such a volume that would not undermine the outcome of the revision and, at the same time, be enforceable by the deadline, with the ambition by which the draft should be adopted. As regards the future fate of the two drafts, whether they are combined or partly merged, I am indebted to the answer. This needs to be decided by the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U19	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U20	Thank you. Good Minister of Justice! The government must have a position. The government may not have its own position on matters of the Riigikogu's home and working procedures, but in all matters concerning the organisation of state life, even if the draft comes from the parliament, the government must take a position. I'm sorry to hear you didn't do this to this bill. It is also incomprehensible to me that we are solving one issue here from two different ends, from the tail and from the head. But my question may be going in that direction, which is the government's position today with regard to keeping a shareholder register. When I try to compare these two drafts, I understand that one of the main changes is whether the list of shareholders is held by the State or by the shareholders themselves. It's a fundamental difference. But the question is what these concerns are about making this shareholder register legal. Today, too, the list of shareholders must be on the register of companies, because otherwise, for example, it would not be possible to make changes to the board of directors.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U21	Thank you. The business register does indeed have a list of shareholders, but it does not have such legal status in the sense that it is not legal, it is informative. When these transactions are carried out at the notary, the notary transmits the information to the commercial register and is simply an informative entry. What's the problem? The concern is just that we have a lot of these private limited companies, as I said, registered ca 800000 (I can't say the exact number, maybe ten or a hundred here and there), but it's clear that some of them are very active, high turnover, high capital, some of them "business" is very small. The will and ability to keep these lists on our own and to submit data to the business register are certainly different. There is a clear distinction between the draft law and the fact that at least this company must have the ability to hold a larger share capital, EUR 25000, which could presumably mean that it is an active, viable private limited-liability company that is interested in having a proper list of shareholders and submitting it to the commercial register, which in fact, when we are talking about acquiring shares, gives potential investors legal certainty to enter into this transaction.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U22	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U23	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Am I right to understand that, at the moment, one of the necessary criteria is the share capital of EUR 25000? If so, how long does it have to be on the account of this private limited company?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U24	Thank you for your question. No, the deadline for this EUR 25000 share capital is not laid down by law. The assumption is that, if there is an amendment to the statutes with the consent of 100% of the shareholders, it will be there at that moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U25	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! For the sake of the tenogram: you have twice named the number of private limited companies 800000, as far as I know it's actually 200,000. I think it was a little bit of a glitch. But my question is, actually, if the formal requirement for notarial proof is lost, what form requirements will remain? Or may the disposal of parts also take place by "spoken agreement"?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U27	Thank you for your question. Yes, thank you for the clarification, for the correction. Each transaction is preceded by an oral agreement, but the transfer of private limited liability companies must still be registered after the transaction has taken place on that same list. If it is form-free, the management board of the private limited company must keep that list itself and submit these changes to the commercial register. So if it were quite the case that no trace is left behind, there's just an oral transaction between two people and the money goes from hand to hand or from bank account to bank account, then it wouldn't give the shareholders and management of the private company legal certainty that they really have an objective picture. In the same way, if in this way they... I don't know what kind of deal you'd call them, free trust deals like this. It certainly does not provide any legal certainty to potential investors that their shares will be dealt with in a targeted way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U28	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U29	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you for a very thorough explanation! Am I right to understand that the next draft, which is actually also a draft of the Commercial Code [of amendment], but which is initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs, this more ambitious draft is not actually feasible by the deadline and that its great ambition is grounded by the draft that you have tabled by the government? I will probably not be able to support the draft Committee on Legal Affairs when it is so ambitious but has unrealistic deadlines.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U30	Thank you. This was indeed one of the reasons, precisely as regards the development of these various entries in the register within the deadline set for that purpose. But the second reason, as I said, was that a review of company law was conducted over several years. We also did not think it right that too much of the whole revision package would be taken out and processed at an early pace. This could have a significant impact on the completion of the entire draft on the basis of this revision package. This may simply not be very favourable to the final realisation of the revision. We have just pointed out the'minimum' here, but this is the maximum that can be achieved today and that would meet this objective. In fact, both the Riigikogu turned to the Legal Affairs Committee and the ministries to our "start-up community" or start-ups. This appeal took place on 3 September 2019, but what was their 'ambition' or purpose is, in our view, largely satisfied, and that is precisely the simplification of the disposal transactions to involve foreign investors. We need to understand very clearly that the greatest objective of this draft is precisely that the involvement of foreign investors in Estonia's start-up business is as easy as possible, so that we do not put ourselves under further obstacles in competition with our closest neighbours, Finland, Sweden and the southern neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania. According to start-up companies, it is already the case that several companies have decided that the company that was created in Estonia at the time has been moved to our neighbouring country to ensure the ease of transactions, where the requirements for the freedom of form do not apply and it is considerably smoother and faster to carry out these transactions. Estonia's competitiveness in this start-up business market must be ensured.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U31	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have also pointed out in this draft the risk of undesirable effects associated with abandoning some of the formalities for disposal, but I do not see a possible new risk of economic crime in this list of risks. In other words, the fact that certain persons who own a private limited company freely transfer this part to a "tanker" while themselves carry out transactions everywhere under the name of a private limited company and, if there is a "time of liability," the actual owner of the limited company indicates that the data in the commercial register is merely informative and the tank was not formalised.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U33	Thank you. We admit that legal certainty can be damaged in some respects, at least hypothetically. As I pointed out here, indeed, in the early nineties and mid-1990s, such company takeovers and such crime were completely present and created problems. Then the laws were changed, these formalities were introduced, the situation improved with the obligation of notarial proof. But since then, a lot of water has flowed into the sea, and our business culture, business culture and general compliance have also greatly improved over this period on the basis of statistical indicators. That has to be taken into account. Secondly, it is the same as with our closest neighbours and with other countries where such freedom of form is. It has not been observed that this has led to significant problems with the growth of economic crime or crime at all or in support of crime. So you have to keep up with the requirements of time in a certain sense, because, let's say, at the time when these formalities and this notarial proof obligation were introduced, no one had ever heard of start-up entrepreneurship or start-up. After all, there has now been a change of dimension, a new form of enterprise on the platform or a new method has come into our business. This must be taken into account in the same way and one step must be taken so that we do not lag behind other countries in overall market competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U34	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U35	Thank you. I have to ask you a more specific question. In view of the fact that I have been in contact with a criminal mindset for 24 years because of my previous profession, I would not like to be very optimistic about the fact that time has gone on. Every time comes with new misdemeanors. This draft could even lead to such a level that if we have it all right in Estonia, so-called visitors from other countries of the European Union will take advantage of this opportunity. There would be such a request that you also analyse at this level this undesirable risk, impact or assessment in order to find out also how serious your views are and how valid your views are at the moment in terms of changing its timing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U36	Thank you for your question. Once again, when drawing up this draft, it was a concession that a certain risk might hypothetically increase. What it will grow to, what it will become, it will still have to be shown by business practice in the future. But certainly, we cannot deny that, even when there was a formal requirement and a duty to prove notarial, both in the event of an obligation transaction and in the case of an order transaction, economic crimes were committed and private limited companies were taken over, tanks and other illegal techniques were used. It is not possible to provide 100% legal certainty in one way or another, even in the case of the introduction of the most stringent requirements. They still find that hole or slot where you can crawl through and commit an offence. Rather, we need to look at the fact that our law enforcement authorities, which have to detect these offences, also have this capacity in terms of both resources and experience and knowledge. Well, it's kind of a complex subject, it needs a complex approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U37	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U38	At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 20 January, two similar drafts were on the agenda: 117 initiated by the Government of the Republic and 101 initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Both drafts address the same problem. The Minister of Justice has given a very good overview of the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic. The debate in the committee was very thorough; I am dealing with a few aspects here. Firstly, the main debate focused on the differences between the two drafts. There are two main differences. Draft 117 of the Government of the Republic has a minimum share capital of EUR 25000 for which part of the disposal operations may be carried out without confirmation by the notary. There is no limit to the second bill. There are also different deadlines for the state to be prepared to introduce these changes. In addition, there was talk about what are legal risks. The issue of tankers was also mentioned in this debate, and Kert Kingo, in the Commission, touched on this issue. The Minister of Justice replied that he felt that the situation had changed a lot in the last 20 years and he did not believe that this change made the business landscape a Wild West. Decisions were taken at the end (consensually): it was decided to propose that 117 of the draft be placed on the agenda by 28 January, to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and to propose that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 11 February 2020. It was decided to appoint me as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U39	Thank you. You have questions too. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U40	Thank you. Good waitress! What is the position of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the further processing of the two drafts? Have you really agreed on this to unite them? Are you sure about this right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U41	Something can be done with these drafts when both first readings are finished. The general idea in the Commission was that it could go on with a single draft, whether they would be merged or based on one of them and the other would not be processed further. But no such decisions can be made until the first reading is completed, which is why both drafts have been sent to the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U42	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. We can go to the negotiations. Toomas Kivimägi, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U43	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! Right from the start: the Reform Party Group supports this draft. The main argument, however, is that all countries in the world are competing for capital. It is not hard to think that if we make it difficult to raise capital, especially foreign capital, it is not enough that it may be very easy to set up a business. If the involvement of foreign capital is a very complicated procedure, which requires physical arrival in Estonia, then obviously we are not competitive compared to many countries where such formal requirements have not been imposed. However, I would not underestimate the introduction of a notarial formality 20 years ago. Indeed, business culture and business environment were radically different from what it is today. I think it was the right and justified decision in its time, but today the situation has really changed a lot. As the Minister also mentioned, even this introduction of a notarial formality did not rule out abuses at all. Of course, we also recognise that legal certainty is somewhat affected by the approval of this draft. But in fact, there is still a huge amount of money on the other side, both in the form of investments and capital and, in fact, later in the form of the tax revenues of the Estonian state. It is estimated that, as I recall last year, our start-up entrepreneurs, who have raised this problem, involved an amount of EUR 300 million in foreign capital. Clearly, everyone understands that this is definitely a growing amount of time. If we still leave a very complex regulation for the disposal of parts (through which foreign capital, above all, takes place in start-ups), then there is clearly a very considerable risk that these start-ups, private companies, will move to another country. The background system is also very important to us. The explanatory memorandum to the same draft states that there is no such notarial requirement for the disposal of shares in Latvia and Lithuania, as well as in Finland and Sweden. Perhaps at least this part of the raising of capital is already considerably easier than in Estonia. Consequently, I believe that the abolition of such a formal requirement is justified in every way. All the more so as I certainly do not want to underestimate the initiative of the Committee on Legal Affairs to find a solution to this problem. The number of the bill.101 also shows that the Committee on Legal Affairs was very active in seeking a solution to this problem, but we really do recognise the government today and support the draft proposed by the government. That, above all, maybe for one reason. While the draft initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs really provided an opportunity to abolish the formal requirement of notarial proof for all private limited liability companies of the order of 200000, the draft proposed by the Government of the Republic set the limit that the share capital of these private limited liability companies must exceed EUR 25000 in order for this possibility to occur at all. You understand (this has already been said theoretically) that 10% of 200000 companies with equity capital above EUR 25000 are in the order of 10%. The second reason we support the government bill is a bit questionable. It is incomprehensible to me that the state maintains a register of parts within the commercial register which does not actually have a legal meaning. The question is, why do we have to do it? This was the second nuance which the draft proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs aimed at ensuring that the register of parts held at the commercial register could have legal implications. Today, as surprising as it may be, it doesn't really have one. But I very much hope that, as the review of company law is under way, as the Minister mentioned, we will definitely come back to this company law. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U44	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U45	We'll come back to this company law later. I would ask the Minister of Justice seriously to consider how complex this is and how much additional costs this would mean for the state if the register of parts held at the register actually had legal meaning. It doesn't really exist today. The next nuance that I would like to mention in this draft, and which I think is also a little that should make us cautious, is that the formal requirement for notarial proof is not absolute today either. There is another way: companies whose shares are registered in the securities register do not need to be certified notarised when transferring shares through the securities register. Looks like it's very natural. Then why don't we use it? But in order to do this, two things are needed: to open a securities account and to open a current account. Opening a securities account is not a big problem, but, surprise-surprisingly, a big problem is opening a bank account. I recall the discussions in this Chamber when, as I recall, we approved that a foreign citizen does not necessarily have to come to Estonia to open a current account, for example. The idea and purpose of the matter was to relax these requirements and liberalise the opening of the current account in Estonia. I would argue, having only recently met the people of the Banking Union, that we have made it much more difficult to open a bank account and that it is much harder to do than it was perhaps a few or three years ago. Yeah, we know the reason and the background, too, but it seems to me very much that we're about to cross the line here. We are trying to mitigate all risks to zero and as a result the opening of the current account is extremely complicated for an alien, but, surprise-surprisingly, also for an Estonian citizen who basically has a constitutional right, but it is also very difficult for him to open the current account. So this could be another way, to consider where this is the right place of risk, which conditions and which requirements should still be set to allow the account to be opened or not. So once again: we find that the inclusion of foreign capital is unavoidable in view of the small size of the Estonian economy. The accumulation of our own capital is too small, we need foreign capital, still above all in cases where we want to be big players in the foreign market. This draft certainly simplifies the integration of foreign capital into the Estonian economy, and the tax revenues of the Estonian state are actually increasing. So the Reform Party Group supports the draft proposed by the Government of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U46	Thank you. Siim Kisler on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U47	Manager! Honourable Riigikogu, when representatives of the start-up community approached the Ministry of Justice in September to initiate the simplification of the regulation of some disposals, this proposal certainly did not come from an empty position, due to the practical need. That is why I recognise the work of both the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, and the reaction has actually been relatively rapid in Estonian terms. Although it seems already that a few months have gone by and we are very proud of the success of our start-up community. [[???Hõige rõdult: 'Palun rääkige nii, et siia ka kuulda on!'???]] I'm sorry! I think I'm talking about the microphone, but I'll put the microphone closer to me. (From the balcony: 'I can't hear you, honestly. ') Okay. I may not be able to speak as loud as you. (Sighs on the balcony.)
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U48	Ma'am, calm down!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U49	But I hope you can hear the guests. We have been very proud and continue to be proud of the success of our start-up community. But it also requires the state, has so far called for and will continue to require flexibility and a rapid response if necessary. We must not lose competitiveness compared to neighbouring countries. Without delving into the legal details, I agree with the positions of the Minister of Justice, and I largely agree with those of the previous speaker, the representative of the Reform Party, will not repeat them. Although providing its shareholders with a very high degree of flexibility to organise some of their civil turnover more quickly may result in a reduction of legal certainty, I would stress that the choice is left to the shareholders themselves under this proposal. They can choose another, safer way. I think it is important that both options exist in Estonia. This great legal certainty, too, has so far been our advantage, our economic advantage, we should not lose it. Shareholders can make their own choice as it is more practical for them. If they decide to take some of this risk, it is important that it is their choice and an informed choice. It is very important that the explanation work is sufficient in this case too, so that shareholders understand what they are doing, they are foreign investors or domestic investors. As regards this issue, which went through the discussion of economic crimes, I would stress that the management of the private company is still responsible for the activities of the private company and, in certain cases, probably the board, not the shareholder, who is not actively involved in the decision-making process. There are no changes to the registration of the board here. So I think it makes sense for us to move forward with these changes, which are realistic and feasible by the deadline set for this, by 1 July this year, so that we can get them done, so that we can solve the practical problems of our start-up community and they can involve foreign investors precisely through Estonian companies and stay in Estonia. So the Isamaa Group also very much supports this draft and we hope that we will be able to adopt it quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U50	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U51	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Working changes, entrepreneurship changes in the same way. Technology also enables us to create products and services in Estonia that were not possible in the past. But there are also undoubtedly new risks, whether we are talking about money laundering, virtual currencies, the use of tankers, fraud, fraudulent takeovers. Undoubtedly, the opportunities offered by these technologies create opportunities for everyone, including those whose goal may not be very benevolent. But as with the changed work, we cannot force people to work back from nine to five with an open-ended contract with one employer for decades, nor can we force entrepreneurs to act physically in Estonia and be here on the ground; we cannot believe that companies are owned only by persons of Estonian citizenship, who also have easy opening a bank account and a securities account in the current money laundering requirements. So the concern that has arisen is, on the one hand, perfectly logical. When creating the Commercial Code, the term "Fiduciary Entrepreneurship" probably did not exist in Estonian. We could not foresee the need for such a change. Now that we know, a sensible solution should be found. There is no need to be afraid and to stick to this old form because of these new risks. We have very safe means of identification, e-residency, the possibility of keeping registers so-, so- and thirdly. We should use the strengths of our own digital state and e-state to create an environment in which it is possible to dispose of parts without any physical demonstration and to meet the expectations of the business community. I welcome, in itself, the fact that both the Government and the Committee on Legal Affairs take this concerns of businesses very seriously and that the drafts have moved forward quickly. However, neither of these drafts is ideal. Whether we're talking about the opinion of the House of Notaries, bailiffs, the start-up community, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, everyone brings out very sensible points. They are looking for a balance in how we can have reliable information about the real beneficiaries and the owner would actually be the owner of how to reduce the risk of fraud and, at the same time, it would be possible to dispose of parts in such a way as to meet the interests of entrepreneurs, even if the owners are not school brothers or neighbors who can easily agree on a time to go to the notary. So undoubtedly the aim is to support entrepreneurship, to keep pace with development, to make the most of the technological opportunities that our secure e-state offers. But I think that these two drafts must continue to work and find a compromise. Neither of them actually mitigates the maximum risk and does not meet the expectations that undertakings have with regard to these changes. I think we can do it better, safer. I hope that the practice of presenting such competing drafts will actually be over. We will engage, we will discuss and we will be able to find a solution within a few months, which is better than either of the drafts we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U52	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The negotiations are over. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 117. Thus, the first reading has been completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 11 February at 4 p.m. This item is therefore under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U53	We will proceed to today's third item on the agenda: first reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code, the Proof Act and the Notary's Payment Act 101 initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. I ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U54	Since I am both the initiator of the draft and the representative of the lead committee here, I am talking about both the draft and the course of the procedure. But in general, since draft 101, initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs, solves exactly the same problem as the previous draft, which was initiated by the government, I may not go into the content very much. The difference between these two drafts is that the draft 101 initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs may be more acceptable to start-ups. The government's draft is more conservative and the government believes that the changes proposed in the draft Committee on Legal Affairs may not be feasible by the deadlines. This obviously means that if the first reading is completed on both drafts, we will work with them in the Commission and there will be some sort of intermediate result, which I hope is the best. The debate included a draft of 101 in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 20 January 2020. This debate was not long, as most of the topics had already been discussed in the context of the previous draft. We touched on this problem, to which Mr Kivimägi referred, that as Estonian banks are not very happy to open accounts for foreigners, foreign investors cannot use the Estonian securities register, which would exempt them from notarial confirmation in the case of investment transactions. Unfortunately, there is nothing the Commission can do about that. In addition, we have briefly discussed that the House of Notaries is preparing an online authentication environment, which could again be one of the potential solutions so that people do not have to come to Estonia to make a deal with the notary. But unfortunately, this environment is only for the people of Estonia, for those who have either an Estonian passport, an Estonian ID card or an e-resident ID card, which, unfortunately, many foreign investors do not have. As a result, the Commission considered that the direction to solve the problem was the right one. I hope we can finish this bill this year. What is the end result is now difficult to predict. I guess we should find a compromise between the first reading and the second reading. However, the Commission's decisions were such: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 28 January, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 11 February 2020 and to appoint me as rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U55	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I was very surprised to hear that you had published a surprise on your Facebook page when the Social Democrats and Reform Party issued a very similar draft one day, which concerned making 1 June the flag day of Children's Protection Day. Why was I surprised? Therefore, any member of the Riigikogu may initiate the [draft]. It would have been great if you'd put in such a bill that June 1 would have become the flag day. My question is that today we are dealing with the two drafts of the coalition. Do you think it shows the strength or weakness of the coalition? You wrote on your Facebook wall that the handling of the two above-mentioned drafts, which concerned the flag day, shows the weakness of the opposition. What today, then, does the handling of these two drafts, the strength of the coalition, the weakness, or just the fact that there are many nice people and nice thoughts?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U57	Thank you. I thank you very much for being a fan of me on Facebook, but if you're not, you'll be able to press the spots and get to know the future news much more conveniently. However, as regards the procedure for these drafts, for the sake of history, this was the case. The Committee on Legal Affairs initiated a draft of 101, to which the government reacted with its draft, which is actually very positive, because indeed we have the hope that we will achieve the result very quickly. Unfortunately, I have not been familiar with these two [flag days] drafts, and I am actually in favour of children having their own day of celebration. But the two drafts I'm talking about here aren't exactly the same. The difference is that there was no requirement in the draft Committee on Legal Affairs for the size of the share capital and, in addition, there were no time limits. The fact that both drafts are at first reading in this Chamber is the only way we can work with both of them. If they were really quite the same, then perhaps it would make sense to exclude one of them and go on with the other. But they're not the same. Merging the bill is only possible after the first reading, not before, unfortunately. With this, I expect, the Committee on Legal Affairs will work in the future, and we will get to second reading with an optimal result.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U58	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Several groups spoke in support of the previous draft. We did not hear the speech of the representative of the Central Party Group; perhaps it will follow this draft. What is the position of the central fraction? Which bill do you support?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U60	I could have made a speech, but maybe there would be a little too many speeches for a day. The mid-group supports this direction and the mid-group's proposal is to support both drafts. What happens after the first reading is my decision-making power, you and the other members of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Since I am also the initiator, or representative of the Commission, I can share a personal opinion. I think that the deadlines must certainly be based on the government's point of view. If they say they're not gonna make it sooner, then that's what they're gonna do. I believe that the main debate must be about whether EUR 25000 share capital is a reasonable provision. In fact, a private limited liability company may make a contribution and the next day may also make a distribution in addition to a part of the disposal transaction, which I believe does not fulfil the purpose which the government has been placed here, but a slightly larger share capital may be a threshold which would be sufficient, perhaps not entirely unconditional. But this, I think, is the subject of future discussions, and I hope that we will make it to second reading quite quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U61	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U62	Thank you very much. Thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that you support the celebration of 1 June, the flag day of Child Welfare Day. Only I would like to ask your opinion, too, that if you had looked at the two drafts submitted by the Social Democrats and the Reform Party before commenting, you would have noticed a slight difference there too. The purpose is the same, but the laws that were to be amended were one and the other were added. So there was a difference. Here too, after the first reading, there is an opportunity to join these drafts nicely and to hope that there will be support from the floor across political parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U63	Thank you. And the question? There's no question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U64	Thank you. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You raised an interesting question that went through the hall earlier. Tell me if I'm right. I would argue that if a share capital of more than 25000 is set up, but in a week's time, figuratively speaking, the distribution or reduction of the share capital is made, then the possibility of getting rid of the formal requirement for notarial proof will be abolished. Could my statement be correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U66	Yeah, your point may be correct, but I can't give you the head. It is certainly an important aspect that this non-notarial transaction can take place during the period when the share capital is 25000. This makes this requirement quite meaningless, in my opinion, even though 'thinkless' is perhaps a bit harsh, but he probably doesn't fulfil that objective. At the same time, I understand the logic of the initiator of the bill, without a deposit, you can make a company today if the share capital is less than that. It's like a real deposit. At least that's the money that this person needs, or these people have to find somewhere for even a short time. Obviously, this restriction is considerable, but whether it serves a purpose, I am not sure of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U67	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I ask you this: did your committee also discuss the possibility of economic crimes in connection with this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U69	Yes, this debate took place both before and after the first reading. The main threat is the same issue of tankers, which was raised a few times in this Chamber. There is this danger today. Tank may well come to the notary, we know quite a few of these cases from recent history. As mentioned, similar arrangements have already been established in the United States, such as the State of Delaware, Finland, and Latvia. There, too, is the register manager's own company and there is no need to make deals with the notary. The state of Delaware, for example, has not been in the lower half of the world's rankings for its economic discipline, and Finland, too, may not have had very big problems. However, it is a question of choice for the legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U70	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Since you have also discussed the risks of potential economic crimes, can you or can you point out how much can this debate lead to an increase in the percentage of such crime?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U72	Thank you. I probably can't do a head count like that. However, I do think that since both drafts improve Estonia's economic situation and when the economy grows, people in general feel like they are better, and this is more likely to lead to a drop in the number of crimes, because people just have a better life, they don't have to steal, they can find other outputs for themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-28_U73	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the draft 101 be completed. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 11 February at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 11.24 a.m.
