ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the 6th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of passing on drafts and enquiries. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs Heili Tõnisson, has a bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic shall initiate the draft Act of Accession to the Meteorological Convention. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. The draft has been forwarded to the Riigikogu electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U3	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're going to do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U4	81 members of the Riigikogu are present and 20 are missing. I am voting on the approval of the 6th working week agenda of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U5	There are 85 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U6	Now we are going to the first and the only item on the agenda today. This is the first reading of the organic farming law initiated by the Government of the Republic and of the Act amending the Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Law 260. First, the initiator of the draft, up to 20 minutes, then the representative of the commission, as well as up to 20 minutes, and then all members of the Riigikogu can ask up to two oral questions to the rapporteurs. I'd like the Minister of Rural Affairs, Arvo Aller, to be here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of Rural Affairs has prepared a draft law on organic farming and on plant reproductive and plant variety rights. The aim of the draft is to bring the laws into line with the European Union organic regulation applicable from 1 January 2022 and to make amendments to the new agency, the Agriculture and Food Administration, based on the Agricultural Authority and the Food and Veterinary Office on 1 January 2021. Persons marketing small quantities of non-packaged organic products shall be exempt from the obligation to recognise the establishment. From now on, they will have to inform the Agriculture and Food Board of their activities. They shall be recorded in the organic register. In addition to the collection of data on organic seed and seed potatoes, the Agriculture and Food Office shall in future organise the collection of data on organic or in-conversion plant reproductive material, organic animals or juveniles of organic aquaculture animals. The purpose of the data collection shall be to obtain information on the availability of organic inputs on the market and, on that basis, to authorise or refuse the use of plant reproductive material from conventional production or the introduction of animals on the holding. As a new option under the EU organic regulation, the placing on the market of approved organic heterogeneous propagating material within the Agriculture and Food Office is authorised. As a result, the Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Law is supplemented by the provision that organic heterogeneous propagating material included in the catalogue may be produced, marketed and imported in addition to certified seed and propagating material. In order to prevent fraudulent use of the label referring to organic farming, the grounds for repealing the recognition decision shall be supplemented and the financial penalty for the informed marketing of the conventional product referring to organic farming shall be increased. According to the amendment, the decision to recognise the holding of the Agriculture and Food Board may also be revoked if the person has committed a serious, repeated or persistent non-compliance with the requirements of organic farming. According to the current law, this could only be done in the case of repeated non-compliances where there was no obstacle to the use or supervision of a fertiliser or plant protection product which was not authorised intentionally in organic farming. The law will enter into force on 1 January 2022 as the European Union organic regulation will apply from 1 January 2022. The amendments relating to the restructuring of the two agencies shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U8	Ivar Padar, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U9	Thank you. Mr. Minister! It's a pretty interesting thing, this heterogeneous propagating material. It kind of expands the possibilities of organic production. But can you tell me more about it? What could be the examples in Estonia of heterogeneous propagating material with which our organic producers could enter the market?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U10	Thank you. Heterogeneous in the sense that it is not a particular variety, it is a material with specific characteristics, such as barley or oats, and if it has a uniform consistency and meets heterogeneous conditions, it can be used to produce organic products. For now, if you want to use material or seed for normal production, you'll have a permit from the Agricultural Office. If you have a homogeneous heterogeneous material that you can use for sowing, it may also be recognised as being used in organic production and you do not have to look for any far-off breeders and seed producers. This will certainly improve the situation of organic producers and small producers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U11	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U12	Good manager! Good minister! Can you tell us what, for example, the Estonian Plant Education Institute is now getting better, whether they have new rights under this law, or whether there are opportunities to create something in plant breeding? What changes in Estonian agriculture in general are due to this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U13	Thank you. The Plant Production Institute is involved in plant breeding. This law makes it easier for organic farmers to use seed which is homogeneously heterogeneous, be it cereals, potatoes or similar. This will facilitate the economic activity of organic farmers, organic producers in agriculture. It does not bring any change in the context of the Plant Farming Institute, but the situation of a normal organic producer makes it easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U14	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to continue a little bit with Ivar Padari because I didn't get a pretty accurate answer, and I'm going to try to make it even easier. Does this ensure that the farmer grows heterogeneous potatoes, takes part in potatoes, leaves them for sowing, and places them again next spring? Explain it to me, for example, as if to a child, what might happen in that field.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U16	Thank you. This should happen and be done in such a way that the organic producer grows potatoes, then a representative of the Agricultural Board is invited to come and see if it is heterogeneous, i.e. whether the potato material can be evenly identified as being the same thing. In that case, the Office shall authorise it to be used as seed for sowing in the following year. The representative of the Office shall examine on the spot and decide whether the farmer can use the same material as seed next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U17	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U18	Thank you. Maybe you could explain it a little bit more. I mean, the potato is a potato, but the potato has a variety and the variety owns it. Now, if a farmer starts to reproduce some sort of variety himself, will the holder of the variety be deprived of money, or how about it? A few years ago, in this very Chamber, we debated this issue at length. Isn't there a situation where the breeders get in their pants? Or does a farmer have to pay some money to breeders for the propagation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U19	In the case of a variety of varieties, the producer, i.e. the grower, must pay a licence fee to the breeder. Now, what we're talking about right now is heterogeneous reproductive material. We cannot call this a variety, it is a homogeneous material that can be used in organic production and organic farming to make it easier for organic producers to grow their produce. The variety shall be such that the same material or the same product is entered on the variety sheet as heterogeneous propagating material. It's one year there, and then it's gone out of that variety page, so it's a one-year operation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U20	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U21	Thank you. The same theme would continue if we were thinking, for example, of such varieties of the beginning of the 20th century or, say, of Estonian times, which farmers occasionally revive or revive in this case, is it possible, if these varieties are now revived and brought back into the game, to market the heterogeneous propagating material produced on the farm outside the farm as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U22	Thank you. If it is recognised and [the propagating material] is heterogeneous, it may market small packages as organic products up to 5000 kilograms per year, 14 kg per day, i.e. up to EUR 20000 per year, and that is the end of that period. But if he wants to do some major damage, he certainly doesn't have that chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U23	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It's getting more interesting. Is it really true that you can sell 14 kilos a day? Yeah, well, you can sell to a neighborhood or neighbors. But the second question is: if 5,000 kilos of crop can now be sold per year, does the customer who buys really have people who still remember these older varieties and are very nice when they are offered, have the right to carry out some kind of control? What if it's a genetically modified potato or some other food? Where does he get such objective information?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U25	Thank you. It is still a plant material used in organic farming. We are not talking about conventional production here, there is no such possibility. We are only talking about the material used in organic production, which can also be sold by small packers in the amount I said 5 tonnes per year. Dividing it to days is, yes, 14 kilos a day, but there's also a turnover limit, that's 20,000 euros a year. They certainly cannot be genetically modified foods, because they are organic products, which are also included in the register of the Office of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U26	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U27	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! Let me ask you a little bit expanded. Tell me how much of our agricultural production is mild and how much of this mild is actually mild. For years, only 10% has been said here, but how is it really, have these figures changed and how much?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U28	Thank you. In 2019 there was 22% organic land in Estonia from all agricultural land. This is very close to 25% of the European Union's baseline plate strategy. So Estonia is very close, and with this 22%, we are the second largest in the European Union. As far as hectares are concerned, we have 224000 hectares of organic land for which support has been requested from the PRIA and also from organic farming.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U29	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! This has nothing to do with the actual draft, but I would like to ask whether you see the continued increase in organic area in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U31	Thank you. The aim is, of course, to increase organic production and organic production and, if one of the grounds for the increase is area-related growth, yes, this is taken into account in the next period, with the addition of new hectares.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U32	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U33	Thank you. I understand that the subject is a little different, but I am interested in just how much of this mild, which has been recognised as mild, is actually mild now. What's the percentage? It's just that this production isn't all mild, even though it's written and admitted to being mild. Look, these things have been established that this is not really the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U34	Well, as we know, the issue is that organic support is also available to those in transition years, i.e. the first year of transition and the second year of transition. In that case, you cannot sell your produce as organic grain, but you must indicate whether it is a transitional year or not. What are these percentage ratios for the third year of transition? We did not take the first year's transitions this year, but I think that 70% have certainly gone completely soft and covered organic production.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U35	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. Thank you! Now I would like to ask Siret Kotka, Member of the Steering Committee for the Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U36	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Rural Commission dealt with this draft law on 20 October 2020. Tarmo Tamm, Merry Aart, Heiki Hepner, Kaido Hoöölson, Erkki Keldo, Urmas Kruuse, Ivari Padar and Andrus Seed took part in this meeting. The Deputy Chancellor of Food Safety Hendrik Kuusk gave an overview of the draft law on organic farming initiated by the Government of the Republic and on plant reproductive and plant variety rights. The purpose of the draft law, as the Minister has already pointed out above, is to bring the organic farming law into line with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on organic production and labelling of organic products. The deadline for implementing that Regulation shall be 1 January 2022. In addition, the draft relates to amendments concerning the merger between the Agricultural Office and the Food and Veterinary Office, as well as the establishment of a new Common Authority, the Agricultural and Food Administration. In this respect, the following decisions were taken: To appoint Siret Kotka, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs (in which there was a consensus), propose that the draft law be put on the agenda by 26 October (consensus), propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 November (as well as consensus). In consensus, Merry Aart, Heiki Hepner, Urmas Kruuse, Andrus Seed and Tarmo Tamm voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U37	Thank you, good waitress. No questions for you. We'll open negotiations if you want. But, as you can see, my fellow Members do not want to negotiate, so we will not open them. The Governing Commission's proposal is to stop reading draft 260. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 2 November at 5 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-26_U38	It is now possible for all those who wish to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. [[Hammer strike.]] There was a blow, but there are no words. Thank you! Today's trial is over.
