ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable members of the government! Let's start our briefing. And first, we're going to run a presence check! 16 members of the Riigikogu are present and 85 are absent. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg and Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller. As always, first the pre-registered questioners get the floor, they get the opportunity to clarify the question, and then there is one more question from the floor. The time allowed for the question is 2 minutes and 3 minutes for the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U2	The first question of today's Question Time will be asked by Indrek Saar and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U3	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! In recent weeks, a number of questions have been raised in the public regarding one specific donation by the Centre Party, in addition to other issues that have been raised on the issue of party funding. This concerns 50,000 donations received by the Centre Party in January and declared in April. And in May, the story came to the point that the ERJK asked the prosecutor's office to check if it was a legal donation. You've had time to get to know it now. As we have read in the press, your party's top politicians, vice-chairmen, secretary-general and several members of the board, as well as the top politicians of the Central Party in Tallinn, in one way and another, have tried to clarify the origin of this money. You have confirmed last week that there is certainly nothing criminal about this money. However, on Saturday, an article of the Estonian Express appeared and as a result you decided to return the money the next day, you changed your mind. Could you explain to us what these new facts were that you read in the article of the Estonian Express and had never heard from your party associates or perhaps the person who transferred the donation, which made you change your mind? And can you tell us clearly whose money this is now, which you have decided to return?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner, thank you for your question. You say there have been a number of questions within this 50,000. Yeah, it's true, it's been. In my opinion, the fact that the ERJK has asked the prosecutor's office to check it out, as you say, is also sensible to check these things when there are questions. Your claim was that I changed my mind, no, I haven't changed my mind. I'm in on my words today. If there was anything criminal about this donation that I know of, I wouldn't be in front of you as Prime Minister. And not through a vote of no confidence, but through a personal resignation. I don't know if there's anything criminal about this transfer. As far as I know, this is not the information that I have, and this ability that the party has to control these things. Your answer and justification for why we carried it back is the story of the Estonian Express. If I'm wrong, this Express story came out on Saturday and indicated that it was child's money. The child's money should not be used be the point of the one that was in the media. Secondly, there were unanswered questions or clues that the woman's former life partner had somehow received any benefits from the city of Tallinn in doing this transfer. There were a lot of unanswered questions, and that was why we carried it back. I have asked the Mayor of Tallinn whether the terms of the plan referred to in this article have been changed. His answer is that it has not been changed, nor is it intended to change. Whose money was that? Frankly, Mr. Indrek Saar, as far as I know, it's that woman's money. It's from this woman's bank account. The party has no further knowledge of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U5	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U6	Would you explain, however, that if this is the woman's money, what do you think it is illegal and why did you return it? That is a clarification question. But I'd like to know what you think. Given that the party law is unambiguous: only Estonian residents can receive donations from political parties, and your home party has one outstanding foreign money scandal every ten years, which was also called the church's money scandal, did you not have any safe work? Did you not think that this should be checked more closely when a statement was made and I understand that, among other things, your party's leading politicians have used it as an explanation, that the money has been given to the donor by his ex-husband, his ex-husband, who served as a result of this successful transaction abroad? Shouldn't we have checked more precisely at that point in the light of your party's previous experience with foreign money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U7	Thank you. First of all, the answer to why we carried it back. As I said, there were questions about family law, and there were other questions that I had already referred to. That was why it was my decision, in consultation with the parties' fellows, to return this money, point one. Point two, your statement or reference to events 10 years ago. It's not like I've ever hidden in front of you that the Centre Party has had problems with funding. Now it is our desire to put them behind us, and we have tried to do so. In this case too, I think we did the right thing when the money was returned. I think it was the right move, the right move. It is perfectly understandable that for the Centre Party these, let's say, requirements are also higher in public. That's what I welcome. And that was also the reason why the picture should be clear. Of course, you are very good at linking together the years 2010 and 2020. I understand, politically, why you want to do this. Now your claim that it's from somewhere, I don't know, the money received from a donation from abroad or from a non-resident, no, I don't have that kind of information. As I said, it is not possible for the party to control much more from the maker of the donation than if it is a world-view donation, whether it is personal money or why it has been given. These questions have been put to him, and there has been no scheme or initial financing from abroad, to which you are referring. If you have such information, well, you're better informed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U8	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U9	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! In your reply to Mr Indrek Saare, you replied that you were investigating in the party or whether you or anyone else were investigating the twists of this potential money or how you admitted it. The Estonian Express also spoke for receiving Tallinn's so-called potential, I don't know, favours or whatever to call them. This express article describes very nicely how a month and a half ago the deputy mayor of Tallinn met this potential person who could be behind this money. They were talking about certain developments. The same article mentions how the project was finally able to move behind the stone about a month and a half ago when the city of Tallinn issued the design conditions for the rainwater system to the developers after several years of dispute. Do you think this is a coincidence? Or have you been familiar with it? Have you asked the mayor and the deputy mayor? Have you discussed in the Management Board of the Centre Party whether the case mentioned in the Estonian Express is a coincidence, a bad timing, or do you really not see any problem here that these things may be connected?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U10	Thank you for this question. First of all, these accusations or, I don't know, the theories about this $50,000 donation have all changed in time. And those days have been, I don't know, in the last two, three months or weeks. In the meantime, I would like to add more to Indrek Island about where the Centre Party could certainly have taken one more step: yes, this question should have been in January, not at the end of May. The law does not require that this is the case, but I agree that it could have been much earlier. These decisions, in order to do this sooner in the future and to examine more closely, we have made and introduced these changes on the party's board. In answer to your question about the possible link between this donation and the city of Tallinn, I say, as I also answered Mr Indrek Saare, that I have asked the mayor of Tallinn whether the conditions of this detailed plan or this area have been changed, and the answer is: has not been changed. Of course I believe it is. If you ask whether this has anything to do with this, then, as I said, if the prosecutor's office finds that he has to initiate proceedings to that effect, he will initiate the procedure. He's gonna investigate, he's gonna have the tools. I don't have any more tools. There is only a way to ask people if you have made it in a worldview and whether it has come from your current account. These things have been asked by party representatives and he has answered: yes. But these diagrams, or these connections, I can't control them. As far as I know, there's no connection. That was also the reason why I answered the first question that, if I knew it was criminal, I would certainly not be before you today as Prime Minister, and not through mistrust, but through my personal resignation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U12	The next question will be asked by Kaja Kallas and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U13	Thank you. Prime Minister! In recent weeks, you have assured both the Riigikogu and the public that the abolition of the Political Financing Supervisory Commission was not your idea and that a donation of EUR 50000 to the Centre Party was okay. The press has refuted both claims. Now the question: can you finally tell the truth today and say that yes, the Centre Party was and is still behind the abolition of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission and you want to get rid of it, and secondly, in the case of the 50000 that the Centre Party received, this is a forbidden donation under party law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U14	Thank you. I need to correct a few things on your question so that they remain at least in the verbatim. Your claim was that I've told you that the loss of the EJC is not my idea. I have told you that the abolition of the ERJK has begun with the Riigikogu and not with the government. You know very well that this bill has the signatures of three political parties, the Centre Party, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Fatherland Party, who have been the initiators of it, point one. Point two, you say I've told you, 50,000, it's okay. That's what I said today, that if I had other information, I wouldn't be here in front of you. Point three, when you say that the truth should finally be told, I would have a very big request, Mr Kallas: tell me where I have lied. Bring me that line where I've been lying. I have said that according to my information, the donor has been spoken to, the questions have been asked, he has given the answers, it is not in any way contrary to the law, and we have finally returned that money. If you are saying that I will finally tell the truth, I really ask you: then say where I have lied or where I have shattered or said something wrong on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U15	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U16	Thank you. Well, first of all, that you are trying to say here that you do not know anything about this loss of the Political Financing Supervisory Commission, its initiation is like a decision of the Riigikogu and a decision of the Riigikogu political parties. However, you have admitted in several interviews, the head of the Coalition Council, for example when you were on the Viker Radio, that the Coalition Council has come with this decision. So it is certainly not the right thing to want to reduce yourself. Question two. Now you also said in your reply that we have finally returned this money. And that's the key spot. On 11 or 22 January, it turns out that this donation has arrived for you. The party law says that the forbidden donation must be returned immediately. Moreover, §123 (2) (7) of the Political Party Act states that a donation made through a natural person and from the property of a third party is prohibited. You have explained yourself here and said that you knew that this was a very personal story and that the money has come from somewhere else to the account of this woman and so on. That's what you're actually saying. You knew it was a third-party donation. So it's a forbidden donation in the sense of party law. Now that difference between January 22nd and June, there's a five-month difference. It is not immediately. Without delay, it would be immediately. You should have asked those questions right away, but you haven't. Are you admitting today that this is a forbidden donation within the meaning of the party law, you actually knew that, and that is why you finally wore it back, as you say, in the end we have wore it back? Why didn't you do it before?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U17	Yes, thank you. EJK, we've been playing this ping-pong with you guys, and we're gonna play tonight. Now you're telling me that I've told you, I didn't know anything about it. Of course I did. I never said that I didn't know anything about the draft ERJK. I said it wasn't my idea. But I knew about it when it was initiated. And I have also replied here in Riigikogu Question Time that my aim is to raise this quality to a higher level. You're saying this is a forbidden donation. I believe that neither you nor the Reform Party, nor I nor the Centre Party, nor any other party, will be the one who will judge and decide whether this is a forbidden donation or not a forbidden donation. I don't think you have the right to judge here. Next, your claim that if this transfer has taken place on 22 January, this is a very heavy charge against the forbidden donation. That can still be said by law enforcement authorities. If that's the case, i.e. if they say so, it's a forbidden donation. If they don't say so, it's not a forbidden donation. As I said, the so-called tools to make things clear one hundred percent and to the end, the party has little. That's why we carried it back. As I said before, I would also say to you that this contradiction with the family law, yes, it was said, that the lady who made this transfer said that it was her personal money, that it had come to support the child. And that's where the decision was finally made that we're gonna carry that money back. Of course, there are so many unanswered questions in this story, but it was the right decision in any case, I think. Today I think so, too. Now that's why we didn't do it sooner. Yes, I agree with that criticism. I'm sure I should have done it sooner and asked those questions. I also said, in reply to Mr. Island, that it certainly wasn't good to have this limp in between, for three months. But the law is that you need to check immediately, I don't think it's necessary. As far as I know, the law doesn't require that. But that doesn't mean you don't have to check right now. So when the subject came to the public, the person was contacted and communicated with, but still the questions remained in the air for us. And that's why we decided to pay back the money last Saturday, if I'm not mistaken. That money's been transferred back today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U18	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U19	Thank you. You asked me where you've been lying. Well, there are many species of lying. For example, there is confusion, there is commenting on the question, commenting on the questioner, blaming someone third and not answering them, and that's all lying. You are distracted by the question of who submitted the draft. You're the chairman of the party. You've been hiding that this is your party's most direct interest. You have talked about how you will increase the level of control if you lose the Commission, although this level says it does not correspond to its role, it even damages its core business and it does not fulfil its constitutional function. You're sneaking past all these arguments. That's lying. Please tell me if you are also making this decision that you are now agreeing on the matter because it is so embarrassing and dirty that at least you are withdrawing this draft, which currently hinders the honest supervision of political parties, because the National Audit Office cannot, according to the Constitution, exercise effective control over non-state money and because its constitutional functions, which has been described by the Supreme Court, will be damaged if it receives an assignment that is not inherent to it. Would you make your leadership decision as the leader of a party and wind up this disgusting bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U20	Thank you, Mr. Ligi. Blame first. I have not accused any people or any political party during this Question Time, and I certainly do not blame any of you on this matter. It is not my style to anyone else on this issue, which at the moment the Centre Party has a problem, point one. Point two, you say comment. Yes, of course, if there have been false statements or words in my mouth, then I will certainly reject them, just for the sake of this same verbatim. I haven't said such statements, those sentences don't belong to me. You say I've been lying about me. I'm gonna say bring me that line where I've been lying. I am also in that opinion today: to say that the National Audit Office cannot do this is, in my opinion, wrong. In my opinion, it raises him to a much higher level. Of course, I have also said in this Question Time for several weeks, and I am also saying today that, of course, the constitutional aspect must be assessed. No procedure can happen what has been claimed here to fall between two chairs. There is certainly an opportunity to extend this period of retrospect, from three years to longer. All these things are, I think, to be considered calmly. You're asking me what happens to this bill. Well, I understand that the deadline for tabling amendments to this draft is, if I am not mistaken, the beginning of next week. Well, I guess we'll have to appreciate that. It is clear that the Riigikogu will probably not sit here all summer, hardly. If this announcement yesterday is given to the lead committee, I do not know whether it has already been handed over or not, then it is unlikely that 50,000 proposals will be discussed. I don't think that makes any sense. It's understandable. I guess these management decisions must be taken when the deadline for submitting second reading amendments is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U22	Evgeni Ossinovski next asks the question and is answered by Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U23	Thank you. Dear Minister, I will continue a little bit on the same subject, but from a different angle, because the Ministry of Justice was actually very supportive and inclusive of the changes to the party law that were implemented in 2013 at the time. I was just looking at the opinion of the Ministry of Justice on the draft from 2013, where the Ministry of Justice clearly states that the changes proposed in the draft will help to make the funding of political parties more reliable and better, and will make appropriate proposals. Actually, that's the way it is. We have seen that after that other changes came into force. And, of course, after the funding scandal of another party, this time it has improved. When asked what changed between January and June, in fact, the procedure of the ERJK, which has been able to identify new circumstances, has given a completely new move to this 50,000 donation. Otherwise, the subject would have slipped into oblivion somewhere calmly. And in this context, it is very surprising to read yesterday's opinion from the Ministry of Justice on this draft of the Government of the Republic that you support the abolition of the ICTY. I understand that in this Parliament, people may have different interests and perceptions in this matter to whom the Secretary-General says, but you are the Ministry of Justice. And now suddenly, in a situation where we see that the funding monitoring body has begun to work, you admit in your letter that constitutional compliance is questionable, but you still support the dismantling of this committee. How do you explain this change in the position of the Justice Department? You supported, you were an initiator to give EJK more strength, but now you want to get rid of him.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U24	Thank you for your question. Firstly, it must start with the fact that the Ministry of Justice certainly does not support the abolition of the supervision of party funding. As has already been mentioned many times here, this bill was still motivated by the fact that this political party supervision was depoliticised in some ways, because at least indirectly at present it has a certain impact on supervision. We know that the Committee on the Monitoring of Financing of Political Parties is made up of the representatives appointed by the parliamentary parties, and that there are also very close and strong contacts with politicians in the current Commission, who are doing this work there. Of course, it can be said that the parties themselves know best how it is done, and through it it is also good to discover and draw attention to the sins and possible mistreatments of other parties. However, as in other judicial proceedings or, for example, in police proceedings, those who are well aware of these crimes and who could easily discover them are still very clearly impartial qualified practitioners and judges who do this work. In this case, the reason was the same fact, which the Chancellor of Justice has referred to very clearly in his opinion is best suited to these qualifications, qualifications and resources, as well as to the resources of the National Audit Office, which could supervise the funding of political parties. We also commissioned an analysis to this effect or views that, if such a change were to take place, what would be the views of the specialists? Well, completely independent specialists have claimed that if the supervision of the funding of political parties now moves from the committee to the National Audit Office, to the institution, the same principles laid down by the Venice Commission can be very clearly passed on, they will be followed. In this sense, there will be no compromise in the exercise of supervision. Yes, the issue in its own right is what you said that political party funding is now two-part. One thing is that the largest part of the public budget is certainly public resources, and there is also a part that does not fall under it. It is now necessary to analyse very clearly whether the National Audit Office has competence and whether it can also supervise the part of the funding that does not take place from the state budget. It must also be taken into account that political parties are like NGOs, but they are in a special position because, through the elections and through the use of money, they are seeking a special position, namely to govern the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U25	Jevgeni Ossinovski, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U26	Thank you. The Ministry of Justice also has a special position, by the way, and this could actually be reflected in the fact that you are really impartial evaluators with regard to constitutionality and the consistency of different laws, which it is difficult to identify in this case. But my second question is that your opinion is sad in that sense. Firstly, because you are proposing to the government to support this embarrassing draft. Secondly, you do not actually bring any substantive proposals from the Ministry of Justice to make political party funding more effective, which is clearly necessary. You are saying that you are rather repeating some of the thoughts that your party's fellow Members in this Parliament have said that procedural deadlines could be mutilated there a little, and the existing requirements could not fly into the trash, but that is, let's say, common sense for now on this issue. However, the ERJK itself has put forward a series of proposals to make supervision better, more efficient and more professional. For example, as regards the recovery of interest on late payment, this regulation is currently lacking in law. As far as asking for information from third parties is concerned, this cannot or may not be the case, but does not need to be answered. There are a lot of fundamental places where the supervision of the funding of political parties can be actually made more effective, which is not related at all to whether it is at the National Audit Office or here, but for some reason, in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, there is no substantive proposal on how to make the supervisory system more effective compared to the current one, in a situation where many other parties, including the ERJK, have these proposals. Do you think that the current regime is all right and that there really should be no improvement in the supervision of political party funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U27	Yeah, thanks! Well, this current situation, how well it is, can be assessed when there is something to compare with. Now we have no comparison, we have only the activities of the ICTY. But if this action were to be more effective, if there were to be some new monitoring methods, some new operations, it could still be seen after a certain change has taken place. The truth is, as you yourself said, that the ERJK may be asked in its terms of competence, but whether the one asked must come to answer is the question of the third parties themselves. Yes, you can ask political parties, parties are also legally obliged to report, but third parties cannot do so. And in order to subject third parties to certain supervision or to create an obligation for them to be subject to supervision, it is best to do so through national institutions. These tasks can certainly not be assigned to the political party monitoring committee. In this sense, I believe that it still gives a much stronger expression to putting the same obligation on third parties who should work together if it is still carried out through a constitutional institution, just as we intend to shift this supervision. As regards whether the Ministry of Justice has now made a number of immediate proposals on how to make this monitoring even more effective, this would still require a much deeper opening and deepening of a specific draft. At the moment, however, we have based our opinion on the existing draft and on the most important nuances on which we considered it necessary to express our position. There was no objective at all that we would now dismantle this draft into sticks and begin to complete it very thoroughly. Because it must also be taken into account that this is a draft from the Riigikogu to the proceedings. Of course, if the Riigikogu is to deal with it here in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, then I assume that the Ministry of Justice will probably also be involved as a ministry with a certain degree of competence. And then, indeed, here in the course of the procedure, we can also discuss very clearly the introduction of these additional activities, improvements or methods, which should then also make the supervision of the funding of political parties significantly more effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U28	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U29	Thank you. Mr. Time, you have already shown that you are going to Urmas Reinsalu and are always selective in your legal assessments. In the case of Urmas Reinsalu, he was confident that he would always have something to say about judgments or even the decisions of the prosecutor's office when it was necessary to initiate politically against individual cases. But you, too, already have freshly the first words of this kind. What you're talking about right now is extremely impartial talk. You are, by the way, trying to question the self-regulation of political parties, which has worked very well in many areas. There is also a bar in your field of law.. among the courts. You are trying to talk about politicisation, but you are completely silent that the National Audit Office basically says that it feels the risk of politicisation in it. He uses other words, but the point is that it damages his core business, it does not correspond to his role as an independent auditor or his lack of role as a sanctioner. These functions have been denied to him by the Constitution, which you give him. However, could you now be able to make a legal assessment of this draft rather than say that things need to be analysed? Would you be able to impersonate the Ministry of Justice as a minister and say how this bill is compatible with the roles of the National Audit Office? And is self-regulation in today's society timely or unthinkable?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U30	Thank you for your question. As regards now whether the National Audit Office, as a constitutional institution, is bound by obligations that are not directly listed in the Constitution, this debate has actually been conducted a few years ago when the National Audit Office was given the task of supervising local governments in the supervision of state budget funds. Even then, this debate was analogous to the fact that it is not mentioned in the Constitution and the National Audit Office should not and could not do so. This entire dispute also passed the constitutional review of the Supreme Court. However, the Supreme Court took the view that if this is justified and necessary for the functioning of the state, it is permissible. At present there is no other understanding, and the National Audit Office exercises this supervision very successfully in local governments. The second question is whether it now politicises the National Audit Office. Well, how can he politicise him more than any other state resources or state resources supervision, audit work? It is essentially the same: it looks away, it has to monitor whether the financial resources are being used legally and purposefully. Whether this is done by a party that has this set of rules prescribed, or by a public authority, the National Audit Office certainly has this competence. And the National Audit Office has not contested this either in the sense that they do not have competence. On the contrary, the Auditor General has said that we can do this. But really, what is at issue or what still needs to be decided on and on which I was staying here before was that part of the funding of political parties that does not come from the state budget is, in fact, a marginal part of the total amount, because the majority of the party money still comes from the state budget, you have to think very clearly, write it down and see how it is. Well, let's think about whether it's possible or not. But I believe that this part is now separately separated into another procedure, the part that does not come from the state budget, well, that doesn't make sense either. Similarly, this has been the part of sanctioning that the National Audit Office, as an administrative body, does not currently have. Is that reasonable or isn't it? That is what we have also discussed among ourselves and thought that this too would be a significant fragmentation of supervision, if one institution were to audit, monitor, draw conclusions, and the other administrative body would then apply some kind of sanction. It would also be completely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U31	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U32	The next question, No 4, is asked by Toomas Kivimägi and answered by Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister of Justice! After all, there is no doubt that the awkward €50,000 donation from Mrs Juhasste is worth initiating a criminal case. Whether it's a matter of prosecution and conviction, it's a little early to give answers to that decision, that decision comes from the DA's office on Friday, and I'm not gonna ask you for an opinion on that, because it wouldn't be appropriate. But surely, as Minister of Justice, it is up to you to take care of the sense of justice in society. And the purpose of justice is certainly much wider than the purpose of justice. Do you consider it normal that your coalition partner, who has already received a donation of EUR 50000 in January from a completely unknown entrepreneur, has no interest in the origin of this money for several months? Secondly, do you think it's okay that if the donation has been illegal and I return it, then it's okay? It's the same way that when I've stolen something from the store and I'm taking it back, is it my fault and my sin? What is even more important is the possible link between the business interests of the donor and those associated with the donor. As a representative of the Fatherland, you should certainly be very concerned because your party's flag has been the fight for corruption. From here to you a very specific question: can you clearly and definitively rule out the possible link between the business interests of the real donor of EUR 50000 and the decisions of the Centre Party in Tallinn or at state level? Can you rule out that connection?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U34	Thank you for your question. Good questioner, we share all the same values with regard to the rule of law. The prosecutor's office must be able to do its job regardless. And be the Minister of Justice, be the Prime Minister or President, no one has the right to give directions to the prosecutor's office or ask him for interim reports on how one or the other procedure goes. This is the same principle that I very clearly respect and have repeatedly emphasised that I do not intend to withdraw from the rule of law in the organisation of the Ministry of Justice's work and under the direction of the Ministry. The rest of this question, which you have asked in the long term, must be answered by the same independent procedure, in order to find out what the links were that were possible and whether they were at all. As regards the internal working arrangements of one party, whether it is an obligation for the party's secretary-general to monitor all transfers from the moment they arrive, or in what time and how he must contact and check something, it is an internal matter of the party. I am not going to evaluate the 'internal organisation' of any other party in front of the Chamber. But I do believe that if there have been repeated problems with the same coalition partner here, then the Centre Party has actually redrafted important positions and we have no more analogous problems. I don't know who marked this church or the Eastern money scandal here, but that's the past. These are matters that must be viewed as things that have happened in the past. These specific situations have already been assessed and assessed by law enforcement authorities on a number of occasions in the course of the procedure. So I have nothing to add here today. Each party must keep its back room and its floor as clean as it has laid down in its internal rules, internal rules of procedure and agreements. Are these rules good, right, and purposeful? I guess that's what the voter's gonna judge, every four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U35	The question to be specified by Toomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I didn't say a word about the past, I was talking about the present, the problem that we all have on the table and on our lips today. Not only on your lips, but also in your heart. And indeed, there is a moment of truth as to whether anyone from some country is responsible for such acts. It's a real question of a sense of justice, isn't it? That's why I don't say a word about the past. When, at the beginning of this Question Time, the Prime Minister said in answer to the question about the origin of the money that it came from a woman's account, that was probably the case. However, when we read the article of the Estonian Express on 6 June, it responds in a similar way that the origin of the money and the reasons for the donation, however, cannot be said to be such a personal story. These words can only be said by people who know the origin of the money very accurately and also know the reasons why the money has been donated. And these words have been said specifically by the leading members of your coalition partner's Central Party, led by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. They know the reasons. They know who the money came from. And my question is with reference to the editorial of today's Postman, which is worded in this way: it is time to take responsibility, not to apologize anymore. In Finland, the minister who attended the training of EUR 50 000 resigned. Jüri Ratas training of EUR 50 000 also ended. As long as we as a society accept this behavior of the Chairman of the Centre Party, nothing will change. Do you agree with Postman's editorial position?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U37	Thank you for your question. Well, once again, the procedure has been initiated as to what the links were, what the backgrounds were, why this transfer of funds was made. Well, then, let's let the processers do their job peacefully. Whether I, as Minister of Justice or Parliament, are already starting to make some kind of assessment here in the middle of the procedure, ready to formulate decisions, I do not think it is right. This is often one problem in our society that, even when the procedure begins, this 'conviction' decision is made and that the presumption of innocence is not respected at all, which is one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law. After all, today we are actually trying to lead ourselves along that path, that before the proceedings are concluded at the prosecutor's office, when these facts are clarified, the facts are clarified, and the connections-reasons are found, we already want to make a decision, right or wrong, guilty or innocent. I don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U38	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U39	Thank you. Mr. Minister of Justice, try to be impartial again. You didn't do it before, and you didn't do it now. You say with conviction that the Centre Party has changed, and there are no more such things as the Eastern Cash scandal. The public can see there's a direct connection to one dirty 50,000 at least, there have been other cases, but you deny, say there was nothing here, everything's fine. Try to be at least as constructive as the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this subject, on the supervision of political parties. There we quite unanimously identified that there were no substantive complaints to the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. You began to claim that there were great reproaches, there were no complaints in the Commission, the initiators repeatedly said so. Secondly, we found that the National Audit Office does not have such tasks in the Constitution and, if given, only under certain conditions. The very case you mentioned here actually gave the answer. In the committee, it also repeatedly said that there are actually no compelling reasons for giving the National Audit Office any additional tasks that the judgment would allow. The Auditor General himself said that such a task interferes with his basic tasks; it is not in accordance with his basic functions. Now try to give this bill a legal assessment of the destruction of the monitoring system, given what I have read to you. Now you should know what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed. Please give a legal assessment of the draft that is currently in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U40	Thank you. Well, when I come to the start of your speech, I have to say the same thing here, for the sake of the verbatim, so that it can be recorded in the verbatim: I have not said about the 50000 in question that everything is right there. I just answered that let the prosecutors do their job, and then we'll make a decision. Let's not start making decisions until the procedure is in progress. Let's not start judging. That's a first. Secondly, as regards the same thing now, whether the Auditor General likes Parliament to impose duties on him, and not just with a command table, but with the law. If Parliament makes the Auditor General do something further by law, if it has passed constitutional review, whether or not the Auditor General likes it, then the debate is no longer a question. Many of the things that are done by law to different institutions are added to responsibilities or are taken away from any kind of task, do not like it. However, once Parliament has passed this debate, the constitutional review process has been completed and everything is recognised as constitutional, that is the case. And there are places that need to be given much more attention, that is what I made clear in this very position of the Ministry of Justice. This concerns precisely this part of this funding. As regards the allocation of money from the state budget to political parties, this is, after all, the supervision of the prudent and legal use of public funds. What else is that? I don't know what else to add here. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this debate must be held, these nuances, and if there are any corners, they must be polished, if necessary, constitutional monitoring must be carried out, the President must decide and, if necessary, the Supreme Court must also decide. The Supreme Court will find out the final truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U42	Lauri Läänemets registered to ask the next question, but since she is absent from Question Time, I will take the next question from the queue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U43	The question will be asked by Taavi Rõivas and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U44	Thank you. There have already been quite a number of questions on this subject, but very few precise and clear answers. One particular point was that you asked me if you've lied or whipped, and let's say where you've lied or whipped. If I now follow the chronology, I would argue this: it is not possible that you did not know the true maker of this donation and that the donation was made not at the expense of the donor's personal resources, but at the expense of another person's money. I'm ready to believe as a benevolent person that in January, when this donation was made, you may not really know where it came from. Indeed, this donation may have been announced to you later, even though in this case the question arises as to why the Secretary-General did not inform you that such a large amount of money came from an unknown person. But in April at the latest, when the Estonian public had doubts as to whether an unknown person could donate such a large amount of money, and the first questions arose as to whether these motives were logical, well then you had to ask questions. At the latest in May, there could no longer be any doubt that this was a third-party donation because, if you read the statements made by you and your party partners, at the latest in May, several members of your party's board and, at the same time, the minister of your government were made aware of the fact from whom or from whose account that donation came. My question is this: did you really not know this thing as the most informed person in Estonia? Or did you actually know that this donation came not from Mrs Juhastes himself, but from Mr Künna's image, perhaps not from her personal resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U45	Thank you for this question. I think I've been very specific in this whole case with my answers and I've given out a hundred percent of the information I have. I cannot now say which criterion to assess, who is the most informed person in Estonia or who is not. I don't think it's the Prime Minister. Depends on what field. Yeah, I'm sticking to the answers I've given in this briefing. The party was in contact with this person at the end of May. At my request, and basically from there, there was a discussion within the party about what to do with this donation. A few days later, ten days later, last week's Saturday came the decision to return this donation. I understand you very well, Mr. Clothes, how you say that the third person and that I certainly knew about this donation, etc. The party has, in my opinion, done virtually everything in our power to find out where this donation came from and for what purposes it has been made. We've been working on the information we know. Why do I say practically everything? Because, yes, I'm sure the party should have contacted him earlier. These changes have already been introduced by us in the Bureau in order to follow this procedure in the future. But like I said, we don't have any more information right now. I think it is also very difficult for the party to learn more information. If it is seen that there is a reason to start proceedings here, then surely the Estonian law enforcement authorities will start and arrive at their own result. If they see there's no reason to, well, they don't. I can't tell you which way to go. But the question you put in such a definite wording is that everything is known, everything is from a third party, everything is wrong money, well I'm saying that I also suggest you be a little careful in the assessments that will now crucify one party for this. Surely you do not have the right to make such assessments, nor do I. That is why law enforcement authorities are in Estonia. Estonia is a rule of law, a democratic state, and these matters must be investigated as prescribed by the order and the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U46	Javier in clothing, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U47	Thank you. No, I don't agree with that last assessment. I think that I and every citizen of the Republic of Estonia have a right and I, as a member of the Riigikogu, have a duty to bring things to the fore. If you can see that someone is using doping instead of equal competition, you still need to organize this field because doping in politics is even more dangerous than doping in sports. The fate of society, of people, of the state, is at stake. And we shouldn't allow it. That's one. Yes, law enforcement authorities have a role to play, and the Commission for the Financing of Political Parties also has a role to play. In all my goodwill, I refuse to believe that it is a coincidence that a draft will come from your coalition, which will be disbanded by the Political Financing Monitoring Commission in its current form, in the form of a Commission, one day after they started asking you uncomfortable questions about this 50000. There's no way it's a coincidence. Well, it can't be a coincidence. But, well, maybe you believe this could be a coincidence. At the beginning of June you said (I quote): 'He has given us thorough and reasoned views. ' All the signs show, and this information has been repeated from the public, that by then it had been known to the leading members of your party and to you personally that the donation was not from Mrs Helen Juhaste's personal resources, but from a third party. All the more so as this third person has links to possible disputes with the city of Tallinn, which is still a separate topic. When speaking to the Estonian people in front of the Riigikogu, are you now prepared to say that, no, you did not know that this money was not really Helen Juhaste's personal money, and you did not find out about it until the Estonian Express wrote about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U48	Thank you. First the doping. What do you mean by "doping" now? Are you talking about black funding? Or does the Reform Party mean anything else by that doping? I don't know. I think that there can certainly be no black funding in Estonian politics. For this, I have stood for at least as party chairman every day and will continue to stand, point one. Point two is this: you're asking if it's a coincidence that somehow this draft ERJK came up, and here's the problem of 50,000. But let's say it's not an accident, as you're suggesting, that you don't believe it, even then I don't understand where this attack site is. I have always said that everything that is in the process, if the Riigikogu should decide that the National Audit Office will supervise the funding of political parties, I cannot imagine that something will fall between two chairs, some proceedings will be closed. I find this unthinkable. I keep saying it's unthinkable. You know this, Mr. Clothes, because I have said this to you many times in this briefing. And, of course, I will continue to answer your question in exactly the same way. But yes, if you're asking me if it was now something like dimming, that you see, this question of 50,000 and the signing of the draft of the ERJC, no, certainly no such dimming. Now on, you're talking from the beginning of June that I was in my position, and you're asking if I've changed them in any way. No, I haven't changed my mind. That phone call was at the end of May. And now, in my opinion, the specific question is that you are saying that it is not the personal resources of this donor. It's a very complicated question. Point one, as far as I know, the money came from this woman's bank account. Point two, I know it was the sincere will of this woman herself to do so. I don't have any more chance of checking whether or not this was the case. What was the reason for the return? It was that she said that the money had to do with her child, with her family support. And the joint decision was that this money would not be accepted. That's why the party wore it back. It was not put back on 27 May, not on 28 May, but, as I said, we made this decision last week on Saturday. And that's it. But this attack and the questions of whether it was his personal resources or not, forgive us, we are going to be personal now, and we and your party have no such control options.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U49	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U50	Thank you. You are saying that only law enforcement authorities can control the prohibition of donation, as if the party itself cannot do so. There's also a paragraph in the Penal Code like "The Magic." If you're going by the store and you're taking something out of there, you know it's wrong, even before the police arrest you. Similarly, in fact, the party law makes it very clear what is forbidden to donate. Prohibited donations are listed in paragraph 123 and include, among other things, donations made through a third party. Perhaps the party should check that these donations do not meet the criteria of the forbidden donation, which are set out in the party law. Why? I say that the idea behind it of why a party should check is this: the same party law says that the forbidden donation must be returned immediately. Not when it will be investigated by law enforcement authorities, but immediately when the party is convinced that this donation is prohibited. What is more, what means immediately, in fact, says the same article of the party law, which states that there will be no liability if, within 30 days, this donation is returned when it is known that it is a forbidden donation. Here's the question: why didn't you do this check in January when this donation arrived for you? Why didn't you do this inspection even in April when these reports were published and the Political Financing Monitoring Commission started asking questions about this? Your secretary-general then replied that we have not contacted this person, that we do not know who he is and that we do not care whether this is a forbidden donation or a promised donation or what it is. Why didn't you do anything from January, but only in June,...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U52	...when the press asked about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U53	Thank you. Yeah. Define it's now a forbidden donation, I'm telling you, I think it's going on very slippery ice. I understand that you have now defined it in public here for an hour in a row. Frankly, I'm not convinced that this is a forbidden donation. Even if the Centre Party hadn't returned it. Of course, this must be assessed primarily by law enforcement bodies, if they consider it necessary. There were certainly a lot of questions in the air that were not clear, and that is why we returned this EUR 50000 of money to the party's account. The assessment of whether this is a forbidden donation 'you are, of course, very skilful in this addition to the capital, though some other problems, has changed over time as well. At one point, it was said that it was the child's money that could not be passed on, then it was said to have something to do with a plan. These doubts have always changed. Yes, I completely agree with you: it is regrettable that this control has not been carried out before. I don't want to deny that in any way. But that control was, well, it was later, but it was. And as far as we could do, it was at the end of May, as I've said. After that, we decided within a few weeks that this donation should be returned. But I would also call on you to consider very seriously whether it is worth making such very serious accusations that there was a forbidden donation, is some reason why it was transferred through a third party, etc. Yes, of course I agree with Mr. Clothing that a politician can say what he wants us to have a free society and the word is free, but I do not think it is right to make such legal accusations from this hall. That's how I can answer you. Of course, today's wisdom, hindsight, is that control should have taken place earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U54	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U55	Next, Helmen Kütt will ask the question and will be answered by Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Justice! On 3 June Villu Kõve, President of the Supreme Court, appeared in the large hall of the Riigikogu with an overview of the court organisation, justice and uniform application of the laws. I quote one paragraph from his report: 'I specifically mention the subject of a minimum living, which we have to do with the minimum wage. It is not difficult to predict that, in times of economic downturn, people will not be able to pay minimum living costs. In many regions, even so far, it has not been possible to pay, especially in South Estonia. However, if there is currently a fixed minimum subsistence rate in the case law, this means that there will be a mass coming to court to change it and it will pile up the courts with a job that can be kept out of it by law. If you want to prevent a problem, I will give you a request to address it. The maintenance system should also be simplified. In order for people to have a living, it is not necessary to go to court first, as the current law requires. Maintenance aid should reach people even without passing the trial, at least in certain cases. ' This topic has been on the table of the Ministry of Justice for a very long time, and if during the Coronavirus many ministers and ministries came in part not even to the Coro-Corapion-related topics of the Riigikogu in order to rapidly amend the laws, then on this subject, which the President of the Supreme Court Villu Kõve points out, nothing else has come from the Ministry of Justice but the fact that the Minister of Population came with a draft to shorten the waiting period for maintenance aid to one month instead of four months. What have you been thinking? You'll see that in court, this job is gonna pile up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U57	Yes, thank you for your question. Well, I can't argue much against the Honorable President of the Supreme Court here. Well, the claims he made in this chair or on the speaker's desk are true. They are true in the sense that this problem has been dealt with for a long time. There have been all kinds of round tables and debates, where, as far as I know, the honourable judiciary itself has also participated. In 2018, if I don't make a mistake with a date, the Ministry of Justice also came up with a proposal and a legal proposal to start setting the amount of maintenance aid with a certain formula. In the political debate, however, this bill was blown to shreds and dust, as you know, it didn't work out. After that, the Ministry of Justice ordered an analysis of the potential fair and objective size of maintenance aid. In cooperation with the University of Tartu and the PricewaterhouseCoopers Advisors of AS, this report was completed in February. This report has also been made public. It also mentioned two aspects to be taken into account, and these aspects made it very clear that the current 'basic postulate', which must be based on 50% of the minimum wage, is no longer objective or adequate today, since we are constantly increasing the minimum wage and it is going to go beyond what is necessary for those obliged to pay. However, it should also be noted that, even now, the court is actually entitled to reduce it by 50%. They do not always have to apply this 50% if it is argued, justified. The court can take into account the financial situation of the debtor and other aspects of the debtor, whether and how many dependants he or she has, for example, dependents from a new partnership or from a new marriage. In these circumstances, the court can also make a different decision. Rather, this simple principle has been used in earlier legal proceedings: if the law says 50% of the minimum wage, we will also put 50% of the minimum wage, without going into the necessary detail. So I guess there's a lot of circumstances. I do not rule out that the courts are facing an increase in the workload, but based on this analysis, the work plan of the Ministry of Justice is such that by the end of the year it will be in the government of the bill. By October at the latest, we intend to send it to the coordination circle and then to the government. Hopefully, at the very end of the year, he will also arrive at Parliament's proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U58	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U59	Thank you very much for your answer. My question actually focused on the fact that during the corona virus, people have lost their jobs and they are unable to pay the allowance granted by the court, even perhaps less than half the minimum wage. You haven't done anything to do that. The courts are burdened with this work. In fact, people cannot afford a living; children cannot afford a living that needs to be put on the table every day by their mother or father, depending on who is raising a child. Nice. I'm glad these things are moving. Indeed, this 55-page analysis, which exists, provides an opportunity again for an intention to be developed and for a long debate. But I would also quote Villu Kõve's answer to the question about maintenance: 'Actually, I would point my finger at the Ministry of Justice, who is a screw-up... Sorry, wrong word! But they haven't been able to come up with a solution. With the previous Minister of Justice, we had a round table several times, with representatives of the various parties present. Everyone admitted that the current system did not work. I think it's been a year or two. They made a deal, and the Ministry made a bill, but it disappeared somewhere in the Justice Department. 'Jne, I'm not quoting anymore. From here on out, you said there was hope for something to come by the end of the year. When, then, will people actually be able to pay for a righteous living, and the children who need it will actually receive it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U60	As far as the workload of the courts is concerned, it is inevitable. Certain problems in society sometimes increase, sometimes reduce, in the present case, certainly increase the burden on courts. And not only in maintenance claims, but certainly there are civil disputes and payment claims and different things ahead of us due to this economic downturn or crisis. After all, we have made an amendment to the law of the courts, which also gave much more flexibility to the courts themselves to organise their work much more smoothly, for example, to refer matters to other courts if they are, for example, in written proceedings, to refer judges to other courts, i.e. where the burden is greater, less burdened, so that the courts can cope with their workload. But why didn't we come up with this particular thing now, when it was a change of law due to the circumstances as a so-called cluster law regime? Well, you realize there's been years of controversy over this. It is not possible to simply change this complex and multifaceted, multi-layered issue in a hurry now. I don't know what that Villu Kõve was like, crack or crack or something like that. I think the same would have come out of this hall if we had started changing it quickly. That is why this analysis was also commissioned, so that there would not be a draft born in the silence of the cabinet and in the heads of the officials, but would indeed be a knowledge-based approach to this new draft. It should, then, indeed be the kind that would be acceptable to those who demand it for a living and those who have to pay it. But I'm afraid it's not going to strike a balance yet. I can say with relative certainty and take the so-called poison that the debate that begins in the proceedings of this bill in this Chamber of the Riigikogu will still be very heated. And this process is time-consuming, because it is simply by nature impossible to take these two sides of the bill to an ideal level that satisfies both sides. One party always feels that he has been treated unfairly. But let's hope we can work this out anyway. And by the way that these mechanisms are set up, how this maintenance assistance is granted, he is a Social Insurance Agency or he is otherwise, the burden on the courts will eventually be reduced. I agree that not everything should go to court. We have public offices, such as the same Social Insurance Institution. After all, we are also creating a family mediation system with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Internal Affairs, which could also be part of it. So there are planned activities and further steps, yes and yes. But I say once again that they could not have been done with running feet, so-called half-strength deepening and half-thought-out thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U61	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U62	Thank you. I hope that Mrs Helmen Kütt will not mind if I ask my question driven by your response to my colleague Toomas Kivimägi. I understand that you think it makes perfect sense that right after the moment when the Political Financing Supervisory Commission asked about the donation of the government's leadership party, you had an irresistible desire to improve the funding of political parties in the government or, more specifically, in the government union. Because that's what you said: quality gets better. Well, I refuse to believe that you see no obvious contradiction with the Constitution. You produce a parallel of local government, which was indeed interpreted extenuatingly somewhat simplified as part of a "country" or a wider part of a country, which, according to its definition, cannot exist in any way in the third sector. I believe that you have also read the recital in that part of the judgment, where there is a condition that only if this task cannot be performed in any other way reasonably, can it be placed on the National Audit Office. I would say that I do not think there is any doubt that the current supervision would not or could not do so sensibly. But you quite rightly said that the lion's share of party money comes from the taxpayer's pocket. Your idea was that this is what the National Audit Office could then supervise, leaving aside the money from its private donors. I'm thinking about the cases that have been. All right, let's say, in the case of the Eastern Money case, there was speculation about another state participation, but there were also all these other houses and unsubstantiated bills, as well as now this last story, they have nothing to do with the state's allocation. They have, after all, been the smaller part of the party money that has come from donors and just suspicious donors. My question is this: do you know any cases where a part of the state needed stronger supervision? Or do you agree that the part that really comes from donors has been a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U63	Yeah, thanks! You started by saying that we had some sort of lucidity a few weeks ago here at a certain point. Well, that's not right. I said before that I don't already know what year it was, Mr. Teder, the Chancellor of Justice at the time, said from this very point of view of the Riigikogu that he thought the right place to supervise the funding of political parties was the National Audit Office. In 2018, my predecessor, the Minister of Justice, made a round table where the same issue was discussed and it was also concluded that it would be reasonable to move towards the National Audit Office to supervise the funding of political parties. So this is not now some lucidity of a few weeks or months ago, but there have been debates on this subject much earlier and many times. As far as the use of resources is concerned, we're focusing the whole thing on like this 50,000 right now, right, this was the original argument, this was the trigger and the reason why this whole process started. Well, as far as I know, that's not how it's been. I have not been in the Coalition Council, nor have I here, when the political groups made this agreement here and started it, sitting on it, but this debate on the implementation of this very possible draft has still taken place much earlier. In addition, we know what the Commission for the Financing of Political Parties has been monitoring. These are also things such as the transfer and use of money specifically from the same state budget to political parties, including money from the private sector or from private donors, or membership fees. But the Political Financing Monitoring Commission has monitored and pointed out on several occasions the use of other public funds in the interests of the party, it is then on some sort of public website or in some other way possible, where, for example, some public funds have been used for the purpose of campaigning. After all, the ERJK has also been monitoring and pointing out these matters. This is a very clear question of using public resources. So this is not just what the state budget is. Well, Jurgen, what are you shaking your head for? It's a public resource, isn't it, is it from the local government budget or is from the state budget? These aspects are, and indeed are, subject to supervision there, and where, I would say it again, the competence of the National Audit Office is considerably better than that of the ERJK so far. True, it has been claimed that all things received by the ICTY in court have been kept. But who has calculated how many of them have not been sent to court, because there has been no jurisdiction, has not had the ability to put this thing together so that he could have been mature to send it to court? No one's ever been interested in that. And if we have also discussed here with the so-called independent experts what this perspective may be, then they have not, frankly, been very happy with the quality that has come out of this ERJK.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U64	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U65	Andres Sutt next asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U66	Thank you. Prime Minister! I assume you've read the editorials of today's daily newspapers that reflect society's judgment and expectations. The postman was mentioned here once, but I will mention it again. The postman makes it very clear in his editorial that it is time to take responsibility, not to apologize. If I listen to your answers, there will be such an attempt to find justification and excuses. But if we go to the timeline of the same donation case, on January 22, 25,000 will be received twice. The first reaction from your party will only occur when it is written by the ERR portal on 13 April. We'll go two more months from there, and Postimees will write about it on May 17th that ERJK will study the subject of 50,000 donations. On the next day, the emergency situation will end, and on the next day, the coalition members will come here with a bill to liquidate the ERJK in this form. It can't be, and it doesn't seem like a coincidence. As head of the Coalition Council, I do not see how you can move away from this responsibility. I've been listening to your answers here. On June 5th, you say you don't have to return the money. On 8 June, you have already changed your mind and you are referring to the reason that according to family law, such a donation cannot be accepted. It is not really a question of whether the money was received from Mrs Juhaste's account. It is also a question of how this money got into Mrs. Juhas' account. Prime Minister, when will you take responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U67	Thank you. I told you from the beginning that if there were any unanswered questions about the donation, it would have to be returned. That's what I've been answering all day. And I think I have also rightly answered, because these are, of course, legitimate questions. You're accusing me of somehow trying to justify it, and it doesn't seem like a coincidence that this draft ERJK was introduced now that the emergency situation ended, and this whole 50,000 problem scene. Well, you know, Mr. Sutt, I have answered all these questions, but of course I will answer you exactly the same way. Item one, when this information came to the party at the end of May, since that day there have been daily discussions to get answers to the questions. There's also been a video conference with this donor. The truth is that last Saturday, new questions came up in society, and that was why we finally decided in the party that this donation should be returned. If you think for a moment about this time series, which you also pointed out, then on Saturday there was one main focus on whether it is right for a party to transfer money, which is primarily aimed at raising a child, and whether there is a conflict with family law. This was primarily the reason I ordered that this donation be returned in full. This donation has been returned by today. Yes, there has been no such assembly that now the ERJK must be abolished, as you put it, and then somehow this 50,000 problem will be solved. I won't! First of all, point one, the current coalition has never wanted to abolish the supervision of the funding of political parties. It has been our desire to raise it to a higher level. I have also answered very openly here before you that, in principle, all these years have been held since the ERJK was created, whether the higher quality and the stronger and higher resource would not be in the National Audit Office. I continue to think that the National Audit Office has a greater resource, a stronger resource. And that does not mean in any way that I or the Centre Party or the current coalition would no longer want to supervise or reduce the funding of political parties. Here, some have argued that it is desirable to exclude private money or private money in some way. That, too, is the wrong argument, because the whole picture must, of course, be verified.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U68	Andres Sutt, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U69	Thank you. Prime Minister! Your answer again came to the conclusion that you found out about the subject at the end of May. But in reality, things are different. As early as April 13, the news was up on the ERR portal. I don't understand why they didn't act faster. There's clearly a leader's responsibility. But I'm going to ask you again so I can understand you correctly. If Mrs Juhaste transferred the money from her account to the Central Party account, then that money really came from her account, but since that money was transferred to her account from someone else, is it a third party or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U70	Thank you. Why didn't you act faster, driver's responsibility, I understand where the core of your question is. Well, then ask me directly when I'm resigning, that's actually your question. What are you doing here with these two questions? The answer to you is why they didn't act faster. They didn't act because it's really a lesson. There's no good reason why they didn't get in touch faster. Yeah, I should have. I didn't say anything else either. It is also a very painful lesson in this respect for the party, but it has certainly learned from it, and we have already supplemented our decisions in the leadership of the party at this level. Now, lead responsibility. Yeah, well, I'm a long way from saying in this briefing that the party's financial affairs are handled by the secretary-general and I'm not responsible. I know that this is also what has been said in Estonian politics in the recent past: ask the Secretary-General, I do not deal with the party's finances. No, I certainly will not reject this responsibility, and the party chairman will still be responsible for the success of the party. I am responsible for the Estonian Centre Party of NGO. Your question is whose account or how that money got into his account. I am sorry, Mr Sutt, but these powers are neither the chairman of a party, nor any political party, nor the Prime Minister, to find out exactly how it got there, and so on. We only know the sayings of this people. We have asked this person questions, he has answered them, and he has answered them as much as we have information, honestly and sincerely. If there is any other information, we need to look into it, but the parties have no tools to investigate it any more. Estonia is thank God! The rule of law, the democratic state, we have a separation of powers. Well, we'll have to look into it when we think it's necessary. Whether or not they are, as you know, at the latest by the end of the week's working days, i.e. Friday's decision must come what happens next. If an investigation is initiated, I think that, in any case, it will also be good if this recital is respected, then it will finally become clear how it has been. In order for the Estonian Centre Party of NGO to examine it further and to come to your answers, this third person, etc., there are no such opportunities for political parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U71	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U72	Thank you. Lawyers have such a saying that a look in the book of the law will make it easier to find justice. It seems to me from your answers that you haven't read the party law at all. You can't put these two things together. One is the Penal Code, which provides for a criminal sanction, which is indeed investigated by the prosecutor's office, which is then a prohibited donation to a large extent, but, for example, Paragraph 123 (2) (7) of the Political Party Act states that a forbidden donation is a donation made through a natural person and from the property of a third person. From your explanations you've given before, it turns out that you knew that money from this woman has actually come from a third person. You've been spreading that information to the press yourself and telling me where the money came from. In the same way, you said here that you are involved in party funding. If you're dealing with this, you should know what the party law says. This list is there and will give you the opportunity to check, ask questions, and it will also give you the opportunity to get rid of responsibility if this donation is returned immediately, not within five months, but immediately, perhaps immediately. And the party law once again says that it is immediately 30 days, i.e. it is after responsibility. You also said that you have said from the beginning that if anything suspicious comes out, the money must be returned. But it was January, not June. The beginning of this donation was in January. So when exactly did you find out about this donation to ask these questions? And the second question: if you say yourself that the party is unable to control the prohibited donations or the prohibition of donations, because that should be the case for law enforcement bodies, could you hand over the funding of the Centre Party to the prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U73	Thank you. First of all, the question of whose donation or whose property it is. I know it's from that donor's account, and it's his money. As I say, if you have any other knowledge, I don't have any. There's knowledge of how that donor got that money. He has told us this, and that is where the question arose that there might be a conflict with the law of the family. But I really don't have the information you have. You're saying it's third-party property. It's come from this woman's current account and her money, her property. That's what I know. If you have any other knowledge, then, I don't know, you'll have to make the corresponding statements. I said this about the funding of the party, that this has been claimed in the recent past of Estonia or that the chairman of the party has said that I am not dealing with party funding, do not ask me, ask the secretary-general. It was a quote, that is more or less a quote from the chairman of one of the parties. On the contrary, I say that I am certainly responsible for all the funding that has been made for the Centre Party. Do I do this on a daily basis, look at the accounts? No, there's a party for that, and there's the person who does it. But, of course, the chairman of the party is responsible. So I'm certainly not gonna push these questions away. Is he a forbidden donation or not? You bring this forbidden donation issue in here all the time. Once again, if I knew it was a criminally forbidden donation, I would certainly not be here in front of you today. That's right. But the fact that there was a conflict with the family law, according to our assessment, was also the reason why we returned the money. I think you're asking for the third or fifth time if you couldn't have reacted sooner. I have also answered you here in the last hour and 38 minutes, and I am also answering at the moment: of course I could and should have reacted sooner. Your proposal that the entire funding of the Centre Party should be checked by the prosecutor's office, but why not, a good proposal. We don't have anything to hide here. But I would also say that before you throw the log in the other eye or throw the surface in the other eye, you have to look yourself in the mirror.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U74	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U75	Next, Jaak Juske will ask the question and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Austet Prime Minister! I have listened to you here today, and purely humanly, I feel very sorry for you. In recent years, you have tried to turn your back on the criminal past of the Central Party, turn your back on the shabby corruption crimes of the Savisaar era, you have tried to make your party cleaner than the eyeglasses. Now, today, and actually for quite some time now, you have been under the hail of well-founded questions, you have had to spin around with your partymates, come up with new answers every week, trying to refute accusations that are still very serious and talk about possible corruption. This whole donation thing smells really bad. And now, once again, I understand you in a human way, you are not ready to resign from the Prime Minister's position today, saying that you do not know that this donation is criminal. But now if the investigative authorities start an official investigation and it turns out that this donation was criminal, criminal, will you resign? A clear answer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U77	Thank you. I'm glad you feel sorry for me, but you don't have to be sorry. I'll be fine, Mr. Juske. But your support is always welcome. Yes, it has really been, it is and will be, in the future, my wish: to change the party's behaviour in financial matters, since the beginning of November 2016. I would argue that the party has changed quite a bit on this issue, and it certainly can become even better. Now for the possible corruption you're throwing in here. As I said, it is not known to me that I have no information that it has been a criminal donation. However, in any case, corruption must not be financed by a party; party funding and funding must, in any case, be transparent, not 90%, but 100%. Now, whether Jüri Ratas is the Prime Minister or not. There are two main options. The President of the Reform Party has said that he will initiate a mistrust on this matter. It is possible to change the Prime Minister or, if he considers it right, on the basis of his personal statement. As I have said, I trust the Estonian law enforcement authorities, they must wait for their decisions and then take the next steps. Whoever in Estonia is judging whether a donation is criminal or not is still a court at the final stage. As you know, the courts may be very long, but I believe and very much hope that answers will still be found on this issue first. As far as I know, both the donor and the party have said publicly that we are prepared to cooperate fully and openly with the law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U78	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U79	Prime Minister, I did not get a very specific answer from you, but I wish you luck, because there is still a very high risk that all your fight so far will blow up. This bubble is about to explode. But I know that I will gather such absurd stories about Estonian history, for example, this 50,000 euro donation story will certainly be a classic one day. Right, the mother in the EKRE decides to donate money to her child's account out of millions of opportunities to the Centre Party. This is really a very good story in terms of history, although it is undoubtedly a very bad precedent in Estonia today. This whole thing smells really bad. But I'll ask you, as a father, what would you do if your child had a bank account of EUR 50000. After discussion with the child, would you decide to donate this money directly, of course, to the Estonian Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U80	Thank you. Well, I don't know if this bubble's gonna explode, it's gonna explode or not. I think that in recent months there have been quite a lot of very important and other topics in Estonian society. Of course, members of the Riigikogu have the right to choose and ask about the most important subject that is currently the most burning in Estonian society. I have a duty and a right to answer their questions. Will it be history or not? Well, I'm sure you know history better than I do, but I think you might be better at predicting the future, at least in your opinion. I don't know how you're gonna explain this to your schoolchildren. You're a school dad, and then you're gonna start explaining the case and discussing it with the EKRE, the Centre Party, and I don't know who else, as you said in your question. Now, this last question, what is it that I do for my child? I don't think I need to answer that, Mr. Juske, I'm sorry. But I don't know that money came from a child's account into that mother's account. But if you also have this information or this design, you have to check it. As far as I know, the money hasn't been in a child's account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U81	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! There is probably no dispute that EUR 50000 is a lot of money for both individuals and parties. You have said many times today that you are not the chairman of a party who says that only the Secretary-General knows about the finances, but you are also familiar with these matters and are prepared to take responsibility for it. The media have reported that this money was received by the Central Party in January. I imagine that, since this is a large amount of money and you said that you are familiar with the finances, the Secretary-General will probably report to you at some point, at least on the amount of this order of magnitude and, in general, on the political party's financial situation. Kaja Kallas already asked for this in his last question, but he did not actually receive an answer. A very specific question: on what date did you learn that 50,000 had been transferred to the Central Party account, and what was your next action? Did you ask me to find out where it came from or why it came from?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U83	Thank you. I guess I generally stick to what I've said here in 6300 seconds, don't I? But yes, if this topic came up, then, as I have also answered, on 27 May I hope that I am not mistaken for the date of my request there was a conversation with this donor. We had questions for this donor, what are the reasons why he has made the donation, whether it has come from his personal current account, whether it is his own money, etc. Of course, that's where the matter came up, right? For what reason has the money come into his account? And then, as I have answered here, the debate was inside the party. And then we really thought it was right to return it to you last Saturday. In particular, the reason was that last week's Saturday was the main issue of conflict with family law. I remember that there was also a writing from a specialist in this field that said that yes, it could be a contradiction, or it could be. After all, he is always a question of court judgements or a question of judgments. Yes, of course, I will not stand up here in any way from responsibility as party chairman. At least in our political party, the chairman of the party is ultimately responsible for what is going on in monetary matters. No, there is no daily reporting from the Secretary-General, which has been a party's expenses or which has been donations from private individuals. There is certainly no such daily reporting. If you ask me what was the specific date that I found out about this, it's like an interrogation, it's a good thing you don't ask the time yet, I can't tell you that date today in Question Time. I guess that was when you came to the public with the quarterly reports, wasn't it? Then you can see how much one or the other party gets. So, no, we really do not have such a procedure that every day, or every week, the chairman of a party will review who has made transfers to the political party's current account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U84	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U85	Let's get to the last question today. It is presented by Aivar Sõerd and is answered by Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! We have dealt with this EUR 50000 case at length today, but I will also remain within the framework of this case on the last question, because there are half-truths and ambiguity here. You see, Prime Minister, the dates here play a very important role in resolving this matter. This 27th of May, which you are very attached to, is very important in the sense that the party law contains regulations and has a 30-day deadline during which a donation made through a natural person for the account of a third party's property must be returned. Do you understand? I'm referring to the data published here in the press. We are not a investigative body, indeed, but I am referring to the press data. The daily newspaper says you knew the source of the donation as early as April. And this is not just a thrown claim, but specifically refers to the statements made by Mailis Reps that he was the first to communicate with Juhaste in April. April! Therefore, the donation should have been returned in May. Isn't that right? That is why I ask my question in this way: can you admit that one of the governing bodies of your party, however, was in contact with Mrs Juhastes already in April?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U87	Thank you. No, I'm not clinging to that May 27th date. I can certainly speak as passionately as I was on 22 January when this donation was made, which I have spoken about in today's briefing. And I have said that, of course, I think that although the law does not directly say that you have to contact the next one, I don't know, at the minute, at the hour, day or week, the Centre Party must act in such a way that one more step has been taken. I agree with that. Today's wisdom certainly says that so that you should have contacted me immediately. But yes, it's hindsight. So I might as well cling to January 22nd, then you say it has an even greater weight or strength. But I don't think this is going to take us much further right now. However, this has taken things forward in the party in the sense that we have expanded precisely the circle of those who need to review the party's funding and finances, to monitor it. And we have also discussed the issue that, of course, in the future, this cannot happen again, that certain amounts of donations are not automatically contacted by the donor. Yeah, well, here's a question of whether it's gonna have to be done now with all the donations. As we know, political party membership fees will also be paid into a political party holding account. Every party must set this limit for itself and, of course, everything must be done to make it look and be legal. Now your claim that someone was in contact with this donor in April. I think this may be due to an article in the press that said that Mailis Reps was already in contact with this donor in April. He has corrected this claim yesterday and said that it is not true. The first contact he had with this donor was May 27th. I, too, have asked him if May 27 is the first day, and he has answered me that he is. So there's really a lot of ambiguity in this vault of claims or dates, but this has to be resolved. His first contact was at the end of May, not April.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U88	Thank you. Now I ask the questioner to make it quick and the answer will do so, otherwise the time will run out. Please specify the question, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U89	Quickly. Well, I suppose, yes, the time they were in contact with Juhaste can really find out the research bodies. But it also requires the initiation of proceedings. If the procedure is not started, of course, it will be more complicated. But I'm asking, you know, about the law on the supervision of this big party. You have always stressed here that the quality requirements of this committee are not what the National Audit Office could offer. What, then, do you think, in the same EUR 50000 case, did this Political Financing Monitoring Commission do in a poor way when it dealt with this case? What did he fail to do, what operations were of poor quality or what operations were suddenly redundant, what did this Commission do?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U90	Thank you. I have not really heard that the reason for this is that there are five individual examples of the supervision of the funding of political parties, say, to improve quality. I understand it's kind of nice to put it together like this, but that's definitely not the reason. In this sense, I stick to my position that the National Audit Office, if the Riigikogu so decides, can certainly do this work on a new and better quality level. Why is that? Because their resources are definitely greater. I think that their resources, human resources, money resources and certainly experience, are greater. Now, this fear, which has also been here, could it mean some kind of lack of procedures? Absolutely not. These procedures, which are up to date, must be completed. And when it is decided that something has been done wrong, penalties must also be imposed. To what you asked, whether or not this prosecutor's office will initiate proceedings on this matter, I really do not know how to answer. Just like you can't. And I think it's very healthy that neither you nor I have this knowledge. There can't be that knowledge. It is their deliberate decision, their decision on the basis of information that they can gather, the opportunities that political parties do not have. Of course, it is certainly my wish on this issue that there should be full cooperation, both yesterday, today and tomorrow, so that this matter can be clarified as soon as possible. And the party is definitely here to give open answers. But the party has already acted internally to make the party's own internal control of such donations more effective in the future, if you could say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U91	Thank you. I thank my honourable colleagues, and I also thank the members of the government. Question Time is over. Does Urmas Kruus have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U92	Yes, it is. Why do you assume the questioner will waste two minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U93	Because we also have to take into account the beginning of the sitting in this Chamber, we also have to turn on the suffrage, and unfortunately I have to take account of all these last minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U94	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 17th working week. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? No, it's not. Then we'll do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U95	Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have a long agenda and the first item has come from yesterday's agenda, which has not been processed and opened. We therefore have today's first item on the agenda for the second reading of the draft law amending the law on police and border guard initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would like to ask Kert Kingo, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U96	Mr President, Members of the Riigikogu. The draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act was initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee on 11 March 2020. The development of the draft act is due to the need for equal treatment of both the pensions of the years served by the police officer and the beneficiaries of the disability and survivors' pensions of the police officer and the border guard. This draft relates to the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by members of the Riigikogu on 14 June 2018 and the draft Act amending the Police and Border Guard Act. The purpose of the draft was to ensure that members of the Defence Forces and police officers and border guards who remained in special retirement pensions had at least the pension they would have had if the basis for calculating their pension had not been reduced by 8% since 1 July 2009. The amendments entered into force on 1 January 2020, from which the pensions of military, police and border guards retired before 1 January 2010 have been recalculated. The beneficiaries of the disability pension and survivor's pension were mistakenly excluded from the target group of the changes, although they were subject to the same regulation as the pension for the years earned by police officers. This means that the calculation of incapacity for work and survivors' pensions was also based on remuneration and, if this changed, the pension changed. Thus, when the salaries of police officers and border guards were reduced by 8% from 1 July 2009, the disability and survivors' pensions already granted to them were reduced by 8%. The law on police and border guards will be supplemented in the same way as the amendment which entered into force on 1 January 2020. The pension for years earned by a police officer will be recalculated from 1 January 2020, with no legal basis for recalculating disability and survivors' pensions. The target group for the amendment is police and border guards whose pension was granted from 1 July 2009 on the basis of reduced wage rates. The amendment concerns 15 former police officers and border guards, seven of whom were granted disability pensions and one survivor's pension before 1 January 2010 and seven police officers were entitled to disability pensions for the period from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2014. The first reading of the draft act took place on 12 May 2020 and the deadline for amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 15 May 2020. The Commission discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 1 June. The meeting was attended by Svetlana Master, Legal Adviser to the Human Resources Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior through a video bridge. The lead committee proposed one amendment to the draft. The Committee on Legal Affairs initiated an amendment to § 11918 (5). The amendment adds the word 'border guards' to paragraph 5. Paragraph 11918 (2) provides the basis for the recalculation of the disability pension of a border guard, and it is therefore necessary to clarify paragraph 5, which states: 'On the basis of subsections 1 to 4 of this section, the incapacity pension and survivor's pension of a police officer and a border guard shall be recalculated as from 1 January 2020. '. The Commission proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including by 9 June. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal is to refer the draft to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the third reading, including by 17 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U97	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. There is also one amendment to the draft, it has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the position of the commission is: take full account. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 161. The second reading is closed and the item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U98	Today's second item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Code of Civil Procedure. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 175 on the draft. I remind the members of the Riigikogu that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is necessary for the adoption of the draft. We are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Code of Civil Procedure 175. Please take a stand and vote. 90 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U99	Today's third item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Government of the Republic and other laws, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic in connection with the reorganisation into the Agricultural and Food Administration of the Office of the Agricultural and Veterinary and Food Administration. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 164 and we will go to the final vote on it. A majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 164 amending the Law of the Government of the Republic and other laws relating to the conversion of the Agricultural and Food Administration into the Agricultural and Food Administration, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U100	Today's fourth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on the External Action Service initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? No, it's not. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 45 on the draft. We're going to it. Ladies and gentlemen, can I put it straight to the vote? Nobody's against it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Foreign Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 45. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U101	The fifth item is the continuation of the second reading of the Trade Unions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Labour Working Conditions Act posted to Estonia and the Act amending other laws. I ask Signe Riisalo, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U103	Attention, colleagues. Let's listen to the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U104	Continuation of the second reading of the Trade Unions Act, the Workers' Working Conditions Act posted to Estonia and the Act amending other laws. As we know, we proposed that the Commission cancel the second reading last time, on the grounds that five laws were added to the draft, which was indeed the amendment of the Working Conditions Act for Posted Workers to Estonia. For all these laws, the reason was the decision of the Supreme Court of 2018 which assumed that the definition of employer would be clarified in different laws. Clarification of the definition of employer is essential for the Labour Inspectorate to carry out its daily work placements properly. The interruption also gave the parties the opportunity to propose amendments. During this period no amendments were tabled. The Commission discussed the draft for a second reading at its meeting on 1 June and 8 June. Ulla Saar, Head of Labour and Personnel Policy Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was also heard there. The procedural documents were also approved on 8 June. The Social Affairs Committee decided to submit a draft for the second reading in front of the Riigikogu plenary session by 10 June and to propose that the second reading be completed. If the second reading is completed, we will also have a consensual proposal to proceed with the third reading in this large Chamber on 17 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U105	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? Yeah, it's a negotiation request. Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As a general rule, 158 are a very good draft and, at least, a small but important step in the right direction. Please support me! This law offers solutions to the problems of labour migration, migrant workers and temporary workers. It also relates somewhat to the issue of immigration, namely the introduction of migrant workers, in order not to implement it, but rather to make better use of labour leases. Selme to bring here specialists and workers from the European Union, has so far been brought here from Ukraine to Nigeria. The EKRE is not in favour of such a scheme or of mass immigration, as it leads to economic, cultural, ideological and other problems that our small country would not survive well. Yesterday, Toomas Luman spoke of a smart immigration policy, and that was a very good idea. So let's talk about smart labour policies. There is a big difference between labour migration, economic migration and the rental of labour. It is clear, of course, that a small country like Estonia does not have all the specialists; from time to time, more workers are needed. That is precisely why the labour lease that this law regulates is the right thing to do. For Estonia, it is not sustainable to import large-scale migrant workers from third countries that violate laws, scheme, pay taxes, work black and carry out so-called slave labour, i.e. normalised working time, pay and rest periods are not regulated. We need to learn from smart countries, small countries that are resisting global migratory pressures, such as Israel or the United Arab Emirates. You know, in the United Arab Emirates, only three people who are non-Muslims have acquired citizenship. One of them was that trainer of Dinamo in Kiev, Lobanovskyy. The rest is governed by other laws. Therefore, we cannot take the form of the great powers here, but must find our smart solutions. If we really need the workforce, the specialists, we can order them here. We know who they are, where they come from, where they work, when they arrive, when they leave, how long they stay here, etc., so that all the papers are in order, taxes are due to the European Union and health is in order. Finally, once again, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U107	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 158. We're done with second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U108	Today's sixth item is the second reading of the draft law 179 on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of the construction code. Please waitress Jaak White, member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable technical staff. It is my continuing honour to be the rapporteur for this draft Committee on Culture, in the meantime I have not been reduced. As I mentioned at first reading, the draft is a transposition of the directive, rather a technical amendment to the transposition of this draft. The first reading of the draft was completed on 13 May. No amendments were tabled in the meantime. Stakeholders were asked for opinions, but they didn't come either. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading at its meetings on 1 and 8 June. Let's just say that there were no passionate disputes, in fact there were no disputes at all. However, at the last meeting, the Commission decided to make one amendment. None of the members of the Commission opposed. In fact, I dare say that if the Commission had been represented, for example, by the Free Party or the Biodiversity Party, their representatives would not have opposed it either. I dare say even more if this bill had been put to a referendum, we would have had very few voters against it. Perhaps we could have known then how many protesters we have. Indeed, according to this amendment, the law will enter into force on 15 July instead of 1 July, which was the original date. This amendment is therefore completely technical because, in the run-up to the second reading, it became clear that the Committee on Economic Affairs is changing the entire wording of the Technical Note to the Construction Code in its draft and wants this amendment to enter into force on 1 July. And now, in order to avoid a situation where the draft Committee on Economic Affairs would replace the norm comment in the building code so that the desired addition to the draft Committee on Culture would not be included in the wording, this draft will be put into effect on 15 July. I must also admit that the initiator, the Ministry of Education and Research, fully agrees with this amendment. The committee now proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, i.e. by 10 June, and also proposed that the second reading be stopped. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U110	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. There is one amendment to the draft, it has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have reviewed the amendment. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 179. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U111	Let's keep going. Today's seventh item is the second reading of draft law 142 on plant protection law, organic farming law, state fees law and plant reproductive and plant variety rights law, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Tarmo Tamme, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U112	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The text of the plant protection law, the organic farming law, the state fee law and the draft law amending plant reproductive and plant variety rights law at second reading should be supplemented by what took place between the two readings in the lead committee. The draft law amending the Plant Protection Act, the Law on organic farming, the State Tax Act and the Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Law was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 10 February 2020. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on April 21, 2020 and the first reading was completed. The Commission carried out an inclusion procedure between the two readings and asked stakeholders involved in the Ministry of Rural Affairs for an opinion on the draft. The Rural Affairs Committee was sent an opinion by the Organic Farming Cooperation Council, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, the Estonian Agricultural Chamber of Commerce, the Estonian Gardening Association, the Farmers' Cooperative KEVILI, Boreal Kasvinjalostus Oy, citizen L.R. and the Estonian Seed Association. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed draft law 142 on plant protection law, organic farming law, state fee law, plant reproductive and plant variety rights law for the preparation of the second reading at its meetings on 19 May and 1 and 2 June 2020. Representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs participated in the meetings, and representatives of the Agricultural Board, the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Seed Association took part in the meeting on 19 May. The main topic was the collection of data on varieties and seeds used in Estonia. The Ministry of Rural Affairs proposed the amendment of the law and repealing the rules laying down the corresponding obligation. The representative of the Ministry explained that he considered the requirements imposed to be burdensome and costly for the State and that the collection of plant variety data did not give the State significant input. There are methods which are less costly and burdensome to obtain the information that the country needs. Account must be taken of the fact that the collection of data on varieties means checks and that the supervisory authorities must have the capacity to provide data on varieties. The representative of the Ministry explained that Articles 35 and 36 of the Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Law provide for the rights of the holders of varieties to protect their interests. The representative of the Ministry added that since the regulation on the collection of data on varieties was not designed to protect the rights of the holders of varieties, but to collect the data which was deemed necessary for the State at the time, the holders of the variety cannot have a legitimate expectation of obtaining such data. To date, it is clear that this data is not recorded by the State in this form. This led to a proposal to repeal § 7 (1) TPSKS. At its meeting on 19 May, it was decided to continue the debate and asked the representatives of the Ministry to hold a meeting with the interest groups to find solutions to the dispute. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, representatives of the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation took part in the meeting on 1 June. Minister Aller informed the Commission that on 29 May representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Seed Association met to find a compromise on the collection of varietal data, but not all parties had a satisfactory solution. There was a consensus on the need to harmonise the national definition of small producers with those used in Council regulations. At its meeting on 2 June, the amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were reviewed and procedural decisions were taken. The deadline for submitting amendments was 5.15 p.m. on 6 May 2020, and one amendment was received by the Social Democratic Party Group. An amendment was tabled by the Ministry of Rural Affairs as representative of the initiator of the draft for consideration by the lead committee. Decisions on amendments were taken by the Commission by vote and are included in the list of amendments. The Commission supported all the amendments proposed by the lead committee. The Social Democratic Party Group's proposal, the content of which is to postpone the increase in state fees until 1 January 2023, was not supported. For the sake of readability, the explanations of the amendments have been left on the list of each amendment. Procedural decisions of the commission of directors. The commission adopted a decision to send a draft law 142 on plant protection law, organic farming law, state fee law and amendment of plant propagation and plant variety rights law, initiated by the Government of the Republic, to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 10 June 2020 with a proposal to terminate second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out a third reading on 15 June and to put the draft to the final vote on 142. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U113	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U114	Thank you, good manager. Perhaps you could shed some light on this hot spot in the so-called rural language, on the concern of the Seed Association and on the speedy amendment of some sections of the law that have now been adopted. Was the church still in the middle of the village, or is the grudge still in the ashes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U115	Thank you, dear questioner. I must admit that this grudge is still under the ashes because this compromise was not found. The Committee on Rural Affairs requested that the parties in the Ministry agree and then agree among themselves, because the various umbrella organisations could agree among themselves on how this remuneration would be collected from the seed of the variety and then reflected, but unfortunately no agreement was made. And since the Ministry has such a conclusion that the state does not need to collect these data, no good compromise has been found. As the questioner said, this grudge actually exists under the ashes and there is no real legal solution. The right thing to do is sit down and make a deal. Both the Confederation of Farmers and the Chamber of Commerce have expressed their willingness, and the Seed Association has also published it, but the compromise agreement has unfortunately not been born.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U116	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U117	Thank you. Mr President-in-Office of the Commission. Perhaps the future compromise is a digital field book that needs to be taken forward. But now what concerns our amendment. In the current situation, where this free money is in the government's hands with the right amount of money, for which reason or why was our amendment not supported to postpone the date of the state fees? I also apologise for the fact that, at that time or during the debate, I had already left the committee session. What was the reason why it was not supported? Because it would make perfect sense in today's case to postpone these new fees. Clearly, fees have an important role to play in all this supervision, there is no question about it, but in the current situation it could have been on 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U118	Thank you, dear questioner. Why you weren't on the committee and why you left, I don't have an answer for that. But as you well know, this state fee law was discussed at the beginning of the year. I remember that we all realized that we probably had the lowest state fees in the European Union, and to cover this cost, it was decided that the state fee should be harmonised, so we always look at neighbouring countries at least to the level of neighbouring countries. And we got there somewhere. Each tax is burdensome, and at the moment it may be particularly burdensome, but it was probably not appropriate to go back half a year to changing tax laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U119	Ivar Padar, please ask a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U120	Just the answer to why I left. Because by the time that the point of the debate came forward, the time had already reached about 16.07. Perhaps the formal time for the Commission meeting was over, and I was expected to be a great countryman with new responsibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U121	Thank you. Very important information. Let's continue. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You rightly pointed out that the Commission sought a compromise and that the disputes were quite heated. What also raised some question marks was why the Ministry of Rural Affairs left this amendment so late in the last minute and the discussions so late. Consequently, the question: could there be a legitimate expectation in the air that the holders of a seed variety would be able to sue or challenge the decision, precisely on the basis that this law had to apply already in the summer? How much risk do we really have with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U123	Thanks for the questions. The risk is definitely up and we discussed this on quite a number of occasions in the Commission. So we even discussed two days in a row in order to find a compromise that would be such that one could say: it certainly needs to be legally. But at least the representatives of the ministry claimed that there could be no such legitimate aspect of expectation. Their legal department and they are certain there is no such contradiction. But it is always possible to argue about the laws adopted by the Riigikogu. If a party to the Seed Association thinks that their rights have been violated here, they will certainly also turn to law enforcement authorities. But at least the ministry's firm position is that there is no such contradiction. I agree with the fact that such good legislative practice has been violated here. The law actually came into force from 1 January, and immediately before 30 June, this law was amended. So I admit it's not good practice. But in order to go further now, the Commission decided that the better option would be if we changed this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U124	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U125	Good manager! Like you said, the grudge is under the ashes, the church wasn't built in the middle of the village. And the hope is that one day, when the digital field book comes, maybe this church will come up. But my question is, why did the farmers' organizations so suddenly change their minds? The law was only passed, and the brothers agreed, but now suddenly you changed your mind. Where did the wind-flag mentality come from all of a sudden? Please open up some of that background!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U126	Thank you. That is a good question, I also asked the Commission about it. When this law was passed, all the agricultural organisations agreed. But they now justified it by the fact that it was burdensome for them. And they have also found the reason that this agreement should not have a country in the meantime, i.e. they should be able to agree themselves between seed-growing organisations and then representative agricultural organisations, be they a farm union or an agricultural Chamber of Commerce. That's supposed to be their deal. In the meantime, yes, views have changed and both the Farmers' Confederation and the Chamber of Agriculture supported the amendment of the law in this form. But last time, they supported the adoption of the law. So the question is justified. We have not conducted such an investigation in the Commission, why they changed their minds and what this wind direction means.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U127	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good chairman of the committee! Indeed, there was a serious debate in the Commission on this one point and there were, in general, many proposals and opinions. One was the legal opinion and the question whether the withdrawal of this collection of varietal data is not against the Constitution. What was the position of the initiator, or ministry, of the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U129	Thank you. It is true that representatives of the Seed Association have also hired a law firm to represent their positions and positions. As has been said here before, this argument is, in a sense, in the air. But in itself, if we knew that the draft law was against the Constitution, I, as chairman of the committee, should not come here to defend it. Well, that's an issue, isn't it? This dispute will either move forward or a second option will be chosen, i.e. it will be agreed between the two parties how data will be collected in the future and how seed growers will receive a fair return. Because, in fact, this content is even deeper than the protection of intellectual property. The holders of a seed variety shall be entitled to a fair remuneration for those varieties. There is also a question and a dispute about how many years he could get whether he could get two or three years or ten years. So they have not yet been able to agree on this. But there is no way to put all this in place in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U130	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question is perhaps motivated by Mr Ernits' question of why they changed their minds. Was it not the case that the farmers' representatives said that this system, which is now, how data must be provided, was not implemented in the way that the agreement was? And this agreement meant that it should be very bureaucratic, IT well-solved, but now, in principle, more papers should be produced. This was one of the main reasons why the Ministry did not implement the technical solution in the same way as the previous discussions in history.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U132	Thank you. Yes, no solution had been found during this six months and it would have become very burdensome for the farmer in this context, because such an electronic solution had not been devised for that period and this development had not been carried out. So, yeah, maybe then the farmers were considering whether it's really right to walk around with some paper-based data these days. That could be one reason. But yes, agricultural origins have changed their position. And that may indeed be one reason that this application and development had not been developed by the time it was supposed to exist. By the end of this month, this data should have been provided in accordance with the law in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U133	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U134	Good manager! Good chairman of the committee! A simple question: who did not do the job? Is that what happens when a department or a ministry doesn't work, we change the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U135	Thank you, Aivar! That's a good question. I asked the same question. Once the law has been passed and is in force, the state cannot argue that it is expensive or expensive or something else. This cannot be the basis and justification for amending the law. But, let's say, in order to get out of this situation and find some sort of legal solution to this issue at all, we unfortunately had to choose this path. But I agree that this cannot be an argument. Once the law is passed, it will be enforced. In fact, for six months this law was not complied with. But the law is enforced by ministries and agencies. So in that respect, I agree with your criticism one hundred percent. We have asked about this on several occasions in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U136	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U137	Thank you for your good answer. Perhaps you will specify who specifically has failed to comply with the law. And has the same authority that has failed to comply made a bill to change the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U138	I guess this belongs to the field of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the law that is currently in force and which we are now going to change. Let us say, then, that there is also a need to look at the reasons why this has not been done and the solutions. Let's say that the amendments to the bill came out only in May, so it was probably only then that it was understood that, in this form, it would not be possible to implement and comply with the law. Unfortunately, that is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U139	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? Yes, Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! Perhaps what we discussed today is of little interest to such a broad public. And there is a question of what we are discussing here at all. But I think there are a couple of very important ideological points here, not party-ideological, but value-based ideologies. One is that property protection is not really a joke, intellectual property protection is also. Therefore, I am convinced that farmers or anyone using varieties, bred varieties, and people who have taken care of it and invested in it, can and must receive a fair reward. As a result, this heel turn here is precisely the case for the entry into force of this part, which also concerns the deadline for declaring these possible varieties of cultivations, in my opinion, has been a bad surprise from the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The second thing is that if I remember correctly the previous discussions that took place in the drafting of this law, it was also one of the key issues that the state actually has and must have the opportunity to find digital solutions in order for this possible declaration to be very convenient and simple. Today, we have to admit with sadness that when we asked the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Rural Affairs about what the world's practice was and how one thing or another could be implemented, we did not get very good reasons there. We know that Finns, northern neighbours, for example, have the opportunity to make such a declaration through the PRIA database. Instead, we have come to a new dispute as to whether the country should be here in one way or the other, whether breeders and users of seeds should be able to agree among themselves. After all, this problem has actually come to the law through the fact that this long-term agreement has not been reached in this way. If we say that 700000 or 600000, which, at first glance, is missing in this market, seems to be a small amount of money next to these billions, then it must be acknowledged that this is probably not the case. It's quite a lot of money for those people who work with these varieties. And it would be quite fair for that to be the case. Who wouldn't like to get free records from the store or go to free theatre for life, enjoy performances or read books that you don't have to pay for at all, but it's certainly not sustainable until the end. That is why I, who I have come to this remote control for this reason, hope, and we have also said in the Committee on Rural Affairs that, even if this change is being implemented in this large Chamber and this relief is being done, at first glance, to the detriment of plant breeders, in fact, the Ministry must go clearly ahead with this issue and argue very clearly to the end what its intellectual property is like. Do we really not be able to use e-government solutions that are convenient, fast-filled and understandable to everyone? I don't personally believe that. So that was the reason for my modest speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U141	Thank you. Merry Aart, speaking up? Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U142	I was wrong, I would have liked to say a few words from that remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U143	Yeah, but turn on the other one, call button. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U144	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment a little on this issue, as the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs have all spoken well here. It's never very one-sided. This law was adopted, as I recall, in 2018, with the clause that this item will enter into force on 1 January 2019. I hope I remember correctly. There are several parties here. On the one hand, there are legitimate expectations for seed owners, who are also largely behind foreign companies and importers, not just our own producers. On the other hand, expectations are also justified for those who will pay this fee. And no one, neither producers nor producer organisations, has said that they are not prepared to pay this money. But what did they say? They said that they did not understand, that they had not been negotiated, that the seed union had not bothered to negotiate where the money was going, who it was going, what exactly were the fees they would pay from the moment on. I mean, there's a lot of confusion. And the proposal why it was taken out was, in fact, that when it is spoken out, if both parties understand well enough why it is done, how it is done, where the money is going, and what the result is, then they are prepared to pay. So here are the negotiating questions. The current law also does not prohibit seed owners from receiving remuneration, except that it is not for them by the State, but it is their umbrella organisation's seed union. If the Seed Association has enough money to protect its rights through Sorainen, who, as we all know, is not a very cheap company, then I would like to ask why the Seed Association cannot, in cooperation with producers, charge producers that fee. Producers have never said that they are not prepared to pay, but that it is simply a matter of ignorance and confusion. And even now, the position of the ministry was that we're taking it down right now. If the parties agree among themselves on how these things are done, so that all parties are clear, we will come back to this. The country also said that large-scale data collection should be carried out and that it would be possible to produce an electronic field book through which such data could be collected. It's actually behind this thing. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U145	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U146	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we discussed this issue quite long and comprehensively in the Commission. And in the end, we were still forced to vote. That decision was not entirely unanimous. I am happy to explain why we have chosen such solutions. Indeed, unfortunately, the situation is such that two sides of seed producers and farmers-farmers who use this seed have not today reached quite a clear agreement or cooperation between themselves on their royalties or on the fees paid for intellectual property. Both have been in a position of expectation and this law has actually been a substantive obstacle. Both have had their own expectations, and the main reason why it has not come to fruition is that a national bureaucratic mechanism has been built between it, on which the parties have the opinion that they should do their job and that they should do nothing but send out only bills and farmers perhaps want to talk about lower fees so that they can agree. It is certainly not the country that should build some bureaucratic solutions between themselves if the two parties could agree at a table and find mutually satisfactory solutions. This is definitely a very important nuance. And the second is actually that we are applying the criteria agreed in the European Union. Unfortunately, we have had such a custom that we want to be, as they say, more holy than the Pope himself. If the European Union agrees on some kind of frame, we will turn on not one, but two or three or four more. On these issues, too, we found that certain things were not right. Indeed, our farmers too must compete with other European countries, and we have no reason to expect that they deserve to be in any way less competitive in the market as a result of the rules that we ourselves have put in place. Those were the two main moments. And by this we did not say that seedbreeders who put their work and intellectual capital in it would not deserve a corresponding reward. Yes, they do. But that is why we need to create a mechanism that will bring them to a common table and force them to agree in some ways. Both parties must give in to this. This was the essence and content of all this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U147	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U148	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It's just this discussion I thought I'd still have to come here. While I was in charge of the Commission, I must admit that we in the Commission happened that all the decisions for the two years were taken by consensus. I think that this is perhaps the kind of historical situation that it is very difficult for itself to repeat, even in another committee. But think a little bit about all the suggestions for improvement when they're made. If any agency or ministry fails to do anything, there is no point in blaming economic operators. On this draft, the principle was very simple: the PRIA controls all the fields anyway, because there are not many fields where producers do not want to receive support from the PRIA. Even then, it was said that today there is no problem taking pictures of space to find out where something is. It was just the information that had to reach the seed growers or the shippers. If it is said here that most of the seeds have come from abroad, you could look at the budget for the loss of the plant protection institute next to Jõgeva. This order of magnitude is EUR 400000-500000 every year, because we are now not complying with the law and now we are amending the law, if I understand correctly now. It should always be deepened, and perhaps you could ask, just as Urmas was in the same place during the previous term of office, in the same committee, whether the things that are to be changed are exactly the things that need to be changed, or whether some authorities are not doing anything. When it comes to the lack of money, I can tell you that this is why the year has been taken forward so that it can be resolved from next year's state budget if there is a need. But if it hasn't been solved, then someone has still failed to do something. Power-kick!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U149	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiations. There are 14 amendments to the draft and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Rural Affairs Committee, the position of the lead committee: take full account. The second amendment, as well as the position of the lead committee proposed by the Committee on Rural Affairs, should be taken fully into account. The third amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account. The fourth amendment, the position proposed by the Committee on Rural Affairs, of the lead committee: take full account. Fifth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. The sixth amendment, as well as the position proposed by the Committee on Rural Affairs, of the lead committee: take full account. The seventh amendment, also tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs, is the position of the commission: take full account. The eighth amendment, the position proposed by the Committee on Rural Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The ninth amendment, the position of the steering committee proposed by the Committee on Rural Affairs, is to be taken fully into account. The tenth amendment, the proposal tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 11, tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. Amendment 12, proposed by the Committee on Rural Affairs, position of the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 13, tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. And last amendment 14, tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the lead committee: to be disregarded. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U150	Thank you. Since a good colleague, Kersti Sarapuu, had such intel that an amendment would be voted on with this draft, he would not be deceived or wasted. So on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U151	Thanks for the offer. We will vote on this amendment. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 14 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 54 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 142. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U152	Today's eighth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 4 May. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The draft amends the Act of the Government of the Republic and 38 other laws with the aim of combining government agencies of the Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Inspectorate. The first reading of the draft decision took place on 13 May. No amendments were received from Riigikogu members and political groups by the deadline of 27 May, including 17.15. The Commission discussed the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 1 June, attended by representatives of the Environment Agency. During the meeting, the Commission also took appropriate decisions on the further processing of the draft, and they were all consensual. The Commission proposes that the second reading of the draft be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, that the final vote on the draft be taken next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U154	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I open negotiations for members of the Riigikogu. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U155	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On two occasions, it's a plan to mate them, two institutions, in our hall, completely failed, with a forehead against the wall. The third test is now, although, yes, the preparations are much greater. It is quite difficult for me to support this bill. But I'm going to tell you a little detail that shows that maybe I should support you. I think Chekhov once said that glass is a reflection of the whole world and reality. And look at all I've asked for here in the Committee on the Environment, the things that are allowed, the things that happen. Effectiveness increases ten times or more in time, and the world suddenly gets better. I was wondering if the current officials in these different institutions have just been playing around and fooling their own people, that now suddenly this kind of turbo mode, life will get better. But let's talk specifically. Karl Laas, who is the leader of this project, also, at my request, sent a letter to the members of the Commission. There's only one thing we're talking about. When your forest, if you are the owner of the forest, is landed, for example, by a frog eagle. It's easy. I'm just talking about one thing. How soon can we take this area into protection or, on the contrary, if the eagle is no longer present, deduct it? It's ten years now. And what does the respected project manager Karl Laas say? 'Considering the planned changes in the organisation of work, we will also be able to offer faster procedures at the joint office in the future, hopefully in 3 to 4 years we will reach a situation where private countries will be able to decide to take nature values into protection over 1 to 2 years instead of the current 5 to 10. ' This means that the landlord will receive the benefits paid more quickly. And, of course, details. There are other assumptions that should be made and a time horizon for changes. I quote: 'The changes are staged, and the first effect will probably come to my attention! just amending the legislation with regard to simplification of coordination circles and procedures. ' Second: more time will be needed to change the cross-use of research data. ' And summary: The time horizon for the outcome of the legislative changes is 1 to 2 years after accession, 2 to 3 years on other issues. Therefore, if the roads go to the given amount of work, a considerable shortening of the procedural deadlines could be expected in three or four years' time. Very pretty! But let's remember history. The Minister of the Environment was our dear colleague, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, was the spring of 2012 on 10 April. The Chancellor of Justice was then Indrek Teder. And what did he write to Minister Pentus? The Ministry of the Environment has violated good administrative practice in order to protect the nest of small-scale eagles when establishing a permanent residence, as it has not been possible to decide to establish a permanent residence within ten years of finding the nest. The unreasonable length of proceedings violates the right to personal property, etc. The Chancellor of Justice also talks about how the exclusion takes place. He says this: 'Considering that, by excluding the area from the fixed sites, the operating restrictions imposed on the owner of the property by the eagle nest will disappear, the speed of the administrative procedure in such cases is particularly important and the delay is extremely important for the proper administration of property rights and rights. " Of course, he also tells the Minister that he has not provided convincing explanations to justify the procedure for the continued conservation of nature for ten years. The year was spring 2012. And he resyntheses: The permanent habitat must be formed in months rather than in years. That's what Chancellor Teder said eight years ago in April. In short, a permanent residence must be formed in months rather than over a period to be measured in years, but it may, at best, amount to a couple of years. However, regardless of the circumstances, a 10-year period cannot be regarded as a reasonable period of time. After Keit Pentus, Marko Pomerants has been appointed Minister of the Environment...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U156	Dear waitress, do you need more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U157	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U158	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U159	... and Siim Valmar Kisler. Nothing's happened. Yes, if this promise to these terms that we are now finally going to make it a small detail, well, then we could support this draft. What's our business here? It would be up to us that the country and the people who live here, that they should not be pededated, perhaps sacked, as they say in the language of the earth, for ten years with an eagle when he lands there or disappears. The country should be effective and transparent. And now, when this Environmental Board and inspection are merged, we are promised under certain conditions that in the end, this happiness will come and people will not have to die in the meantime when the eagle has landed on its nest in its forest or has flown away from it. Now, unexpectedly, such lightning and speed arrives. But I stress that the Chancellor of Justice said that eight years ago. It is embarrassing that in these days, we are dealing with things that we do not know, and we are basically taunting our people. This detail forces us to think that we could support this bill if something really gets better. But I'm just talking about the details. As Chekhov said, the whole world can be reflected in a glass fragment. That's all I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U160	Thank you. Siim Kiisler has the right to reply because the name was mentioned. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U161	I just have a speech, I think it should be two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U162	Speaking is two minutes, yes. Plus, there's one minute to reply if you want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U163	Yeah, I agree a lot with the previous speaker here. This bill is certainly one step towards cutting red tape. I am very sorry that not for ten years, but perhaps for about two years it has been in the Riigikogu, using the words of the previous speaker, the draft reduction of red tape that has been beetd and sacked, and twice it has been failed. The previous speaker, too, is not at all clean of this sin. So I hope that now this sacking will be stopped and this law on cutting red tape will finally be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U164	Thank you. No more members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate. No amendments were tabled to the draft. The Governing Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of 184. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U165	Today's ninth item is the second reading of the draft law 157 on amendments to the Road Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Mr Riho Breiveli, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U166	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Road Transport Act and related other laws was put on the agenda on 9 March at the initiative of the Government of the Republic. And the reason why it was taken is that the European Union's standards must be brought into line with our road transport law, or rather our road transport law must be brought into line with EU standards. This means, in fact, some technical changes concerning the way in which drivers say, the documentation, which also concerns the rights to drive certain categories of vehicles and, accordingly, which training must be completed and which documents must be in order to be able to travel within the territory of the European Union. The first reading took place on 9 May and the deadline for submitting proposals for amendments was set at 20 May. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, committees or political groups. The procedure of the draft was notified in Parliament to the Association of Car Companies, the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers, the Motor Schools Association, the Estonian Transport and Road Workers Association, the Estonian Agricultural Chamber of Commerce, the Estonian Association of Car Sales and Service Companies and the Estonian Association of Technologists. No opinions or proposals were received from them, even though they were taken up by almost everyone who was in contact with this law. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading at its meeting on 1 June and 8 June, in which representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also participated. Certain amendments accordingly came from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and were examined by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Commission accepted the wording of the proposals in the Rules of Procedure set out in the opinion received from the initiators and proposed five amendments to the draft as the lead committee. The text of the draft act has sometimes passed through the language at the two readings and technical and linguistic changes have been made to the draft act, which in no case alters the content of the draft act. Procedural decisions and proposals from the Committee on Economic Affairs are as follows: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading today, by 10 June and to conclude the second reading. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading is the final vote on 17 June, which is next week. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U167	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Amendments were also tabled, five amendments were tabled. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, is the position of the commission: take full account. The second amendment, as well as the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The third amendment, tabled by the lead committee, is also to be taken fully into account. The fourth amendment tabled by... [[Browse papers.]] We're about to ID it. Economic Commission, position of the lead committee: take full account. And the fifth amendment, which has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 157 and the second reading is to be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U168	We will proceed, today's tenth item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and the Ordering of Arts Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Kalev Kallo, member of the Economic Commission, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U169	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and the Ordering of Arts Act was at first reading in this Chamber on 11 May. By 5.15 p.m. on 25 May, the Economic Committee received an amendment from Signe Kivi, a member of the Riigikogu. The Commission met at its meeting on 1 June to discuss the referral of the draft to second reading and to examine the amendments. In addition to the members of the committee, the advisers of the Public Procurement and State Aid Department of the Ministry of Finance, Evelin Karindi-Kask and Triin Paljak, the chief specialist of the Environmental Management Department of the Ministry of the Environment, Liis Kaar, and the author of the amendment, member of the Riigikogu Signe Kivi, were invited. The Commission discussed the amendments tabled, firstly the proposal by Signe Kivi. The author of the amendment, Signe Kivi, explained that the amendment he tabled was intended to increase the price level of the work to be procured from EUR 65000 to EUR 110000. This would be the percentage by which the threshold for the procurement of construction would also be raised. The author of the amendment also stated that 110 were accidentally 105 when writing the explanation. Perhaps the amendment itself intended to raise the ceiling to EUR 110000, but the explanatory memorandum annexed to it was always talking about EUR 105000. Ms Evelin Karindi-Kask, Adviser to the Public Procurement and State Aid Department of the Ministry of Finance, confirmed that the initiator had given green light to the draft and no objections had been raised. The maximum ceiling purchase obligation has lasted 10 years and it would be time to raise it, as it is already in the way of time. Commission Chairman Sven Sester asked that, if there is a numerical difference in the explanation of the amendment, does this mean that the Commission should make an amendment under its own name, in which the explanation corrects the number and considers Signe Kivi's amendment to be substantially taken into account or that the Commission could vote on Signe Kivi's amendment and the number 110 goes into law. The Commission found that this second option would be followed, i.e. the vote will be carried out and the number 110 will be included in the proposal. On the other hand, the Commission itself made one amendment. As we know, the draft was received earlier by the Riigikogu, but due to the corona crisis the procedure was delayed and the deadline for the law to enter into force on 1 June was no longer possible by the time it was discussed in the committee. The Commission therefore proposed that the law be in force on 15 July. In addition, Signe Kivi proposed an amendment which amended § 2 (3) of the Ordering of Works of Arts Act, and therefore it was proposed that the procurements may have already been carried out and that it be possible to prepare for the procurements in order for this paragraph to apply on 1 January 2021. And for the sake of history, the first law to require the order of works of art came into force on 1 January 2011, so it has taken ten years. Indeed, time has changed so much that it makes sense to change the price level. Both amendments were supported by consensus by the Committee on Economic Affairs and it was also decided to make the following organisational proposals: firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 June (also by consensus), secondly, to propose the termination of the second reading (a decision was also taken by consensus), thirdly, to propose that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed, by 17 June (also by consensus), and fourthly, to propose the final vote on the draft on 17 June (also by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U170	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Two amendments to the draft were tabled. First amendment tabled by Ms Kivi, position of the commission: take full account. And the second amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. The commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 177 and the second reading is to be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U171	Today's 11th item is the second reading of the draft law amending the State Border Act 178. Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U172	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and those behind the monitors in their offices, listening and watching carefully. I am pleased to be before you with the draft law amending the state border law and, at second reading, to report to you what has happened between the first reading and the second reading. In short, I would just like to remind you that this is a draft aimed at improving the surveillance and protection of national borders and clarifying the issues of the border regime, which is a border zone, etc., and also changes the way vehicles enter road border crossing points. Within the deadline for the submission of the amendments between the first and second readings, this deadline was 18 May, we did not receive any changes. A meeting took place in the Commission on 1 June 2020, led by me, Paul Puustusmaa, and took part in Kalle Grünthal, Kaja Kallas, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobenik, Lauri Läänemets, Hanno Pevkur, Martin Repinski and Taavi Rõivas. There were no major clarifications on this, as I said, and neither were there any amendments. Procedural decisions were taken, all of which were taken by consensus. These decisions were such on the proposal of the Commission: to place the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 10 June, to close the second reading, and when the second reading of the draft is completed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a third reading by 17 June 2020 and then to hold the final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U173	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? Yes, Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U174	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As the question is at the border, I cannot not miss the remote control, because the border issue is extremely important to the country. If there is no border, there is no country. When the line disappears, independence disappears. That's what our first border guard, Paul, said. The border issue is very serious. If we are talking about a national border at all, then the national border is a defence object. It's got to be understood that he's a defense object. In times of peace, he will, of course, perform an internal security function, but if we do not understand that his ultimate function is still to protect the country, then we will not understand many of the things that are in the country. And I generally want all politicians to understand that this is what is important. The country is also protected by border guards, who are national guards, not internal security workers, because under certain conditions the border disappears and the border guard disappears as such. It's when you run over. Where's the run-over? Ukraine. We know that there was no national border between Ukraine and the present territory that was analysed and that there was no border protection in the sense that there would have been border guards as guardians of state. There were cops there. The result is that a song has crossed the border and this territory has been taken away. Ukraine has now brought its border from Donetsk to this side, and it currently has a military structure under the command of the Commander of the Defence Forces, which is precisely this section of the border. Because it's natural, it can't be any different. This is why, of course, the changes that have been read out today are also very necessary, because the border regime, the border zone, the border operations are all essential for border protection and border control at this time of peace. Of course, this law must be supported and taken forward. And we need to move forward with the whole border problem, just as we are already going, but we need to get even more serious, because there is still no understanding of the national defence component. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U175	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 178. The second reading has been completed and the 11th item has also been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U176	Today's 12th item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act, Income Tax Act and Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Taavi Rõivas, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There have been quite a number of laws with the same name in the Riigikogu proceedings here recently. Just to remind you that 145 is primarily about temporary agency workers and reducing the misuse of the rules for working in Estonia. The Commission was remembered to be consensual in favour of completing the first reading of this draft. At second reading, we also had a very serious atmosphere and serious discussions. As always in the case of laws with significant impact, we considered it necessary to involve interest groups. The Estonian Trade Union Confederation, the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Employers' Confederation submitted their comments. In addition, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we asked for an opinion from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs, both of whom supported this draft. We also held a separate meeting so that the views of employers, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Telecommunications Union and the Union of Trade Unions could be heard. This meeting was held on May 19th. We did not make any procedural decisions there, but there was a very thorough debate. Some problems came up, such as those where the text of the law could be understood in many ways. One question was that, if there is one construction site and there is a main contractor, a subcontractor, but the contractor's employee turns out to be anything that does not comply with the documents, who is in fact responsible. We wanted to go ahead now, with an amendment on which we proposed to do so already at the next sitting of the Commission, unambiguously and clearly to dismantle it, that the primary responsibility in this case lies directly at the salary time of the employee, and in certain cases it can also be the main contractor, but not the contracting authority, which in fact, is de facto impossible to monitor all the workers who may be on the subject, even in a single day, for a few hours, because it would become a disproportionate administrative burden. All in all, we have made three amendments. It can be said directly that they were all motivated by the engagement session in which we revisited these topics. The content of the first amendment is to clarify the provision of the law in such a way as to be unambiguously understood: the provision does not apply to the contracting authority. It concerns exactly what I said, responsibility for who operates the object. Let us be clear about who is the user's entrepreneur. This is the entrepreneur with whom an alien actually and directly works and who distributes orders to an alien. The second amendment introduces specific provisions of the Aliens Act when the burden of proof arises. This can occur when an alien works in Estonia under the favourable conditions laid down in the Aliens Act. With the third amendment, we changed the enforcement of the law. In fact, the time went its way and the original date of entry into force, the time of 31 March came to an end that year, namely that date. We then decided that this law would enter into force in general. And since there are also some amendments to the Income Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act, we agreed that it would be appropriate to apply the so-called six-month rule, which is actually a requirement of the law. True, it has not always been followed, but this time we decided that it should be followed in any case. In other words, these provisions of the Taxation and Income Tax Act will enter into force on 1 January. I am pleased to announce that all these amendments received the support of all the Members of the Commission, with the same vote for all: in favour 8, against 0, abstentions 0. We decided unanimously to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 June, and we also unanimously proposed that the second reading be stopped. And now, if ladies and gentlemen so decide that the second reading will be closed, the consensus proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to put the draft on the plenary agenda for the third reading and to hold a final vote on 17 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U178	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Three amendments have been tabled. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is the position of the commission: take full account. The second amendment, as well as the position of the lead committee proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, should be taken fully into account. And the third amendment, the position of the lead committee put forward by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: take full account. We have examined the amendments, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 145. The second reading is finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U179	Today's 13th item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Constitutional Support Act and the Foreign Communications Act for the period 2014-2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Dmitri Dmitriyev, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U180	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the Government of the Republic actually initiated the draft on 19 December last year and we had a sufficiently long break between the first and second readings, I would remind you that the draft specifies the implementation of the operational programme for investing in growth and jobs under cohesion policy for the European Union period 2014 to 2020. The draft regulates more specifically the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance, which is primarily the task of the Member State and of the State Support Services Centre, as the main responsibility of the managing authority in the preparation and implementation of the operational programme. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading on six occasions: 9 March, 10 March and 20 April, 11 May and 1 and 2 June. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the State Support Services Centre took part in the meetings. In the course of the procedure, a number of questions arose at Commission meetings, in particular as regards point 7 of the draft text. In the same period, § 26 (6) and § 28 (3) of the Structural Support Act increase the threshold from EUR 5000 to EUR 20000, from which non-contractors must comply with the principles of § 3 of the Public Procurement Act. In principle, the questions raised by the members of the Commission concerned the unequal treatment of undertakings which might arise when increasing the threshold, including factors leading to circumvention of at least three pieces of the offer. Further clarification was also sought on ensuring unfair competition and fraud, including the avoidance of procurement cutting. The Ministry of Finance provided its explanations confirming that the amendment does not affect internal procurement procedures or exempt the general principles set out in § 3 of the Public Procurement Act. At the same time, the change reduces the administrative burden on the administration of structural instruments for the control of procurement and the administrative burden on beneficiaries when purchasing supplies, services and works and verifying compliance. The implementing entities will use a risk-based assessment for future inspections, which means that even in the case of smaller purchases, the reasonableness and appropriateness of the costs will be verified and such a horizontal principle will not be lost. The avoidance of cutting-up of procurements is also seen in compliance with Section 3 of the Public Procurement Act, so that the parties to public procurement, traders and non-profit organisations do not act with the aim of evading bid-taking. This aspect will be examined at the award application stage in the verification of the procurement plan, in the verification of the procurement documents at the grant payment application compared to the project activities of the procurement plan and then in ex post controls. The audit authority shall also examine the work of the donors in this regard. The work of the auditors is supervised by the European Commission, which in turn is supervised by the European Court of Auditors. The second issue raised by the Commission during its meetings concerned, in principle, the amendment of the regulation for the recovery of interest and interest on late payment and payment during the emergency period, but the proposal received on 4 May was withdrawn by the initiator himself. Thus, by summing up no amendments that were submitted by the deadline of 5 February, members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday 10 June, to conclude the second reading and to carry out the third reading on 17 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U181	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 129. Second reading complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U182	Today's 14th item is the second reading of the draft law on prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending other laws 130. And I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U183	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Commission dealt with the draft law amending the AML/CFT Act and other laws 130 at its meeting of 10 March, 21 April, 12 and 18 May and 2 June. I would remind you that the draft will transpose the so-called Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive in the European Union and introduce a number of international anti-money laundering standards within Estonia. The aim of the draft is therefore to improve the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing from Estonia. We are also preparing Estonia's anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing framework for the forthcoming international assessment. The draft establishes a bank account register linking Estonian credit and payment institutions, establishes an establishment plan for persons with national backgrounds and creates a mechanism to improve the quality of the data of actual beneficiaries in the business register. It will also increase the possibilities to monitor the compliance of banks with international financial actions, introduce additional measures to protect whistleblowers and improve the exchange of information between banks, notaries and other obligated parties. Twenty-one organisations connecting market participants and six public authorities were involved in the draft procedure. The procedure was long but necessary both for the negotiation and consideration of the draft as well as for changes made during the procedure, together with market participants, ministries and authorities. On a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and repeatedly involving organisations in the field, the Commission finally decided to make 26 changes to the draft. The amendments have been explained in detail in the list of amendments, including the main views of those involved and the formulation of the final wording of the changes described. When reviewing the list of amendments, I would point out that a number of amendments consist of points which, by reason of their interrelation, have been tabled as one amendment. All amendments were proposed by the lead committee in a consensual manner in the draft. I would like to draw attention to Amendment 14, which transfers the FIU from the structure of the Police and Border Guard Board to the area of administration of the Ministry of Finance as an independent body. The aim of the transfer is to bring together policy-making and practical implementation in a single place. In this way, the Ministry of Finance will develop greater synergies between institutions in the area of governance of similar objectives, in particular with the Financial Supervision Authority and the Tax and Customs Board. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft be stopped and when the second reading is completed, we ask that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading by the next Tuesday, i.e. 16 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U184	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. 26 amendments were tabled to the draft; we will examine them in one piece. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is the position of the commission: take full account. The second amendment, as well as the position of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. The third amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is to be taken fully into account. The fourth amendment, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, should be taken fully into account. Fifth amendment, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, from the lead committee: take full account. The sixth amendment, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, should be taken fully into account. The seventh amendment, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, should be taken fully into account. The eighth amendment, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, should be taken fully into account. The ninth amendment, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, should be taken fully into account. The tenth amendment, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, should be taken fully into account. Amendment 11, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 12, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 13, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 14, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 15, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 16, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 17, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs: take full account. Amendment 18, as well as from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, should be fully taken into account. Amendment 19, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 20, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 21, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to take full account. Amendment 22, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 23, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 24, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 25, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to be fully taken into account. And last amendment 26, as well as from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the position of the commission: take full account. We have examined the amendments. The position of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 130. The second reading is closed and the 14th item is under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U185	Today's 15th item is the second reading of the draft Law amending the Alcohol Act, the Local Government Organisation Act and the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit and the Income Tax Act. Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U186	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of the second reading of the Law amending the Law on the organisation of local government and the Law on the financial management of local government was discussed at the meeting on 2 and 9 June. At its meeting on 9 June, the commission decided to add two amendments to the draft. On 9 June the Head of the Department of Financial Management of Local Authorities of the Ministry of Finance, Sulev Liivik, and Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department, were invited to the discussion. The draft extends the deadlines for the adoption of changes to the budget strategy and development plan of local governments and, consequently, the submission of the draft budget and explanatory memorandum to the council. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 June and to propose that the second reading be closed. The second reading of the draft will take place today, 10 June, on the basis of the changes made to the agenda for this working week of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U187	Thank you. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U188	I still need to talk a little more. At the meeting on 9 June, the proposal to amend the taxation of income from Natura 2000 private forest subsidies was also discussed in the Income Tax Act. Lemmi Oro explained that forest income should be accounted for separately under the current law. The Act amending the laws relating to the State Supplementary Budget for 2020 adopted in April extended the current forest income tax exemption to the revenues of the Natura 2000 private forest subsidies. At present, however, the Agricultural Registers and Information Board, or the PRIA grant, is withholding income tax before it is paid out. It is unreasonable for a person to apply for this deferred share of income tax. The amendment is therefore technical and does not require any prior withholding of income tax. However, in order for the Tax and Customs Board to be able to pre-fill the declarations correctly, the changes made by the PRIA require that the names and amounts of the persons receiving the Natura 2000 private forest support be communicated to the Tax and Customs Board. Since the initial concession entered into force from the beginning of this year, the amendment should also enter into force from the beginning of the year. The second proposal is to clarify the requirements for the display of alcoholic beverages in the store's sales hall. This is based on the desire that small shoppers do not argue with officials. If alcoholic beverages can be placed behind the counter in a shop in such a way that the buyer does not get them from there, the drinks need not be placed in a separate room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U189	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are still questions for you. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U190	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. It was as if Aivar himself insisted on asking questions, and he started talking. My question is that this bill has, in the meantime, been titled an amendment to the 'Alcohol Law and... " It made me read it more. It seems that this is the first amendment. And my question is that, when you read the explanation of this amendment, neither the Commission nor the Ministry have written this explanation, it seems to be written by some law firm. Who, then, has finally made this amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U191	Thank you. When you transpose this original text from the law, it's practically the same, but it's an explanation. And this is the Commission's proposal for a correction. About two years ago, Evgeny remembers perhaps more precisely we discussed and discussed this topic. This is the bill that was in the government exchange period was. When the government had the Reform Party, the Social Democrats, and the Fatherland, it was initiated, but it was already adopted during the next government. There was an agreement that in small shops where there is little surface and there is no way to put alcohol around the wall, alcohol is behind the seller, so people cannot take it themselves. There are two concerns in small shops: one is that this alcohol is being stolen, literally, and the other is what our concern is that drug addicts and minors can access alcohol. And then it was agreed that in small shops, if so, it would be allowed. But sadly, when the draft was discussed and tried to argue about its square meters and everything else after the first reading, in the end, the wording was made which is now interpreted in one way in some counties and in another exactly in the other. When you look around in different counties of Estonia and when officials go to the shops to check it out, you can see it. And now we see how many small shops there are in rural areas. The small traders association has a total of around 200 shops, perhaps some less, and in the same order of magnitude there are generally more private shops. So if we're here crying that post offices are being shut down in the villages, I think it's a lot harder to shut down a grocery store somewhere in the village. That's why we just specified this bill. To be honest, the last one and a half or two years are, I believe, all members of the Riigikogu have been sent such letters from one, another or third parties that we would correct this mistake. An official should not blame them for not being able to interpret the law because the law is so written that it can be understood in many ways. And to be precise, this correction has been introduced here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U192	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U193	Thank you. If, on the one hand, on the other hand and on the third hand, pressure is to change the laws, it is very important that it is transparent who is behind these amendments. It's part of democracy. In this explanation, it states (quoting): 'According to the views expressed in the conversion of small and medium-sized shops, it must be said that the separation of alcohol from other goods in a similar way to large shops is a considerable burden for shops. 'To my knowledge, there has been no such appeal to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and to the Committee on Economic Affairs, nor did the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs deal with that yesterday. How do you explain that? Firstly, to what extent is it possible to draw conclusions from a document that does not exist? And secondly, to whom and then who has addressed this issue? Because this is the explanation of this amendment in the text.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U194	Thank you for your question. The Small Business Association has approached several committees, one of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. To be honest, I can't tell by heart what other committees were, but I think the Committee on Economic Affairs was there. I might be wrong. The Finance Commission was definitely there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U195	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U196	Yeah, thanks a lot! I agree with the performer that if something needs to be corrected and clarified, it must be done, although the clarification that has been obtained here has, in my opinion, become more confusing. But I will ask you this: do you also know, or do this letter, which the Committee on Social Affairs has not seen, for example, because it was never discussed very intensively and with great interest in the Committee on Social Affairs too, mention how many of these checks have been prescripted? That's one. And secondly, certain shops have certainly complied with the law, they have been created quite a lot in this regard, or they themselves have, under the law, also assumed these obligations and financial obligations in order to comply precisely with the law. How are they? Will their interests not be harmed if we start to change, to loosen something?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U197	Thank you. I'm asking the Small Traders' Association to make a letter on how many fines have been imposed. I don't know the amount when someone asks me how many numbers there are. But I'm sure I can ask about it and then send it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U198	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U199	Thanks! I also remember this debate in the Riigikogu a year-and-a-half ago, no, a little bit more, and then there were a lot of analyses or calculations that how much this limitation of visibility still reduces alcohol consumption. In recent days, I have heard that consumption has grown even more. Now we're making changes to the alcohol law, but we don't have any analyses. Does relaxing these restrictions result in the result that we have been taken in order for our people to drink less? What analyses did the Commission base itself on when it took this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U200	Thank you. Very good question, Kalvi! If the previous analysis was carried out and this analysis should have led to a decrease in alcohol consumption, it has now become clear that alcohol consumption did not decrease after the walls had been rebuilt.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U201	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is that the original draft concerned the so-called crisis measure for local authorities, because there is no national budget strategy and because tax receipts are questionable, it is probably not possible to draw up adequate budgetary strategies in due course, and we will therefore give the LAs additional time. Now suddenly, the conditions governing the sale of alcohol and the issue of Natura have come up. Would you explain the link between the financial policy of the local government and the sale of alcohol and whether this "incoherenceless assembly" is good legislative practice or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U203	Start at the end: certainly not a good justification. But what's the connection? I understand you've been the head of a large municipality, but if you're the manager of a rural municipality from a distance, and if the shops in the villages are shut down and jobs disappear and people face difficulties, it's very dependent on the local governments as well. Municipalities will then have to solve how people can shop or the like. In Jõgeva County, for example, bus routes were made at some point when the shops were closed so that people could shop.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U204	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U205	Yes, alcohol consumption has grown from your second brilliant suggestion to lower alcohol excise duty. And if there were no walls, he'd probably have grown even more. So, in that sense, your logic doesn't make much sense. But in the Committee on Monetary Affairs you said that the Ministry of Social Affairs knows nothing about this change, but that the Minister of Social Affairs Kiik has approved it. Well, that's good to know. But have you asked for an opinion from the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority? After all, they must begin to apply this new, beautiful, confusing wording. Last time we argued with all parties for years, we specified tens of times the wordings, and there are still disputes. Now you're going to take the amendment from under the hop table, and you're going to do it. Have you discussed with the supervisory authority to understand in the same way what was now written in here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U206	The wording is very precise in the proposed amendment to the text so that it is not understood in two ways. There's gotta be a cash register behind the counter, and people don't have to get in there. This is an important sentence: there is no access to it for buyers. The sentence of this cash register and access has been added to it very clearly. Otherwise, you put a cash register in the middle of the hall and that's the whole story, you could sell around, but it's very clear there that buyers wouldn't be able to access alcohol. This will certainly reduce alcohol abuse. Let's say, in the larger shops where it's possible to put a restraining device through a machine gun with a code, it's easier, although there's also a note that if there's alcohol, someone will definitely come and see if you're at that age so you can buy alcohol. [[J. Ossinovski asks the floor again if there have been any discussions with the supervisory authority.]] The Consumer Protection Board has not been asked about the proposed amendment, but it has been said that it is not helping to improve the regulation nakedly, that it should be explicitly mentioned in the law, that those who control the law can also follow the law, and that they can also exercise control according to the law. The current wording of the law does not give this possibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U207	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U208	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Do not use the statistics to contact the person who requested the amendment to the law. I'll ask the examiners for the data. That's one thing. Secondly, yes, it is a good thing that this matter was clarified that it was not this draft that gave rise to excessive or increased consumption of alcohol. Today, to be a Minister of Social Affairs in a situation where there are the worst statistics in 10 years and that this is still very difficult. It's interesting that the minister agreed and agreed, he's sitting here in the back, he didn't nod that yes-yes, Aivar, I agreed. But you still didn't answer the question about the violation of the interests of these stores. So those who have complied with the law and have not expected that perhaps someone will change the law, have complied with the law, have spent. What about them? Do they have the right to submit invoices to compensate for their costs? Because it's corona time, corona virus time, and it's high costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U209	Thank you. I started with the small traders' union turning to this request. Perhaps these shops, which are small shops, are members of this association. Then there can be no complaints from them because they themselves have proposed this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U210	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will continue with the previous question by saying that I dare to disagree. I believe that this issue of alcohol is not linked to the financial autonomy of local governments. If you say otherwise, please mention these municipalities, and if they have turned in writing, please send those where they claim to be. The question, however, is this: do you not think it is irresponsible to link these two issues now? Because, at first reading, local governments did not have many questions about extending the deadline for the budgetary strategy; everyone realised that it was needed by local authorities in times of crisis. The point that has now been added from the Committee on Monetary Affairs on the issue of alcohol sales has given rise to an obvious debate here, to questions, which would require a longer debate. If, now, the decision that is so important to the local authorities is not taken because it is difficult for a Member to support it because of bad legislation, although he would very much like to support the original idea, is it not irresponsible if such a thing could go down for incomprehensible reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U212	Thanks, Mart! That's a good question! I never said this proposed amendment had anything to do with COKS. You and I agree on that. But I would just like to remind you that there are also four members of the Reform Party in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and all these four members supported this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U213	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No more questions for you. It's possible to make speeches. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U214	I'd like three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U215	Five plus three is eight.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U216	Thank you! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pleasure to speak on this subject. However, this cannot be said of this same amendment. First of all, of course, if there is a desire to amend or clarify the provisions that were introduced in the alcohol law at the time, it is entirely legitimate. It is legitimate that there are companies that do not like it. Then they turn, they begin the procedure, they are discussed, Parliament votes, they consider arguments in one direction and they consider them in the other. And if most people think it's necessary to change it, they can change it. In particular, when we are talking about this incident or the desire from which it is motivated to make this amendment, it is indeed true that, in the case of a draft initiated by the Ministry of Social Affairs in its own time, there was a general view that the display shelf behind the seller should not necessarily be covered with a film or some kind of rag. It is actually well-defined in the Consumer Protection Guide. Indeed, there have been debates about this as to whether it can be implemented in the same way or in the opposite direction. One particular appeal has been circulating here, simply it has not reached the Riigikogu, but the chairman of the committee has probably received it somehow from other sources. The question is simply that this type of change cannot be implemented quickly through any other law, so that yesterday the chairman of the committee suddenly takes it out of the bottom-up, puts it to the vote, the next day at second reading, he is going to have no public debate on this subject, no consultation of specialists, both at the level of executive power and in society at large, is not possible, and next week it is intended to be put to the last vote. That's bullshit, that's not how laws should be handled. It's a formal part of the case. The substance is, of course, that this is a beautiful detailed discussion that was held at the time, and the wording that was introduced in this way was the result of very thorough discussions. This is certainly an ongoing debate, but it has been discussed very thoroughly. But what's written here right now isn't. And indeed, I think that the fact that it has been written in this way without having consulted the relevant parties is likely to lead to more problems than it will bring about solutions. This may also have a very different effect than the committee waitress explained here to the large chamber of the Riigikogu. As regards the impact of this measure, the Ministry of Social Affairs has commissioned and a study on the visibility of alcohol is available. Two and a half months after the entry into force of these restrictions, last summer, in fact, when many shops had not taken any steps at all to comply with the rules on alcohol display, the share of pulsed alcohol buyers decreased more than twice. People's attention to alcohol was also significantly reduced. Thus, the fact that they basically fulfil their purpose has already been measured in Estonia. There are no indications that there are adverse effects. These restrictions are very burdensome for businesses. That is why, when we discussed them, there was a very serious debate in Parliament. Some kind of agreement was reached and accepted as such. The undertakings have mostly made restructurings due to the principle of predictability of law that, after careful consideration, where a burdensome measure has been adopted and there are no substantive grounds for abandoning it, these restrictions could remain in force. Imagine that the day before yesterday a few small shops made investments to bring their activities into line, but yesterday Mr. Chef took out somebody's written bill and lost these restrictions, and it is not a very dignified way for the state to behave. But now to the most important thing: namely the wording of this provision. The current provision and amendment are largely identical in wording, with the exception of the last part of the last sentence. In fact, the current law states that the display of alcohol must be of limited visibility or not be noticeably visible, such is the wording, unless it is reasonably practicable. Now, 'if it is not reasonably feasible', this meant that if there are small shops where it cannot be applied technically, they would be exempt from the restrictions of this provision as a whole, i.e. they should do nothing. This amendment, which has now been formulated, removes this exclusion. This means that if, up to now and under the law in force, small shops, i.e. the smallest shops, do not have to apply any restrictions on display, that right would be deprived of them by this law. This means that even a small shop, the smallest store, can sell alcohol from a separate area in the future or behind the counter. Even the smallest store! At the time we dealt with it, precisely because these smallest shops are technically unable to comply with the restrictions on display, we basically gave them an exception. This exception now lapses under this legal provision. According to this legal provision, a small shop may also be sold in the future only if it is behind the counter or in a separate department, which at least at that time was considered impossible. And for the protection of small shops, such a so-called mitigation or exclusion measure was introduced. I believe that ending the sale of alcohol in small shops was not Mr Koka's wish was not what he wanted to do with his proposal, but since this provision has been written legally incorrectly, it has exactly that effect. From the point of view of alcohol policy, you should perhaps even rejoice, as there is likely to be fewer places for selling alcohol in Estonia as a result of this change. Because really, very small shops can't carry all those beer sauces and beer refrigerators behind the counter, they don't have that much room behind the counter. So far, they were exempt from these requirements, and now they are being tightened up. Whether this is justified or not, it can certainly be discussed, but I think it would be appropriate, in the case of a change affecting a very large number of companies, to analyse and review these effects. This has not been the case in this case. This, however, is likely to have serious negative consequences for many of the smallest shops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U217	Thank you very much. No further wish to participate in the negotiations has been expressed. We will therefore examine the amendment. There's only one of them. The amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, as the lead committee, it has also proposed to take full account of it. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U218	So let us vote on this amendment. That is the proposal of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Let's see who wants to torture these little shops.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U219	So, the Social Democratic Party Group is proposing to vote on this amendment. So that's what we're going to get to now. Ladies and gentlemen, We will examine draft amendment 194. The amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the lead committee has proposed that it be fully taken into account. The Social Democratic Party Group proposed to vote on this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 51 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of this amendment, against 4. The amendment goes into the draft. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the second reading of draft 194. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U220	And we have reached the 16th item in two and a half hours, which is the draft law amending the Law on Medicines and Health Insurance, initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 205, and we will begin with its first reading. I'd like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige, to wait here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U221	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today I will present a draft amendment to the Pharmaceutical Act and to the Health Insurance Act 205. This specific draft law was already on the government agenda for the first time at the end of last year, on 18 December, when we started discussions on this issue, and has also been at the meeting of the Cabinet on a few occasions. In the meantime, more acute issues had to be addressed, i.e. the crisis of the corona virus and the prevention of the spread of the virus, but now we have come again to this good bill. On 28 May the Government of the Republic initiated this draft in its current form, so it was transferred to the Riigikogu on 1 June 2020 and was already on the agenda of the Social Affairs Committee on 2 June. The purpose of this draft is to facilitate the reception and handling of non-compliant medicinal products by consumers, to improve the availability of medicinal products, to simplify the regulation of import and export authorisations, to modernise the regulation of marketing authorisations, to align the requirements for advertising of medicinal products, marketing authorisation for medicinal products, marketing authorisation conditions, variations, pharmacovigilance and manufacturing and wholesale authorisation with EU law, and to develop the pharmacy service. The draft provides for the possibility of exceptionally granting authorisations for the import of non-authorised medicinal products for special reasons to a group of patients suffering from chronic or severely debilitating disease or whose disease is considered life-threatening and cannot be treated satisfactorily with authorised medicinal products. There is no right for a defined group of patients to import and market non-authorised medicinal products; only patient-specific non-authorised medicinal products are regulated. Perhaps this is a very fundamental change that is needed. This will significantly improve the availability of innovative medicines already at the clinical trial stage of the medicinal product if the study is not conducted in Estonia and patients are unable to participate in a specific study. This provides an opportunity for Estonian patients to have access to new medicines being developed in a situation where there are no other options for treating chronic or life-threatening disease and the availability of innovative medicines and methods remains the only possible solution and treatment option for the patient. For such programmes, the number of documents required for the authorisation is significantly more extensive as it may still be, as indicated, an investigational medicinal product, such as a completely new active substance or a authorised medicinal product, the use of which has so far been approved in another indication. The possibilities of cooperation between general pharmacies will also be broadened so that locally manufactured or retailed medicinal products can reach patients in need of medicinal products in the fastest and most convenient way. To this end, the pharmacy shall provide the consumer with medicinal products manufactured or retailed in another pharmacy. At the same time, in order to enable the development of the pharmacy service, the introduction of new electronic solutions in areas with low demand, as well as the reduced provision of the service without the continuous presence of a professional in a particular pharmacy, the pharmacy service provider may in future provide the pharmacy service through a video call if the corresponding right exists. Indeed, this change concerns, in particular, very small settlements and regions where, probably without this proposal, the pharmacy service would not be available at all. The provision of a pharmacy service through a video call without the presence of a pharmacist or pharmacist is only possible in a branch pharmacy and in a location where there is no other pharmacy. Perhaps the aim is to facilitate access to pharmacy services and medicines in such places and to allow longer opening hours of the existing pharmacy using technological solutions. For example, if a specific pharmacy is normally only open for a few hours a day, at certain times on certain days of the week, it would now be possible that a pharmacist or pharmacist would be present at a certain time, but at certain times a customer service attendant who offers a service to people via a video call is present, in consultation with the general pharmacy pharmacist or pharmacist. The amendments to this draft law also remove excessive restrictions on European Union law requiring that advertising for medicinal products may only be made or ordered by the marketing authorisation holder or his representative, as this principle is not in line with the interpretation by the EU Court of Justice of Article 86 of Directive 2001/83/EC. Therefore, in addition to the marketing authorisation holder, it will be possible to prosecute non-compliance with the requirements of advertising for medicinal products, as well as those of the advertiser, the advertiser and the performer, in short, the one who commits the non-compliance with these specific interfaces. In addition, the procedures for travelling with medicinal products and issuing documents will be simplified, according to which the Schengen certificates will be issued in the future by a specific pharmacy instead of an Medicines Agency. This clearly makes the service considerably more convenient for people. Perhaps the same pharmacy from which he receives these medicines is also the place where the corresponding Schengen certificate is issued, so there is no need for a separate Agency of Medicines. According to the proposal of the Agency, the patient will be able to obtain the Schengen certificate for further advice on the use of drugs and drugs containing psychotropic substances, as I have indicated, from that pharmacy, thereby bringing the service closer to the patient and making it more accessible. The law is planned to enter into force in general order, except for individual points. Paragraphs 1 (6) and 25 of the draft law concerning the separate application of the authorisation for the production and wholesale of medicinal products will enter into force on 1 January 2021 and the amendments to paragraphs 1 (22) to 24 of the draft law concerning the procedure for issuing travel documents for medicinal products will enter into force on 1 September 2021, as certain technological developments and solutions will need to be developed here. That concludes the bill presentation. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U222	Thank you. Questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U223	Thank you! Dear Minister, There are undoubtedly many of these small important things in this draft, but I will take a quick look at it, that one important thing is somewhere in this way that has lost its way, the one that the Competition Authority has pointed out for a long time, that we still have a bad story about the concentration of this market in the wholesale market and that PERH and others have applied to hospital pharmacies for the right to buy directly without being fattened by our concentrated wholesalers. It was kind of in here, but now I'm making sure it's not here. Could you explain a little where it disappeared, why it disappeared, and on whose initiative or request, that it be known to us in general?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U224	Thank you for your question. Indeed, there has been a long debate on whether hospital pharmacies could have the right to bring medicine themselves to the country. The original proposal provided for this in the case of non-authorised medicinal products; the interim debate provided for all medicinal products, i.e. those not authorised or authorised. The specific proposal still needs some discussion, on this subject. So far, there has been a practice that different market participants are dealing with different obligations on the pharmaceutical market, and the current situation, as you rightly pointed out, this draft does not add this right to hospital pharmacies, but there are very many other good points. I think it is certainly worth coming back to this debate about whether and what medicines hospital pharmacies could bring directly in.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U225	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am interested in one aspect of this draft. The amendment gives Estonian patients access to medicinal products at the clinical trial stage in a situation where this remains the only possible solution for the patient. Maybe it would be topical to ask you this right now. As we know, many pharmaceutical science developers are currently working for COVID-19 medicines and vaccines. Could this affect the process? According to my information, several vaccines are precisely in the clinical trial phase, as well as in medicines. Would you mind commenting on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U227	Thank you for your question. Undoubtedly, this amendment may also refer to the treatment of COVID-19 disease as being "used, applicable." Whether or not, in the case of a vaccine, it should be evaluated more precisely by experts. Indeed, in the United States, a number of studies are currently underway, as the European Union is discussing this issue very strongly and actually wants to allocate additional resources to speed up the development of the vaccine. But in principle, when we are now talking about the COVID-19, in certain cases, such exceptional uses are also given as an example under the current legal framework. The use of remdesivir specifically in Estonia in the treatment of COVID-19 patients with severe conditions was indeed done. The pharmaceutical company replied to the Agency's request that although the clinical trials of a specific medicinal product are not currently being opened in Estonia, it is being continued elsewhere in countries with a higher disease burden, they were still able to extend the non-study medicine's exceptional use programme to Estonia. So, in a sense, we have already done similar precedents in the past in cooperation with pharmaceutical manufacturers, but of course, it is better if we have this right and opportunity even if not specifically provided for in the so-called "exceptional use programme" or the like, but as a principle, the state has a legal possibility of doing so if it is seen that clinical studies are actually taking place elsewhere in the country, which show that a certain medicine can help or has already produced the first positive results. Whether and to what extent it is applied to vaccines, this issue should certainly be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U228	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U229	Good manager! Good waitress! I'd like to focus here on these video specialists. Or, as the pharmacists' association says, obstetrics could be provided in the future via video midwifes, noting that this is a joke. But I read here that pharmacist associations say that it has not been discussed with this community. How did this thing come about like this? On the one hand, in order to normalise the situation in rural areas, there are video pharmacies, but, as I understand, they may not be at all well-educated, they simply improve the situation. Open up a little bit of that background, how did they come up, these video midwifes and that idea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U230	Thank you for your question. The aim is certainly not to start transferring some existing pharmacy services to a video service. The question really is that if there is a small area, a very small town, where there is no pharmacy open every day or on a regular working day from 8:00 to 6:00 or 5:00, then in the future it would be possible for a particular branch pharmacy to set up a branch pharmacy in such places, so that certain hours, even five hours a week, would be mandatory for a person to be present in the field and for the rest of the time a customer attendant would be able to work there. The idea is to open up the possibility of giving medicines closer to the patient in some ways. When a person goes there, a specific customer service attendant communicates through a video solution with a pharmacist or pharmacist who is specifically convinced by a barcode reader or other IT applications that a particular patient is getting the right medicine, and this customer service provider on the spot is in a good way his extension of the hand who will hand over this medicine to the customer. All this counseling, responsibility, issue of medicines etc. will continue to be on the pharmacist or pharmacist, but simply a person will no longer have to travel 10-20 km to the nearest pharmacy. As I referred to earlier, using such video services, branch pharmacies can only be opened in areas where no pharmacy exists. If there is a pharmacy next to the pharmacy where the pharmacist works in the form of a branch pharmacy or a pharmacist in the form of a basic pharmacy, you do not have the option of making a video service aside there, but it really concerns those places where Estonia is currently exposed to the pharmacy service.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U231	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U232	Thank you. You were very, very delicate in answering the first question, but I'm still pushing. However, at what stage was this proposal withdrawn? Was it on some sort of coordination circle, some kind of ministry proposal, or was it something else? Did the government get a text that included this proposal, and the government took it out so that it reached the Riigikogu like this? When did this happen? At the moment, it seems that way, I looked from the coordination table at the fact that one of the parties responsible was a pharmaceutical wholesaler association. They wrote it was very bad-bad, we don't like it at all, it's a lot of money for us. And then the coordination table says backwards: taken into account. Well, that's great, considering. How and when did this happen? The second question is this. You said you could come back to this. Is there a time horizon? When, then, has enough involvement and discussion been given about these matters so that this important change to the Estonian patients and medicine system could actually be made?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U233	Thank you for your question. The truth is that in the so-called original version of this draft, which is to deny it, it is a public document, that was the amendment in it. We have discussed this at government level and we have also discussed it repeatedly with the pharmaceutical market players. Since this point and the specific issue raised questions precisely in this view, which is going to be the role of one or another market party and which are obligations for the functioning of a successful system, then the consensus, or, let's say, the compromise is perhaps the right word, that particular point was to be taken out at the moment and to move forward with the rest of the subject, because there are very many important points that need to enter into force. As I said earlier, my personal view continues to be that it would be appropriate to grant a corresponding right to hospital pharmacies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U234	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The area of advertising for medicines has so far been relatively regulated, not everyone can do so and the choice of medicines is very limited. With this bill, I understand, these restrictions will be a little relaxed. Can you explain exactly what's going on in that market? As far as drugs are concerned, I suppose, they want to advertise very, very many, because the money is moving in that area.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U236	Yes, well, in fact, when we are talking about the requirements of advertising on medicinal products, the issue is primarily to correct the liability for the infringement of the prohibition on ordering, performing and disclosing advertising which infringes the requirements of advertising on medicinal products, or of the prohibition on prescribing medicinal products as provided for in § 86 of the Pharmaceutical Act, or of the prohibition on giving a gift of sale. Perhaps the aim is precisely that, in addition to the marketing authorisation holder, it would be possible to prosecute non-compliance with the requirements of advertising on medicinal products by the advertisers, advertisers or operators who commit the infringement. Perhaps the law also provides, for example, that the prohibition of giving gifts to prescribe and influence the sale of a medicinal product is not limited only to the marketing authorisation holder, but also extends to the person authorised by the marketing authorisation holder and to other persons who give gifts for the purpose of increasing the marketing of medicinal products. And the perpetrator of the infringement of the advertising on medicinal products is obliged to eliminate the result of the infringement of the advertising on medicinal products, i.e. the obligation to reject incorrect information contained in the advertisement in the volume and form set out in the text specified by the Agency. The aim is, indeed, not to go down the path of 'liberalisation' here, but rather to bring the law back into line with real life in some ways. Perhaps if we see that a pharmaceutical advertisement is ordered or made by another instance, then they would also have the right to be held accountable if they were wrong about the rules. Because until now, only the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) was responsible for the non-compliance with the balcony requirements. So that is actually the objective of this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U237	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U238	Good manager! Good waitress! I still come back to reading these explanations here, it turns out that this probably has not been discussed in the same way with the pharmaceutical community. My question is, why isn't it? Here, one pharmaceutical community, the pharmacist community, says yes, it would be a solution for rural areas where these empty spaces are, but at the same time it has not been viewed as a whole, i.e. with possible solutions on the whole of its information technology basis. That's just what they're proposing. And is he just five hours a week now, or where is it taken from? It's like it's the whole solution, but it's not a holistic one, it's a community discussion, I mean, with the pharmaceutical community. Why is that not so, why are they not actually involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U239	Thank you for your question. In fact, this draft relates to a very multi-annual process, i.e. the planned development was sent to the coordination round in December 2016. In 2018, a number of thematic discussions were held with stakeholders and the draft was sent to the coordination round in July and October 2019. So, actually, he's gone through a lot of coordination rounds. I have also met with the pharmaceutical market players on a number of points myself, as I referred to earlier, on this issue. In particular, this video service has not been raised at my meetings by the Chamber of Pharmacists, the Association of Pharmacists or the Association of Pharmacies. Now, in the meantime, a new connection has been established, due to the reform of the pharmacy, but, as I referred to earlier, it is indeed a distinction aimed at supporting these small areas. As you will remember, I will give you a concrete example, only recently at the beginning of this year, the news came that the Võsu had the only pharmacy closed down. It was only a few hours a day, but now it's closed. It was undoubtedly a question of profitability, but the question was also that being open on the spot for a few hours a day meant that most people had to get their medicines elsewhere, and probably keeping such a service and place did not pay off. Perhaps if it had been possible to solve this issue through video consultation with another client service provider, then the pharmacy would still be there. Of course, we don't know exactly how it would be, it's every keeper's own decision. So, I guess he's dealing with small places like this first. The aim really is that, in addition to the current pharmacies of the order of 470, there would be at least as much guarantee in the future, and perhaps there would be a new point in a few small places where there is real demand, but there would simply not be a worker with specific training and education. There is, in fact, a relatively high demand for pharmacists, pharmacists, as in the health sector as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U240	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. I would now like to ask the Commissioner, Mrs Sibula, for a presentation by the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U241	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft that the Minister has just presented at his video session on 2 June, where the draft was presented to the Commission as did Tanel Kiik, Minister of the great Saaliski here. In addition, Tiina Titma, Adviser to the Pharmaceutical Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Alice Südema, Head of the Legal Department of the Medicines Agency, Kaili Lellep, and Legal Adviser to Andrus Varki were at the committee. The Commission decided to close the first reading. The deadline for amendments was fixed as usual for 10 days. However, there were also some questions or discussions in the Commission, of which quite a bit of the same debate was already held in this large Chamber. First, the exact conduct of video counseling and this procedure. However, there was another question, which once even went through this hall, where we examined whether the ban on giving a gift is not limited to the marketing authorisation holder, but also extends to the person authorised by the marketing authorisation holder and to other persons who give gifts for the purpose of increasing the marketing of medicinal products. Then it was a question of whether it would be permitted to buy one box of medicines free of charge and whether it would be considered a gift. In reply, we have already had such a ban in place. The amendments refer to the situation in which the manufacturer of the medicinal product or the person interested in the sale of the medicinal product gives gifts to the seller or prescriber of the medicinal product with a view to influencing the choice of the manufacturer or wholesaler. The rest of the questions were really about video counseling, how it works and in which pharmacies it is offered, how it works. We have received the answer that video counselling has not been banned so far, but it cannot be done in such a way that no professionals are present at the pharmacy. According to the amendment, only a branch pharmacy located in an establishment other than a city where there is no other pharmacy service provider may provide the pharmacy service through a video call without the presence of a pharmacist or pharmacist. Then the question was whether this meant that we might have a situation where there were no qualified people at the branch pharmacy, i.e. there was no pharmacist or pharmacist on the ground, and all the work was done by a customer attendant. The answer is yes. This is the purpose of allowing the change. It was explained that these pharmacies should indicate the time at which the professional is present at the pharmacy. The pharmacist who offers advice also controls the activities of the customer service provider. The customer service provider must also have received appropriate training and develop instructions and working procedures. The balance is that the pharmacy service is more accessible than at present in some places where it is available a few hours a week. Video counselling can only be provided as long as no pharmacy is established in the area where professionals are available. Then there was the question of the educational requirements of the customer attendant. Andrus Varki replied that it was assumed that a customer service provider with a certain medical education would, of course, later prove that this is not the case, that these educational requirements have not been described anywhere, and that when entering the pharmacy, the person must also see that this is a pharmacy where video counseling takes place. Customer service attendants are prohibited from advising, which means that when a customer turns, the client service attendant is responsible for automatically connecting to a pharmacist via video, who listens to the patient's concerns and finds a suitable solution for him. The role of the customer service provider is only helpful. Then there was again the question of whether it was possible that the pharmacist had four pharmacies and, in addition to himself, he had no pharmacists, only customer servicemen, and by video, he supervised patients in different places. It was pointed out that there is no medical education, and the question is, where exactly does it say that they must have, as we have received the answer, medical education. As regards the reform of the pharmacy, this situation did not change; the provision of pharmacy services in the pharmacy has been allowed only to pharmacists and pharmacists since 2006. In other words, a pharmacy service, which is the issue, sale and advice of a medicinal product, is not allowed to be provided by a customer attendant or by any other person who does not have the relevant education. The same requirement continues to apply. The draft proposal concerns the possibility that, if there is a possibility and a need in a single place, this service can be provided without the presence of a pharmacist, though over video transmission, and must be controlled by a pharmacist or pharmacist. On the subject of education, we have received the answer that there is actually no obligation anywhere, but there are a number of obligations, which means that before a person can work in a branch pharmacy at all, he must receive appropriate training, as well as specific instructions and instructions. In addition, the audit obligation is in the form of an audit and everything must be in order at this site. Then there was the question of these medicines, which are very strong prescription medicines, and which have special requirements for issuing them. What rights does a customer service provider have when dispensing these medicinal products? Through the video service, the pharmacist or pharmacist checks that the medicines issued are correct and are intended for a particular person. Then there is the fact that the customer attendant who is present and who is entitled to take the medicine from the closet cannot sell the prescription medicine himself. In order to be able to sell a prescription medicine, the counselling service is transferred to the video bridge. Perhaps the pharmacist is the one who controls who the person that the prescription has been prescribed for him is active substance-based or product-based, etc. According to the advice of the pharmacist, the role of the customer service provider is only to remove the medicine from the closet, show it to the pharmacist through the video bridge and issue it. The entire sales procedure at the prescription centre is done by the pharmacist via the video bridge. In addition, the pharmacy has a system of control of the medicinal product. It is not possible to issue a prescription medicine without a prescription. If this happens, severe sanctions will be applied. That was the debate that took place on 2 June at the Commission meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U242	Questions. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U243	Honourable waitress! Thank you for a very thorough overview of what happened in the Committee on Social Affairs. Perhaps there was one thing that was not mentioned or overexpressed. In fact, the whole responsibility lies with the pharmacist who offers this service through the video bridge. It also continues to be an obligation to offer a cheaper medicine, which is based on active substances, and the person then decides whether or not to buy a more expensive medicine. Didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U244	Yeah, absolutely. In the last reply, it was also reflected that this was the question you asked, and we received an answer exactly as you have now described.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-10_U245	Thank you very much. No further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, It is possible to make speeches on behalf of the political groups. There is no need to speak. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 205 be completed. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 26 June at 4 p.m. Thank you very much. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 4.55 p.m.
