ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Honourable ministers! Let's start the final briefing of this session. This is also significant in the sense that this time the number of questions is the lowest in this whole year of work. But if we have time at the end, all members of the Riigikogu can also submit their freely elected question to the freely elected minister. Let's start with the presence check. 21 members of the Riigikogu are present and 80 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of the Interior Mart Helme and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu. As always, first the registered questioners get the possibility to ask a question, they get the opportunity to ask a question that is more specific, and then there is one more question from the floor. Question time is two minutes and answer time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U2	First, Kaja Kallas asks and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Last week, the Public Prosecutor's Office announced that it would start a criminal case to investigate a donation of EUR 50000 to the Centre Party. This donation was specifically pointed out by the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. Today came the Supreme Court's decision, which says that the Centre Party must return prohibited donations of EUR 110000, which has also been found due to the in-depth work of the Political Financing Supervisory Commission. Now that the good work of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission has resulted in a number of things being initiated and another criminal case in progress for the Central Party, you continue to believe that the abolition of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission is an ethical and politically correct act at this moment of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U4	Thank you for this question. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! First of all, I think it has been very good that there have been many questions about funding the Centre Party, it has certainly received a great deal of public attention. I hope that the questions have also received answers, and we still have to wait for certain answers. We'll take your question alone. One reference was to EUR 110000, which was today's decision. After all, I understood very clearly in November 2016 by running for the head of this party, and also by taking the lead in this party, that this is going to be a difficult way to change this party, to change this pattern of behaviour, to change the pattern of funding. I do not think I am wrong that this decision today concerns the years 2014 and 2015. I have said both in the opposition and in the coalition that Estonia is the rule of law, I trust our law enforcement bodies and, of course, when the sentence is imposed, it must also be carried away by the party. This has certainly been one of the last decisions that have been made on this journey, let's say, from this period. Some are still in the process. Yes, I agree that it has been difficult, it has certainly been difficult for our supporters, members of our party, but I think that the road that has been going on for the last three and a half years has been very right and very sincere. Such dark deals must remain behind us. Secondly, you are asking for this in the light of EUR 50000. I continue to take the view of what I said after the prosecutor's office initiated this procedure, that it is, in my opinion, correct in that sense, I even say that it is positive, because it is the only way that the prosecutor's office will use its options, its tools to make sure that there is something illegal or there is nothing illegal. So in today's situation, I say let the DA's office handle it peacefully. The party has said that it is open to this in every way, we will definitely cooperate fully. I understand that the donor to whom we returned the money has also said that he is open and willing to cooperate fully. At least that's what he said in public. Now, the end of your question is whether or not the abolition of the ICTY should continue to be on the agenda. It has been initiated by the Riigikogu. I think that the quality of supervision of party funding needs to be increased; I continue to consider it important and right. That's what we have to work for.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U5	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U6	Thank you. Your response gives the impression that you have entered the Centre Party in 2016 and that everything that concerns the previous activities of the Centre Party has nothing to do with you. But in 2014 and 2015, correct me if I'm wrong, you were a member of the board of the Centre Party. A member of the Executive Board or, more specifically, the Executive Board shall be responsible for everything that takes place in a political party. However, I am still asking what my question really was about the Committee on the Monitoring of the Financing of Political Parties. You want to make it look like the Riigikogu is dealing with it and you have not had any contact with it at all. Yet you are the chairman of the Coalition Council. If you say this bill has to be withdrawn, this bill will be withdrawn. My question is very direct: are you proposing to withdraw the draft removal of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission and not to discuss it in a situation where so many things are connected to your own party, which have been identified by the Political Financing Monitoring Commission? And a final comment. You say you want to improve the supervision of funding. Why, then, do you not trust the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, and why do you think that this work has not been good enough, given that your own party has been caught cheating so many times?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U7	Thank you. No, I didn't join the Central Party in 2016. I walked years before the early 2000s. These financial transactions and operations, which were in advance, are linked to why I am pulling this line between November 2016 because the party chairman was the second person in the past, and in November 2016 the congress elected me. No, at that point, the board did not have the information that has come out of the Supreme Court's decision today. So that's the reason. It was also one of my clear points of view when I applied for the chairmanship of a party that the party's finances must be fixed. I think that in this three and a half years they have become very much clearer, better. I'm sure there's still room for improvement. I wouldn't make those connections with the ERJK. I understand you want to bring this parallel, but I'm not bringing these connections. I have been answering here before you from the beginning that no procedure.. if the Riigikogu so decides that the National Audit Office should not fall away, it should not fall away. This can't happen. Of course, the procedures that go on must go on. You asked me if I didn't trust the EJC. I have also told you here ahead that I think that the supervision of the funding of political parties [quality] can be increased, I have said that the National Audit Office would, in my opinion, be a new level and a higher quality level. I'm still on it. They certainly have more resources, all kinds of resources, human resources, money resources, and certainly experience. These statements, which are said to be that then the National Audit Office will only control the state's allocation and will not control the programmatic grants of individuals or world-view grants to the political party, of course, this cannot be the case. Now the question of what will happen to this draft, which was initiated by the three political groups. Well, it's not exactly the case that the Coalition Council decides or... You said "Chairman." To be honest, we don't have that function in place. The coalition council is indeed led by the Prime Minister, but it is not now that the government says, or three political groups say, take it back from the Riigikogu, and then it will be withdrawn. In my opinion, the deadline for tabling amendments was just the beginning of this week. We need to look calmly at what happens to the amendments. It is clear that 50,000 of these proposals are a little more, perhaps even more, already in this Chamber to be dealt with in a purely technical way in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U8	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will continue with this point of clarification on the issue of funding for political parties. In fact, I will continue with this subject, which I had up last week as an even registered question in Riigikogu Question Time. This also applies to the funding of political parties. Today, this Supreme Court decision, which threatens you, your party, came with a financial sanction, but there are several aspects to this 50,000 euro donation story. The DA's office will definitely find out the circumstances of the racetrack and the pumping station, but there were other things that I stopped on last week. That's the May 27th date. Why do you hold onto it so much that it's the date you first contacted the donor that, let's say, from that date, this 30-day deadline will start to count if the donation had to be returned. This is calculated by law from the time the forbidden donation is known. That's why I'm asking. You have now been able to clarify these matters for a week, and in the meantime, new information has come. In fact, on 23 April, there was a meeting of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, which resulted in a call to the Centre Party on the issue of this donation. Your secretary-general even answered. Before 27 May, there was also a process of formalising the party of this donor. Are you sure, or can you at least admit that some of the people on the political party's board still had a relationship with the donor before 27 May?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U10	Thank you. I believe that today's Supreme Court decision does not threaten the Centre Party, it must be fulfilled, and what threat we are talking about here. I took out the quote, it was on 5 November 2016 in Paide, when I said at the party congress that the Centre Party is a worthy party, but also the best thing can be made even better, the Centre Party's finances must be in order and transparent, the campaigns that go beyond force and the warranty letters should be in the past. I am also with these words today, I have done this work in sincere faith, with all my heart, with emotion, and I continue to think that these are very correct words and that the Centre Party must stick to it. Now the 50,000. I understand that the Reform Party has already blamed the Centre Party for this whole case, but even the fact that you have a long experience of government and you are the largest group in the Riigikogu does not give you that right. But it comes through all your questions, either between the lines or directly, that the Centre Party is guilty and that now the law has been violated. Let's give the DA's office time to deal with this! There have been very many cases that have been dealt with and which, Mr Aivar Sõerd, also concern your home party today. Looking back longer or shorter in history: different centres here in Tallinn, different mother-in-law closets, etc. That's how it's been. But you're asking about May 27th. I understand you want confirmation from all the people of the Central Party that someone was in contact with that person. It is an absurd question or an absurd response on my part. What I can say is that the party leadership was in contact with him on 27 May, which I have confirmed here. There has been no contact with him before, I have both been assured by the vice presidents and the secretary-general, and I trust their words. We've made our decision about this money, we've returned that money. I don't think it can be said that it is very unique, as far as I know, the party has returned earlier, if it is not clear who has made the donations, perhaps [has done this] also to your party, I cannot say it. But, yes, the criticism you are now saying that for 30 days, I have said that, of course, I should have contacted you earlier, and I will also tell you today, Mr Sõerd, that I should definitely have made contact earlier. We had a party board meeting yesterday, we also strengthened our internal control, we also strengthened our supervision of donations. We will certainly try to learn from this painful lesson in the future, and we have already learned from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U12	The next question will be asked by Jaak Juske and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I would like to continue this discussion with you, which we had in this very hall on Monday, when we talked about the meeting that took place on the evening of 11 June, where you, your party's secretary-general and the city leaders of Tallinn, who are known to belong to the Centre Party. You were finally prepared to admit that this meeting took place and that the case against your party was also discussed on the same day. In the meantime, today's Estonian Ekspress has brought to light the fact that already a day later the city leaders of Central Party Tallinn canceled the agreement with the developer of the racetrack, because this agreement was linked to the same forbidden donation. Here's my question. Prime Minister, why are your party or your party's top leaders in Tallinn trying to cover up a corrupt transaction by denying it? What is your assessment of this and should any of the city leaders of Tallinn take responsibility for this corrupt or corruption-stricken transaction?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U14	Thank you. I was taught at the University of Tartu Law Institute, point one, that we have separation of powers, and point two, we have the presumption of innocence. That's what I said about the Reform Party's [comments], but by your [mouth] I understand that the Social Democrats also claim that this 50,000 is a criminal donation. But I think you're going one more step forward and you're saying that the city of Tallinn has also acted corruptly, and I think based on your speech and the article of the Estonian Express, you're saying that basically someone should resign in Tallinn because of corrupt behaviour. Mr. Juske, you are a honourable member of the Riigikogu. Neither you, nor the Estonian Express, nor others, I do not know, programmes or publications can convict anyone. The separation of authorities also makes it very clear that a court is the indictment in Estonia and the court decides whether or not to be guilty. I very much hope that the words you said, first of all, that the party has acted corruptly and that the city of Tallinn has acted corruptly... Not very much I hope, but stick to those words until the end. But at the end of the trial, it is not you, not the Social Democratic Party, not the Estonian Express, but the court. These are pretty serious accusations, Mr. Juske, which you said about one of the competition parties or about one of the municipalities. Very serious accusations. If they're true, then I have nothing to say, then you're right. If these are not true, then you are also responsible for your words, and your words are also very important in Estonian society. What do you mean, I was finally ready to testify? I meet with the leadership of the party and members of the party quite often. Yeah, that was your expression, some dark late hour. The meeting must have been a quarter of seven, the sun was shining in the sky, the dark late hour was nowhere. Of course, we discussed what had been decided on the party during that day. On that day, other important decisions had been made to the Estonian state, and we also discussed them. Now from the city of Tallinn. I am not a member of the Tallinn City Government or the Council. I am also not related to the water company Tallinna Vesi in any way. I have been assured by the mayor of Tallinn, and this has indeed been confirmed by the assistant mayor in his Facebook writing that the conditions (if we talk about rainwater conditions) have not been changed for the very great development that comes into the racetrack. That's what I can tell you today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U15	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U16	Thank you. Prime Minister! We've been in politics for almost the same time. I think you agree with me that it is not [only] that it must be honest, but that it must also look right and honest. These very serious suspicions, as well as the links with the transactions of Tallinn's city power, have been highlighted by one of Estonia's leading weeklys, the Estonian Ekspress, who is actually writing today about several other suspicious steps related to this forbidden donation, the fast taking of the party of the same donor and other suspicious pranks. You said last week in Question Time that you would take responsibility and resign when it turns out that this forbidden donation was criminal. In the meantime, a criminal case has been initiated. You have not taken responsibility. Here's my question. Prime Minister, I would like to clarify when you will take political responsibility. Should it be clear in the course of the investigation that the case is criminal and is prosecuted, the case will go to court, or will you take responsibility only if a conviction is brought? Please specify!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U17	Thank you, Mr. Juske! I don't think I have to teach you justice in the Republic of Estonia, but initiation of proceedings... If you are now linking this up so that the proceedings are open, criminal proceedings, and the matter is criminal, then that is a very out-of-court interpretation, a very loose interpretation. It's impossible to interpret it that way. I think that, in view of the public interest and the legitimate interest in obtaining final and correct answers, it was a very right step for the prosecutor's office to initiate it. If you read it on the surface that the party is guilty of a criminal case and basically say why you still haven't resigned, that is a very political interpretation. I understand you want Jüri Ratas' head on this floor, that's understandable. You can't blame it either, because it's the work of the opposition, to rise to the coalition. But with every means to take this head off, maybe it's not quite ethical and right, especially for you as a teacher. Pretty pictures were on Facebook last night. I watched your students graduate. I also say that the words of all politicians have weight, have influence. So do yours, Mr. Juske. You have said that the Centre Party is criminally guilty, that the city of Tallinn is acting corruptly with very flying and very powerful sentences. If you insist on my resignation, the opposition will always be able to initiate the disclosure of mistrust. The President of the Reform Party is, if I'm not mistaken, not in the last but the last weekend in the National Broadcasting 'Actual Camera', promising that the Reform Party will initiate my mistrust. There's still time for tomorrow, so it's coming. The Riigikogu will then be able to decide, and if the Riigikogu sees it that way, the Prime Minister will be distrusted. Only the court in Estonia will judge and the court will decide who is guilty and who is not guilty. But yes, emotionally I also answered previous questioners, not only emotionally, but also essentially, that this has been one of my very fundamental points of view, directing the Centre Party that these things must remain behind. As I have said, we have come out of practically all the arguments or disputes. That was one of the last ones today. True, there is a new one, too, that is the issue of EUR 50000 [euro], which is currently being dealt with by the prosecutor's office, and I think it is professionally, fairly and correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U18	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U19	Fair competition in elections is, of course, crucial in democracy. If it now turns out that the 2015 election result did not come in quite fair competition, then it can be said that the faction of the Centre Party that came to the Riigikogu after these elections could theoretically have been less than if it had not been possible to use the so-called "preferred facility" or funding according to different rules. But we will never actually know how big this group would have been and whether it would have been enough for you to become Prime Minister in 2016 or not. Although this election result at the time did not give the Centre Party a victory, it must have given some competitive advantage. Interestingly, both you, the President of the Riigikogu and I applied in the same district at the time. We must remember the election well. It wasn't a very long time ago. But that's not what I want to ask. I agree with your assessment that the Riigikogu cannot and will not have to prosecute any political party or any person in criminal proceedings, of course it is a court. The Riigikogu has the same reason and probably the need to make ethical assessments from time to time and ask important questions. I will continue the question asked by Aivar Sõerd. If this latest story, this 50,000 story came out in mid-April and the whole public paid attention to it, are you quite certain that no one from the Centre Party's board of directors, I stress, did not communicate with Mrs Juhastes, who made this very large donation before the date of 27 May that you claimed? Are you absolutely certain that no one in the board spoke?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U20	Thank you, Mr. Clothes. To hear from the Reform Party that 'fair competition' and 'ethical assessments' about the funding of political parties, I believe that here you also have a very big reason to look in the mirror as a party. I understand that it would be easy for me to bring all the dark cases of the Reform Party into this briefing and to retorically respond to you, I do not know, with a very long list, with everything that has been involved in the Reform Party and Reform Party in terms of fair competition, donations and funding. But I'm not gonna do it because it's not gonna take us any further. I cannot tell you what you mean when it comes to fair competition in 2015. There are certainly those who ask whether the Estonian elections, when there has been e-voting, are transparent, honest, etc. I've said I trust them, but there are a lot of people in society who say they don't trust them. But I have never thought that elections to the Riigikogu would not be fair. Well, I don't know if you're questioning it. Yes, that logic would be if the highest authority would choose one party here in the Riigikogu with 51 votes, but this has not happened, and hardly in the near future will any political party have such support. Consequently, in Estonian politics, as confirmed by Estonian political culture and practice, the coalition government must be born with two, three or more political parties. I think that this is fair competition: if we know the lines of power in the Riigikogu, these parties are going to hold political consultations, and after going forward, coalition negotiations will be held, and if they go forward, the coalition will be concluded, with its compromises and its principles [do this], which are part of the coalition. Today, there are three political parties: the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Party of Isamaa and the Centre Party. In a very fair competition, this coalition is born. Yes, I am currently dealing with 2019 when the elections were held, after the elections began negotiations and was able to find the best coalition agreement for Estonia. I think this is the best coalition agreement for Estonia and a very broad coalition. That is fair competition in politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U21	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U22	The next question will be asked by Taavi Rõivas and will be answered by the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U23	Thank you. Since the lines are not provided for in this discussion, I will use part of the time allowed for my question to be submitted to Prime Minister Ratas to say that you should now either prove or publicly apologise, because as the leader of the repeatedly criminally sanctioned party, you should not simply defamate your political competitors. And when it comes to competition in the 2015 elections, I will take it personally if it turns out that the Centre Party competed with my party through unfair competition, and I believe that Mart Helme, who was also the chairman of the party at the time, will take it personally. But my question is to Mart Helme and concerns this bill, which is sent out by the ERJK and replaced by another body, namely the National Audit Office. This bill was taken to defend your party partner, Kert Kingo, before Parliament. When we asked him in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs about certain backgrounds from which this draft had exactly begun, he confirmed that his draft had not been included in the working group which had been drawn up and indicated that it came from the 'party leadership'. Can you open up this backyard for us a little while, who was then involved in the drafting of this bill? As Chairman of your party, I am absolutely certain, you are better informed on this matter than Mrs Kert Kingo.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U24	Thank you. I am indeed a well-informed person, not only on this issue, but on a very large number of issues. As for the fact that the Prime Minister has slandered someone, he has not slandered anyone. I would remind Mr Clothes that he has even gone to the DA's office in his day to question Kristen Michal. So you've also been under investigation, there's nothing proven, no one's been convicted anywhere, and that's the end of the story. So the fact that right now at this door the police are waiting and cuffing themselves is perhaps a bit of an exaggerated political aziotage that could be avoided. As far as the draft on the liquidation of the Political Financing Supervision Commission is concerned, yes, I admit that I wanted it already during the previous Riigikogu. There was then no possibility of such a bill, there was no prospect that it would move anywhere, create a discussion in society, draw attention to certain shortcomings. Specifically, I am not involved in the drafting of the draft, ideologically I have given my approval to it, so I am completely connected. Why? They're asking why anyway. For as the esteemed ambassador who has now left the hall repeated, not only must he be honest, but he must also seem honest. We can also say the opposite: not only do we have to look honest, but we also have to be honest. The work of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee has not been fair. It has not been fair because it is run by the Social Democrats, it has not been fair because they have regularly exceeded their powers by demanding documents, demanding a report on circumstances that do not concern their competence, and it is also not fair because if we take the logbook and look back in the space of time, we will see that the two parties have been under fire there constantly, they have been the Estonian Centre Party and the Estonian Conservative People's Party. In the case of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, all the accusations have fallen into the sand, because nothing illegal has been able to bring out or prove, even though it has been tested. If I remember correctly, I have also had to answer the question in this Chamber whether we have been given an unfair donation (or whatever it is called) in the form of a Tre Radio show. We filed documents that we've always paid for it. A precept was made that we must always say on the show that the Estonian Conservative People's Party has paid for this programme. That's what we've been doing right all along. However, if the Political Financing Monitoring Commission has to ask us for a report that where we have channelled our money during the election campaign, which campaigns we have launched with our money in the inter-election period, they will not have the right to do so. They do not have this right, and this is an example that they exceed their powers and behave unfairly. Another example. There is such a nice institution as the Family and Traditional Protection Foundation, which is not a party and does not have to report to the Political Financing Supervision Commission. However, this Commission has also had the nerve to request reports from this foundation...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U25	Thank you, good minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U26	...and that is why I support the liquidation of this organization.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U27	Javier in clothing, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U28	Thank you. In addition to this direct slander that you have pointed out here, which I am not even going to comment on at this point in time, I have noticed that you are gratefully once again saying what the government really is thinking. As the first politician, you say in the Riigikogu's board that there really is a plan to eliminate the Political Financing Supervision Commission. You bring out, among your motives, what has happened to your party or to your party's investigations, as well as to your world-view, at least close to you, I cannot tell you whether you are involved, but in any case, in a world-view close to the foundation. So thank you for that! These motives became clearer. I really needed someone to finally be honest with me about why. So far, a number of politicians who have defended it, including Kert Kingo, have said something about the need to make the supervision of political party funding much more effective. But you basically said it was too effective, and you gave a number of examples. You said that everything that is going on with the funding of political parties and its supervision must also seem fair. You criticised the fact that, simply because there are social democrats in the Commission or because the Commission is led by a social democrat, you do not think that this is fair. Please tell me how honest it seems to you that your coalition partner (in the middle of the April such information has been received to the public) has had one donation, a very large, a lot of questions, and the day after it becomes clear to the public or, more specifically, the day after the ERJK starts asking uncomfortable questions, the coalition will come up with a bill with your participation that will send out the same ERJK. How honest do you think it looks, or how honest is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U29	Well, I don't know how honest it looked when you defended your party partner in connection with some Arsenal Center, and how honest it looked that an hour after a transfer was made from this computer of the Riigikogu, the money was taken into your party's account. It's slander, of course, again, isn't it? It's slander, we're always slandering, but you're telling the truth. There is no slander here, I have never concealed my negative attitude to the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, for the reasons I mentioned. What Kert Kingo said is what Kert Kingo said. The fact that there's something to do with the fact that the day after some sort of thing came out, a bill was issued, well, you should be such an old politician to know that the drafts are being prepared a little bit longer. I don't see any connection here. The attempts are now to crucify someone who has not been convicted anywhere, no criminal ties, no evidence or proof of any criminal connection in this case. Let me give you another example. You are a reform party, and you are systematically involved in slandering people. Systematic. How far has Marti Kuusik come? It's been over a year and there's nothing. Let's just remember the way they screamed and trampled their feet on the listery scandal. As soon as we swarmed Mart Järvik to second place, he disappeared. It was pure slander. The action against Urmas Arumäe, who was also slandered in this Chamber, was now dismissed in court. Well, that's plain slander. And this has been systematically dealt with by the Reform Party. Systematic! In every briefing, you're gonna pick up some slanderous accusations that in the long run, you won't find any proof. Your paramilitic wing in the form of a press fuels some kind of passion in society and, for one reason, another or third, as it is loved to say, using English in Estonian, 'by the end of the day', nothing is revealed. Stop defamation, engage in politics! Only bad politicians slander.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U30	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U31	Thank you. Dear Minister, What you called "Mart Järvik" was inevitable. There were voices in this hall, so take Mart Järvik down, and then things will be all right, months earlier. It took you months even more to do that. But I think that this question has something to do with your Prime Minister sitting on your left hand. I remember Järvik leaving and Kert Kingo leaving. Doesn't it seem unfair to you that the Prime Minister has a little double morale when you say your people have had to leave with the so-called little screaming, but the Prime Minister doesn't find a way to take political responsibility? How do you think they're supposed to go together? You referred to the fact that, in this so-called monitoring committee, it was as if there were all warlocks and, therefore, two political parties are being tortured, one is your party, the other is the Centre Party. If I remember correctly, there are also representatives of all political parties, which means that if anything suspicious, investigative were to be noticed for any political party, those representatives, also those neutral representatives who do not represent political parties, would be able to initiate something there. That can't be the reason. The sadness must be accepted by Taavi's garment, who through your mouth learned the true motives. The Prime Minister's Party has been clearly punished and several times caught and called to order by the law. Even the same requirements that we have heard today, 110000 [EUR], it is not a coincidence, it has all happened. In this light, do you not feel that there is a little bit of double morale from the perspective of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U32	Thank you. Let's start with Mart Järvik. The whole mess ended at the moment the chancellor was dismissed. That's when all the shit stopped. There was no one left to leak information. In short, let's finish this, it's all clear. As for Kert Kingo, Kert Kingo was slandering you and the press all the time he was in office. He was stupid, he didn't know the languages, he didn't go abroad, he didn't know what he was doing. An intelligent, responsible, aspiring person was under an incessant smear. This is a policy that you think seems fair. I don't think it's fair. For this was a good party called the Reform Party, which has long forgotten about the reforms. What do you have to do with reforms? Nothing, sorry, nothing, nothing at all. As far as the Prime Minister on my left is concerned, I can assure you, we have been negotiating and having been in the coalition for over a year, we actually negotiated before that. I have not observed any illegal pressures, suggestions, transactions, attempts to abuse public money. Not the least of them, not the least of them. It is true that the Centre Party has a complicated history. Our party is easy in this regard. We made a decision at first that we wouldn't accept any money with a suspicious taste, we wouldn't communicate with businessmen, we wouldn't communicate with interest groups, because the road to hell is paved with good intentions, and sooner or later some kind of crap will happen. We live in state support, membership fees and so-called economic activity, i.e. the sale of our own logo on shirts, gravel and the like. Very simple: we have less money, but we know exactly what amounts we can count on. Nor have we taken serious debts, unlike the Social Democrats, nor have we made any commitments to the banks. We're clean as a spectacle stone, quoting the classics. My coalition mates have, in my opinion, done exactly the same thing during this coalition, they're clean as a spectaclestone. If the court can prove otherwise, we will draw our conclusions from this, but there is nothing here but your slander.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U33	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U34	Next thing you know, Mart's gonna ask for the Gridship, and he's gonna answer to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In 2011, Harju County Court convicted former attorney Viktor Kaasik of bribery and former city official Toomas Õispuu, who was, among other things, a member of the Central Party, in taking bribes. The content of the criminal case was a bribe offered by the developer's representative to the city official for organising a detailed plan for the development of Paldiski Road 50, the so-called "Hipodroom." There have been many corrupt transactions in history involving the members of the Central Party and the city of Tallinn and proven by the judgment; two minutes are not enough to record them all here. In its June 6th story, Eesti Ekspress has raised doubts about [about the relationship] between a donation of EUR 50000 received by the Centre Party and making the conditions for the development of the race more favourable to the developer. On Monday, we heard that you met Mikhail Korb and Mikhail Kõlvart at Stenbock's house on June 11th. On the same day, the prosecutor's office opened criminal proceedings for the Central Party on a donation of EUR 50000. Did the meeting also mention the development of the racetrack and, if so, what city planning advice did you give the mayor? Could this be another corrupt activity, where one party is the Centre Party through Tallinn City Government? I am not condemning anyone here right now, the part that you have told Mr Juske about may be excluded from the answer. My question is: could this be a corrupt act, can you confirm that it is not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U36	Thank you. Of course, you have the right to ask, and I have the right to answer, but I do not know that I should answer as a member of the Riigikogu gives me the frame. That's not exactly the case. I'm looking at how I want to answer your question, Mr. Networkship. You brought out the year 2011. I don't know, so let's go back to the early nineties, start bringing out all the sins that have been, since the VEB Fund. They can easily be pointed out; they can also be discussed whether the right solutions have been found or whether the right solutions have not been found. So far, there's a lot of question marks up in society. But what you're asking me is, what we discussed that night, I don't really know what interrogation I'm here for you, Mr. Gridship. It's a good thing you're not asking where the dots and the commas were in our sentences yet. This is a very interesting approach for you. No, I made no recommendations to the city of Tallinn as to how they must or do not have to deal with any plan. But I've had questions for the mayor, whether it's true that the claim or the accusation that this plan has somehow been made more favourable to the developer. His answer has been no change. That's enough for me. I am also a resident of Tallinn, linked to the city of Tallinn. It is clear that this really is a very large development project if it is to be completed at one point. It is important that the issue of rainwater be resolved in the best possible way. The question of precipitation in many places, including the capital city, not to mention smaller municipalities, raises problems. To make it any easier for the developer, I don't think it's right. If there are large rainwaters, there are floods in urban conditions, for example, the same Tuukri street or other areas. So I think that the city and the water company here still have to find the best solution, and I think they will find, too, they are not based on any other solution, still on what is best for the urban environment and the urban population. If you ask if there may be any criminal manifestations in this whole story, then my answer is not the same as it has been for the last few weeks: these tools exist at the prosecutor's office and ultimately this decision-making power is the responsibility of the court in Estonia. Whether it gets this far or not, in your case, it doesn't matter whether it gets there or not, you've already said it, slandered it and accused it that the Centre Party is corrupt, that it's a corrupt deal. So you've made your assessment, but then let the prosecutor's office and the law enforcement agencies give it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U37	Mart Networker, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U38	Thank you. I did not make too many assessments in my speech or in my question, I asked. Since this is a possible forbidden donation, which has also been investigated in criminal proceedings, I think it is the place where a member of the Riigikogu may ask questions. It is certainly not a point or a decimal question, but a substantive question. It was just a clarification. Maybe you'll be more specific about your answer. Did you talk about this development that day or that night? You said you had spoken, but did you talk that day? Plus, you've been talking here today about the presumption of innocence and the fact that no one can be convicted until the court has ruled. As far as the Reform Party is concerned, there are no valid judgments that, to my knowledge, would have convicted the Reform Party of illegal donations. Well, there's at least two of them on the Centre Party, as far as I know. I think that this would be a place to apologise or perhaps to read down the criminal cases that have been proven by a court judgment, for which the Reform Party has been convicted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U39	Thank you. First you crucify a competitor and then you say you're sorry, too. Very interesting approach! I have never said that the Reform Party has been convicted. Yeah, you're right, the Centre Party has been guilty twice, and we've served our sentence. But this approach that you're saying, first hang on the cross and now apologize, too, is very interesting. It is no secret, Mr. Networker, that during this whole period it has been your party's desire to show in every possible way... I even recall that your party chairman accused national broadcasting of not reporting the news and compared it to the Orbán era. This will, this urge to see blood in this coalition, is so insane that it doesn't matter what's in it anymore, just the headlines. 'Everything for sale,' you might say. A little too much, a little too fast, and certainly unreasonably. I really rely on Estonia being the rule of law, the authorities doing their job as best they can and can. The DA's office is working today. Let him handle it and then let him know what he's doing. If you want to know if there were any city developments that night, there was talk that night, and there's definitely been days left when there's been talk. Of course, I will ask the mayor if there are such allegations that there are any grounds for these claims or there are no grounds for them. The mayor has said there is no foundation. It's really enough for me. If you also ask yourself, as a former head of government, about this subject in essence, I am not quite sure that it is at all up to the city to decide what will be the rainwater discharge system there. It is also a very large decision of the water company, or it has a role to play in this, in this case Tallinn company. But the fact that there is no way to tie it away is that, I don't know, a donation can make a cheaper rainwater solution, I never believe that the city will go along with it, knowing that the rainwater problem is in many places, not to mention smaller municipalities, but also in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U40	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I don't know where you're gonna get it. Reformers are gonna slander you. In that case, I could define that the court of the Republic of Estonia has started to slander you with these two judgments. We wouldn't even have to open our mouths, because the fact is, the party has indicated by its behaviour and action that there is a problem, and that is confirmed by the judicial decisions. Because of this, we do not have to be absolutely slanderous; we only deal with the fact. Now the second thing that concerns the same possible contribution of EUR 50000. I remember you talking about how personal and family this donation was when you almost started crying right here on the remote. You were so convinced that [the donor] had met both you and Mailis Reps, although there was a small blackout on the Mailis Reps, he was wrong in exactly a month since he first communicated with him. It seemed like such a surprising moment to us, I don't know what the reason was. But all these activities in themselves have created these doubts; they do not need to be invented. If you look at the participants in the movie, the change in their story, and the change in your [story], has actually deepened those doubts. Listening today gives the impression that they are digging deeper and deeper. Please tell me how you perceive in this situation that the ministers of the Republic of Estonia, the prime ministers of the Republic of Estonia must be a model for the entire Estonian community or for the citizens of the Republic of Estonia. Those stories that are being said here are getting ridiculous. When would this border come, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U42	Thank you. You started with your question that you were not, how you said, slandered, etc., and you ended your question there. I think that is the essence of your question: you want this film to reach this stage so that today's coalition can no longer play the role of the three leading players. That is, very simply, your wish. Point one, I have in no way called into question the decisions of the Supreme Court, and I have also said here today in Question Time that this decision, which was taken for the years 2014 to 2015, must, of course, be enforced. There is no dispute about this; the Supreme Court has made its decision. For this 50000 [euro], I would even say that it has not been slanderous on your part, reading between the lines and reading the lines, it is a clear pressure to stamp the Centre Party to blame. It's blown up from every position. I'm emotional, that's true, but I don't remember sitting here in tears and crying. But if you saw tears in my eyes, then maybe they were, I don't know what kind of discussion, instead of tears of joy. I don't know, I don't remember. You skilfully brought in Mailis Reps. You said how it was possible for the Centre Party to say that the connection was on 27 May, but you can see in the press that, in fact, Mailis Reps spoke to him at the end of April, a month earlier. But the interesting thing is that you know very well that Mailis Reps has made it clear in the press release: it is not true that this meeting or, sorry, video conference or conversation was on Mailis Reps at the end of April, it was on 27 May. It has simply been misunderstood in this story, and the journalist misunderstood the interview that was given by the Mailis Reps at the door of the Centre Party Group. I've been asking if it's what he says in his press release. The Minister of Education and Science has said that this is the case. You don't want to deal with that. Guess that was the wrong idea from the journalist. Minister Reps explained the next or the next day that it was wrong, the meeting was in the form of a video conference for the first time on 27 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U43	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U44	Let's keep going. Today's fifth questioner is Valdo Randpere and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas about combating corruption. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U45	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good George! For the last three and a half years, you've been talking about how the Centre Party no longer does business in court and is corrupt and is honest and clean as a spectacle stone. No one's taken this seriously but you, but the word is free, and that includes fairy tales. And what he is other than a fairy tale or, more strictly speaking, lying, your talk about the cleansing, change and compliance of the Centre Party. You can understand why I'm so saying: trials, convictions, sales of houses on dubious terms, settlement procedures, parole sentences, as well as the Supreme Court's decision today, etc. But it's not all my question, but I'm just stating the facts. My question is, what is your next step to cover up this latest scandal involving a suspicious donation of EUR 50,000? You're not gonna stop lying and wrestling, I don't believe that, and no one else is gonna believe that either. But a person came from me on Jõgeva Street to ask, a person unknown to me, whether Jüri Ratas is now going to send the prosecutor's office, just as he intends to do with the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. And is that the Central Party and your version of fighting corruption to eliminate the investigative bodies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U46	Thank you, Mr. Randpere. But what is he? You say that a fairy tale, then you say that no one will take seriously what I have wanted to do in November 2016, [standing] before the Centre Party, in terms of funding. Then you'll say it's actually lying. So is this a fairy tale, or is it lying or what? But I think it's true, and I still think it's true, and these words, these thoughts come deepest from within me. Yes, the party has had a lot of complicated funding cases where the party is guilty, the party has done wrong. It is often right to admit these things and to go on stronger. I think the Centre Party has been acting like this for the last three and a half years. If you can tell me any of these examples of [in connection with] the judgment of the Supreme Court of today where we are, I do not know, from November 2016 onwards did any wrong things or we have not accepted these [decisions], please say. We have accepted them, we have paid those fines if the party has done wrong. The party has changed its behaviour very seriously. As I said in this quote, these warranty letters and different, I don't know, Tartu house deals that have been, must remain in the past. In fact, it is very good that the Estonian public also knows that it is something, I don't know, a pattern of behaviour or a model of behaviour that the party has had. Today, that is no longer the case. For this case today, you're asking, what is this next step or, I don't know, the last step in covering up the scandal? I don't know that I would have covered this scandal up somehow. On the contrary, I have said that public communication is the basis for this, I have welcomed the procedure initiated by the prosecutor's office. The party itself has taken internal steps at the level of the party's board to strengthen its internal control. Now what a good Estonian person asked you is whether Jüri Ratas has a plan to send the prosecutor's office, I don't know, disband or end it. I believe that you yourself answered, knowing me that Jüri Ratas did not have such a plan, nor is it conceivable. But if you did not tell me, I will also tell you here in the Riigikogu that, of course, it is not conceivable and such plans do not exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U47	Valdo Randpere, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U48	Thank you. Dear Mr. Ratas! You're always talking about how happy you are that the DA's office has initiated an investigation. I honestly don't understand it. How stupid do you think people are when you say such a thing? I don't know anyone who knows someone who'd be happy to have a criminal case against him. But that's it. Even this friend sitting on your right hand, Mart Helme, a recently found friend, can hardly hold back yawns and smiles if he listens to this story. He stated not much more than a year ago here in the Riigikogu that corruption is part of the genetic code of the Centre Party and without corruption there is no Centre Party. Or maybe it was the other way around. But my point is, does the Centre Party have a specific price list that costs a bagel or a detailed plan or some other sweet bite? We currently have a specific problem in the country: farmers are groaning under labour shortages. How much should farmers donate to the Centre Party, I specifically ask that they bring a few thousand Ukrainians to help and gather their crops before agriculture goes completely up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U49	Thank you, Mr. Randpere. Do not measure other parties according to your own standards; do not measure or judge other parties according to your own pattern. I don't know where you're taking this parallel with the price list. If there is such a price list in your party that the item in the bill, which pays the paragraph in the bill or which pays the paragraph, the Centre Party does not have such a price list, nor will it ever have. You're always very open-minded. I don't know, maybe you just talked to your home party about what your price lists have been for different Soviets, different companies, etc. We don't have that price list. This is nothing to do with the behaviour of the Centre Party, and it is clearly criminal. You said there was a friend here on my right hand, Mart Helme. Yes, I dare say here that our working relationship has been more than a year now in this coalition, I can't tell you if it can be said that he has really been a friend. I can tell you that about Mart Helme. Yes, I can. I can also say that this whole coalition, let us be honest, this difficult year has stood up for the people of Estonia and the Estonian state. With the longest experience, the Isamaa Party, which has been in different governments of Estonia, both the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Centre Party have been very little part of the government, one because it is a new party or, say, a younger party, the past of the Centre Party has been a opposition rather than a coalition. But actually, I think, Mr. Randpere, that is the essence of your question. After all, this has been the most disturbing for the Reform Party all year, that the three parties have not only been able to agree on a coalition agreement, but have been able to act and decide all these days. I think that also in Jõgeva, where you went, quite a lot of people say that it is a good coalition, it is the best coalition for Estonia today, it is a broad-based coalition. In fact, I fully understand politically that I suppose that's what pisses you off the most and makes you angry.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U50	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U51	Thank you. Good Jüri, you're here before us as Prime Minister, your words have weight, and that weight comes with responsibility. You shouldn't allow yourself to have naked pricks to "according to your pattern" or to make any suspicions about some decades ago, I don't know, the VEB Fund or what you blew up here. If you have any facts, just say it. If not, apologize, it would be appropriate. But let's proceed on a factual basis. You said it was very good that the Estonian public knows. You meant, I understand, that the Centre Party has been illegally funded in the past. That's what you said today wasn't like. But let's look at the facts. The Supreme Court's decision came today and, as I understand it, it is not subject to appeal, that even before the 2015 elections, the Central Party received a very large amount of EUR 110000 of the forbidden donation. Which means, in turn, that I now conclude on the basis of these facts that this was a very large part of the funding for the Central Party's election campaign at that time. Everyone can themselves conclude whether it was unfair competition or not. I think it was. If the other parties didn't use the same kind of doping and you did, then I see it as unfair competition. As a result of this unfair competition, not Edgar Savisaar became Prime Minister, but you became Prime Minister at the end of 2016. So the content and the connection kind of exist. You say, once again, that this is not the case today and that the Centre Party is cleaner. I was thinking about your predecessor, and I was also wondering if he would have made such a skinny move to simply disband this organ, which has many complaints for you. I'll be honest: I don't know. How do you feel that Edgar Savisaar could have behaved in a similar situation as you are today and sent to the body that has repeatedly accused you of falsehood and, as of today, passed a positive judgment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U52	Thank you. Well, it's doping and it's unfair competition... You produce [for example] this 2015 year. I understand that the reason lies primarily in November 2016, when the Riigikogu mistrusted you and changed the coalition. I guess that's the content. I don't think I'm wrong that there was quite a lot to be said, I would even say that scandalous talk, in 2015, such a long asphalt road, empty and quite wide, with probably quite expensive shoes, the Prime Minister of that time walked and two powerful fighters put him behind him. I don't know if it was real, but it was well done. It was an expensive commercial, it was well done. If I'm not mistaken, it must have been the take-off and landing runway at Ämar Airport. To be honest, I don't know, I wasn't the party chairman at the time, but I don't think any other party could have used this NATO base in Estonia for their election ads. So, what do we do now, Mr. Clothes? You say the Central Party used doping. I say, you see, you marched with those shoes in Ämar, you shut down the air traffic. It was hardly the official request of the Reform Party to open the gates of Ämari Airport to the President of the Reform Party, and now he is coming here. It must have been different for you, but I don't know how it went. So I continue to think that even if you were in their powerful, I don't know whether you were there or whatever you were with, the highest authority made its choice, the people of Estonia chose both 2015 and 2019 Riigikogu as they thought it was right. And after that, the highest authority transferred this competition to this Riigikogu. In 2015, you made a coalition. Good for you! I'm sure you did your job by heart and discretion. At the end of 2016, the force ratio in the Riigikogu changed and a new coalition was made. 2019 the highest authority elected 101 delegates who agreed to a coalition such as the one that was able to create as a compromise, and this is a good coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U53	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U54	Let's keep going. Today's sixth questioner is Annely Akkermann; the question is to Minister of the Interior Mart Helme about corruption. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister of the Interior! On Sunday, 14 June, the Estonian radio show "Let's talk about the matter," where you and EKRE vice-president Martin Helme, among other things, took up the contribution scandal of the Centre Party, that's what you called it. This means a contribution of EUR 50000 to the party by Mrs Juhaste, who has received this money from the father of her child, but for personal reasons she and her child do not want this money. Martin Helme said he wouldn't believe it. Neither do I, and it seems to me that the Estonian public, the Estonian people in general, do not believe this story. You added that by returning the donation, the Centre Party has taken the blame. You also criticised the failed behaviour of the Centre Party in this scandal. My question to you is: how would your party have behaved if such an amount had been paid into your party's account in January?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U56	You must be a good student of Estonian journalism. After all, the Estonian press is such an excellent inventor of titles and interpretations. From the same radio show that you mention here, [talking article] Delfis received the title "Black Lives Matter: In fact, these lives don't count" or how they had it in the original [title] that made it look like we were talking about how black lives cost nothing. In fact, we were talking about how all these rascals, breakers, pogromers, black businesses, shops, dining grounds are proving by their actions that in the process of standing up for black lives, they're actually destroying black lives and black lives don't matter to them. But our press knew exactly how to make it look the other way around. We see that all the time. Journalists sit on the balcony, and I never pardon them at government press conferences. I teach them all the time, and I keep trying to knock on their consciences. I understand you need clicks, I understand you need readers, I understand you need intrigue, but try to stay within the bounds of the truth, don't go on a real flight with your fantasies. But you've taken the same style now and you're flying with your fantasies. It is true that we were somewhat critical and found that the chairman of the party should not be the one who is about to rush. But I understand that Jüri's conscience is that he is so involved in the affairs of his party, perfectly understandable, just as I am involved in the matters of my party, so that I would like to go and say, hey, come on, let it go, it's not like that, it's actually different. We said in this sense, but it's a game of chess, politics is a game of chess (chess is more moves than politics, by the way), the king of chess has to take care of himself, and tricks have to take care of him. It was the whole point of this thing, not the way we said it was all wrong. What we said was that now that it was transferred back [the money] (that was my opinion), it might seem that they are saying that they are guilty of something, but in fact nothing has been proven. I'm still coming back to this fine, unnamed Reform Party. Your scandals in the past were much uglier. Ten million! Don't talk about being acquitted. There isn't 10 million. Where's the guy who paid it back? Where is this suitcase with the 10 million so that we could say that everything is fine, the money was returned to the state budget, it was not stolen, the money was returned to Eesti Pank, it was made clear that it was a false transfer, there was a mistake, the money was back? The money's not back! Where's $32 million...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U57	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U58	... VEB Fund money? Missing!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U59	Minister, time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U60	That money isn't back. That money isn't back.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U61	Honourable Minister, the answer time is three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U62	So when we talk about corruption, we all have our own monsters in lockers. Open your closet doors, clean out the boogers, and then point your finger at everyone else!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U63	Thank you. Minister, we will try to keep to the three-minute response.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U64	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U65	Okay. Yes, Urmas Kruuse, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U66	If the minister's twice over 45 seconds, can we get more time to ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U67	Thank you. We have also taken a very liberal approach to questions here. But let's all try to keep to the time! The question is up to two minutes, up to three minutes. A more specific question, Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U68	Yeah, that question needs to be clarified. When I came to work this morning, I interrogated this episode, and Martin Helme clearly said that he didn't believe it, and you said that the Central Party has confessed its guilt by retrieving it. I completely agree with you, there is no debate about this at all, there is no question here. But in Estonian, the expression 'don't believe' means that it is considered a lie, i.e. the one speaking it is a liar. Also, 'acceptance of guilt' means being caught and convicted by lying. You told my colleague, Mr Kõivas, a few questions ago that politics must be and it must seem honest. I fully agree, there is no debate on this issue. My question to you is, how do you feel right now next to the Prime Minister, who you think is a liar deep down?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U69	A little bit of interpretation again. Martin said he didn't believe this woman's story. It's not that we don't believe the Prime Minister's story. He doesn't believe this woman's story, he doesn't believe that it was money for raising a child, and then they made a nose job like that. It is about other people, it is about the two people involved in the money, but not the Prime Minister who took the decision to return the money, and I criticised it. You're asking what we would have done with the money. I don't know, it's such a hypothetical argument. We don't have that kind of money. I answered one question earlier that we have taken a clear position from the start: we do not take money from businessmen, we do not take large donations from people because we know that there are no free lunches, and this could lead to complications that we want to avoid. All the more so because we, the Estonian Conservative People's Party, must be cleaner than any other party, because we are women haters, haters of strawberry growers, haters of farmers, we are nigger haters, we are the scariest people. Everyone who knows me says that I am a very nice and pleasant person, but in your approach, the image you create does not have scarier people in Estonia than the members and supporters of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. They're stupid, they're behind the shop, they're Bock friends, they're not sure what everything they're all about, right, they're racist, they're xenophobic, they're pro-closure, they're behind, they know nothing about IT, they know nothing about progressive ideas, they hate homosexuals. You see, this is one of the reasons why we made this decision quite early on: we don't mess with our money, because it hits us painfully and it beats us with accusations that aren't true about anything. We don't hate anybody. We stand for our traditional values and, in our opinion, important for Estonia's survival. If you don't like it, you have the right to criticise it politically, but what you do, and what our excellent media does, is our slander. And it's very low. This shows what the banana republic is like in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U70	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Although you do not trust the press very much and try to teach journalists, as you said honestly today, please tell me whether the fact that Mrs Juhaste was a member of the EKRE (one article went through), is true or not true. It seemed as if he was a member of the EKRE before he was made a member of the Central Party. Are you aware of this, or is it just a fiction that isn't true? And please tell the Prime Minister that if the shoes are clean and tossed, that's a good sign.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U72	What was the question? The question was whether the maker of this donation was a member of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. Yes, we checked the register, he was a member of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, I can't remember from my head what year to the year, but he left our party several years ago, if I remember correctly. There have been hundreds and hundreds of people coming through our party, I think, who have been party members for some time and then left the party, while more people are always joining our party when they leave the party. Well, that's the kind of blood exchange and movement, isn't it? I am pleased to say that our party is a plus, but leaving the Reform Party has created a very big disadvantage for the Reform Party. There's a lot of people leaving you, I don't know why. Maybe they're not happy with the party's leadership, maybe they're disappointed that the Reform Party is no longer a Reform Party, it's a backwards party, I can't say. In any case, it is true that this lady was a member of our party for a period of time, but everything that relates to this donation has come to my mind purely through the press. But what I'm trying to tell you is that journalism isn't the instant that condemns people. True, it is true that a politician can be killed in the same way as a fly with a newspaper. The actual rule of law, if Estonia is the rule of law, should be such that it is the court that brings to light the facts in the course of the investigation whether these facts are of a criminal nature and whether they give rise to a conviction or do not give rise to a conviction. Based on some journalistic speculation and my fantasy, of course, it can always be, but I suggest (one of the pagans, one of the first questioners, has written a lot of books, very interesting books, I also have these books on the shelf, not all, but many) that if you are both [high] fantasy-flying people and also possess literacy, then become writers. What are you messing with this policy that you're ruining your nerves and your nerves by fucking around here? Fabulize then by making it come true as fiction, so perhaps thousands of people will enjoy reading it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U73	Thank you. I'm gonna stop answering question six.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U74	Let's keep going. The seventh questioner is Urve Tiidus, the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, the subject is responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The presumption of innocence is a principle according to which no one is to be considered guilty of a criminal offence before a conviction has entered into force. This principle of presumption of innocence is contained in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, Article 22, and Article 6 (2) of the European Convention on Human Rights. You have emphasised this on several occasions today, and in the past, when asked about the last case of party funding, and you have every right to parse all possible accusations with this statement before the prosecutor's office takes a position on further proceedings. If the general concept of presumption of innocence gives the right to remain silent, the right to a presumption of innocence, etc., then undoubtedly as high a political position as you, Prime Minister, the exercise of this right in practice is not as easy as you have experienced and we have seen. But the freedom of political debate, the freedom of the media, the freedom of expression, they will not allow the subject to fade away, there is no hope. One reason is also that politicians are expected to be politically responsible. Political responsibility is known to be one of the virtues of which philosophers have written, since Aristotle. Aristotle, in the fourth century C.E., wrote about it in his national teaching, or political science. That is why my question is a little more philosophical than before: what degree of political responsibility on the scale of society's values should be taken as one of the virtues?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U76	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for the entire question, including the introduction to the question, where you quoted the laws in force in the Republic of Estonia. Now about political responsibility as a virtue. I think that political responsibility in Estonian society has become increasingly, say, higher, and this culture has increased more and more. I will give examples of my own political party in particular, rather than giving examples of other political parties. Yes, also during the three and a half years that I have had the honour and opportunity to lead this party and also to be a member of the government of the Republic of Estonia, some politicians of the Central Party have had to take political responsibility and very quickly. Sometimes political responsibility has taken place in hours, even though perhaps the understanding that a politician has said was not so clear, not so very specific, but it is precisely on this ground that responsibility has been taken and withdrawn. I do not know whether the point of your question was when I felt that political responsibility. In any case, I certainly feel political responsibility. After all, I think that every person inside is the sense that he is saying that he can no longer follow this path, one step backwards, political responsibility must be taken. I would even say that the return of this money, which we have talked about so much today, the return of this EUR 50000, was also, in that sense, a sense of political culture. You could have told me this day that no, we wouldn't wear it back. Having communicated with lawyers even after this return, I can say that this same interpretation of family law is not so one-to-one either. But yes, what has been going through here today is that it does not just have to be [such] in law terms, but it also has to look clear, concrete, transparent. That's why it had to look like it had to. This, too, is in a sense taking political responsibility very quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U77	Urve Tiidus, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U78	Thank you. Of course, I didn't ask you about that particular move. I asked what level of political responsibility should be on the scale of society's values as one of the virtues, perhaps [I wished] a somewhat generalistic view. Listening to your response, I remembered that there was recently such a case in Finnish politics that a member of the government, a minister, resigned, had entirely different reasons, etc. That's why I'm going to add a little question here. Do we have anything to learn from older democracies about this? It has nothing to do with your person, but [what is your] view as a political person?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U79	First of all, in society, I think this political responsibility must still take place (you didn't give a scale, whether it's from 1 to 10) at a high level, at a high level. This is the example that politicians set here. Yes, we can say that people do not care about politics or that they are far from it, but they do. It is simply because it was also reflected in society about politicians and politics that is rightly very strong. There is nothing to do, but it is about the life of Estonia in every sense that politicians decide here in the Riigikogu, which is decided at government level, in the local government. So the answer: it must definitely be very high. This is actually an example and it also reflects the behaviour patterns in society, whether to do so or to do so, whether it is somehow accepted and it is said that it is not a problem, we go on, or it is said that it is actually a problem. With corruption, I think it's the same feeling. I think that the fact that Estonia's policy has been relatively, compared to many countries, still more free of corruption, has added a great deal to the entire Estonian society, to any fair competition in business, etc. So that's how I feel about this, let's say, the scale of society, this political responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U80	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U81	Thank you. Today's Question Time has been very informative. I thank all the respondents for this! One very important informative part, in addition to the reason why ERJK was actually disbanded, also comes from the reply of the Minister of the Interior, where he said quite directly that the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia does not believe in the official version of the Prime Minister's party where it comes from, because it has not been communicated to the public by Jana-Helen Juhaste, but it is precisely the party of the Prime Minister that it really was. It's a hard word, and it's very interesting. I thank you very much too, George, for seeing you in my shoes five and a half years ago. I'll take that as a compliment, even though I don't understand what that has to do with it. But it's nice to know you missed your shoes. I'd like to put those shoes aside for a moment and ask you to focus on responding, not so much on beating up your political opponents. Please tell me what it was like. Can you say with certainty that none of the members of the board of your party had the slightest interest before 27 May and Mrs Jana-Helen Juhaste, who made this EUR 50,000 donation, which is undoubtedly extraordinary, before 27 May?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U82	Yes, I understand, good Taavi, how intensely you are looking for these conflicts in today's coalition, between coalition partners. You say look what Mart Helme said, and look what Jüri Ratas said, and so on. I could feel it this week by answering questions here on Monday and Tuesday. I actually understand the Reform Party. This is a difficult politically difficult situation for you today. And in order to find, I don't know, a pin in this haystack to get hold of this one chance, it's all going to work. Understood. You're actually going to ask a very fundamental and correct question if we now come to the heart of the matter of how political parties control these donations. I do not know how it will be in your party, whether if EUR 1 comes over or EUR 5 000 comes over or if some third amount comes over, the next day or the same day the chairman of your party will call that donor or the party's secretary-general will call. I think this case, too, no matter how it ends, we do not know how this 50000 [euro] case will end, gives this feeling to the Estonian political parties. Although the law does not so directly say how to control this money, whether it is by calling, by contact, it is not said, it is said that you need to know the name of the person, the personal identification number and that it is a programmed, world-view donation, but what are these procedures, it is not actually written in the law, and I think it is also correct, perhaps, that it is not written in the law. I do think that political parties from this case will actually learn and make their internal procedures even more stringent or concrete. We've done it. We also decided yesterday, in addition to previous decisions, to make the internal control party more effective and better. But there aren't many of those options. There are three to five questions that the party can ask the donor. If they are answered positively, basically, the party does not have more tools to control it further. It can really be done by law enforcement authorities. You're asking how many board members have spoken to this donor and on what dates. There's no such specific date timeline to bring to you today what time someone called, and I don't think I have to bring it here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U83	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U84	Today's eighth questioner is Eerik-Niles Kross. This is about political culture for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U85	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I will make an attempt to ask a substantive question and maybe a substantive debate will also succeed. I touch here several times on the draft of the transfer of functions of the ERJK to the National Audit Office. I understand that the government will have it on the agenda tomorrow, the government will take a position on this draft. Unfortunately, this position has not been seen in the Riigikogu so far, but we have heard more or less what the government thinks. The government wants to improve the quality of supervision with this bill. In my opinion, this bill, in the form it was before us once, has three legal problems. The first is the question of succession. It is not clear from the current draft that the functions of the ERJK will be transferred to the National Audit Office in such a way that the National Audit Office will continue to be a party to the proceedings in the cases pending. A little like a situation where the National Audit Office can choose whether or not it is a successor in law. In your opinion, however, would it not be a state of law that the things that are pending are going on without ambiguity? The second issue is the issue of obsolescence. There is now a situation where obsolescence can start to be implemented retroactively, which is generally not the rule of law. This also applies to pending cases. Do you think it should be that things that are currently in the process somewhere and which have been initiated by the ICTY go to the end that they do not go away because of this bill? Otherwise, you really get the feeling that this bill is just to get these things over with. I'm done with this right now. I leave the third problem for an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U86	Thank you for these questions. I guess we can go to the third [problem] with your explanatory question. First of all, your first question was related to the succession, as you mentioned, that if the function of the ERJK is transferred to the National Audit Office, will the things in progress continue. Well, I have responded since the bill was introduced here that yes, in my opinion there is no other option than to be sure to continue. It cannot be that at some point when the Riigikogu decides that the National Audit Office is going to supervise the funding of political parties, there are certain things that have been dealt with by the ERJK, for example, that we are not dealing with them, that there is no succession of law here, that is not our case, that we are now looking at everything from a pure page. No, I think everything that's in the process still needs to be taken over. The new instance, the National Audit Office (if the Riigikogu sees it that way), must see and decide what it will do to them. In any case, there can't be such a thing as putting them somewhere in a pile of paper and saying that it's over. Question two, obsolescence. I will respond immediately, I think it is the principle that we are not halfway to changing the legal regulation. You asked very specifically that some things are in the process and when the expiry date comes, whether this applies to them too. I think they have to go to the end with the set of rules that we have today. I can't imagine we've got a case, a limitation period should come up in general, and then we say, oh, you see, it's going to expire, too. Usually, good legal practice is that things are processed to the end with the rules that have been in place at that point. But if you're asking in general whether there should be some kind of limitation period for any new cases, I think we could discuss that. We could discuss whether this is three years, which is now, or whether it could be longer. I'd rather think it shouldn't be shorter than, in any case, longer. Some have said that it could last for a single Riigikogu, some have said that two formations, either four or eight years. I think that this could be debated and, if it is extended for three years, then, I believe yes, it makes sense. The government will assess this if the government holds its own meeting, and it will also shape its own position. I also think that when we talk specifically about this draft, it is at reading, summer is sometimes there, amendments can be made, and that is how it needs to be handled here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U87	Eerik-Niles Kross, clarification question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U88	I'll continue the question. The third problem, in my opinion, is constitutional, more generally legal philosophy. However, if the National Audit Office is, according to the Constitution, intended to control the use of public funds, that is due to the Constitution, it can be admitted that this part of the funding of political parties, the funds coming from the state budget, could perhaps be verified by the National Audit Office, the use of this part. But I see a serious problem when the National Audit Office begins to control the use of funds received from private individuals by a private association, i.e. a party. In doing so, we will create a situation where this law enters into force in this way, where the state will still intervene in a new way in the activities of NGOs. Do you think this is right in law philosophy in the rule of law and in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U89	Thank you, too, for this question. I think the question goes a little further. First of all, there has been a discussion in this Chamber, not with you, but with your co-workers about the fact that you see it being given to the National Audit Office because it controls only state allocations, but does not have the right to control private donations. If the authority or organisation supervising the funding of political parties does not have the right to verify the overall picture, it does not make sense to grant it [the right of supervision]. This is only reasonable if it can still control the whole picture, the whole scale, the donations of people and public funding. You ask a more philosophical question whether it is right at all that the National Audit Office controls the donations of private persons or whether it is legally reasonable. I think these rights can certainly be granted to the National Audit Office. When this discussion came under discussion in 2011, let us say that there was no such verification mechanism before then, then the Chancellor of Justice then also pointed out that the supervision of the funding of political parties could actually be carried out by the National Audit Office. The fact that raising the level of the ERJK has been considered within a certain period of time in the last nine years is no secret. It has been said quite a lot that the National Audit Office could actually assume this competence. I do not see the problem when it is given to the National Audit Office. In any case, it is important that the [right] is given to check the full picture, not that it is said that no, the donation of private persons does not have the right to control the National Audit Office. Then it's going back. This would be a fall in quality, not a rise in quality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U90	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Mart Helme was upset in one answer because today's Supervisory Committee wants to investigate things that he should not be examining in terms of political parties, I might refer in a general context, and he should not be able to do certain things. I'm ashamed to admit it was a surprise to me. This was a surprise precisely because, if we want to get the full picture, as you are describing at the moment, of the funding and operation of political parties, it seems to me that it must be possible to control everything that has happened with the funding of political parties. Can't you see a contradiction here when you say here that, of course, the National Audit Office should be able to control everything, but your coalition partner says no, they shouldn't stick their noses anywhere, that it is not a shadow theatre? How, then, can you implement it in such a way that everything becomes more visible, transparent and understandable to the public?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U92	Thank you. I don't know, it seems to me that you are dealing with this shadow theater, you are putting together the answers of the various participants in Question Time, you are skilfully binding the ERJK and the National Audit Office. It is a question of a mandate. The Minister of the Interior spoke about the mandate of today's situation. I was talking about the mandate [which arises] when the Riigikogu decides that it will go to the National Audit Office, about what I think this mandate should be. I have just said here, in reply to Mr Kross, that this mandate cannot be less, it cannot be less, it must be specific, it must be clear. When I say that this is a new level or an increase in quality, I believe that there will be another quality, there will certainly be other resources, there will certainly be a greater capacity. So, in my opinion, you have skilfully linked two different answers, but for two different bodies: one is ERJK and the other is the National Audit Office. They cannot be compared as well as you have raised the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U93	Thank you. I will stop answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U94	As there is at least one question and answer to the end of Question Time, members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to submit their questions to a freely elected minister. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U95	Thank you very much. My question is to the Prime Minister. You have probably read in the media that we are discussing the law on psychiatric assistance here in the Riigikogu. We have tried six times since the first reading to get it to the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, and we have now finally got it. This bill has been supported by the government, this bill has been supported by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Justice, but this, as I have now understood, is certainly not supported by the EKRE or probably by the Fatherland. How do you feel about whether minors, young people aged 16 to 17, can approach a psychiatrist on their own without parental consent in case of concern? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U96	Thank you. Yeah, I know that question too. It is true that there may not have been political support here in the Riigikogu at the moment, but I think the subject is very topical. I have talked about this with both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Chairman of the Commission. There is certainly a need to find a solution here in order to move forward from today's situation. What exactly is the solution? We must find the best way, I mean, in the deliberations of the commission. If you ask whether today's situation is sufficient, I think it is not enough and better solutions should be found here. You mentioned those who have assessed it in support of this, quite a number of ministries, and at the moment there is a debate right here at the level of the Riigikogu. So I think there should be some better solution here than today's organisational situation envisages.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U97	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U98	Thank you, Mr President. I have a question for Home Secretary Mart Helme. The Prime Minister has had to answer questions about seasonal labour in the Riigikogu several times, literally about migrant labour [who is here] seasonally, and he has not been able to state very clearly when Estonian agriculture could get it. We know that a decision has been taken at European level which allows them to be introduced by [workers] exceptionally, today there are not even health reasons [which would prevent it]. Maybe you, as minister, can say that. The borders of Schengen are now open, in fact the high season has also reached the stage of berry farming, and we can see that these Estonian unemployed people have not arrived there [for work]. In addition, we read in the paper that the problem that they do not want to officially get paid and go to work is that they have quite a lot of responsibilities and that they do not want to either fulfil these obligations or pay them [the money]. As a member of the government, can you tell us today when Estonian strawberry growers will receive the labour for which they have also paid the state fees? The PBGB has continued its procedures and has allowed them to register the workforce, but they are not allowed to come to Estonia yet. What prevents the people who have already been paid for the state fees from being brought here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U99	I would say that the Reform Party has always been a very pro-European party. In principle, it has been decided at European Union level, with the participation of the Member States, of course, that the external border, the border with third countries, will open from 1 July. The answer is: 1 July, after 1 July. These permits, which have been processed, can then be introduced. If you ask me for my personal opinion on this whole thing, then all the energy of this handful of, in fact, a handful of larger strawberry growers should not have gone into a major media war, but in the search for a labour force. If, for a month they had waged war with the government and accused the Minister of the Interior of grave sins again, they would have dealt with the search for labour, then this issue would have been resolved a long time ago. But instead of looking for a workforce on whom they would have paid taxes, who they would have properly registered, from whom they would also have paid social tax, to whom they would have created decent working conditions, accommodation arrangements, health care conditions, if they had dealt with all of this for a month, the issue would have been solved, the government has been accused for a month. This is the wrong policy, and this government, I dare say it in front of people sitting on my left and right hand, will not be blackmailed. If you ask, why doesn't the state bring them here on some sort of special flight, can you imagine how many special flights are needed to bring some 1,000 people here? How much will it cost the country and who will ultimately pay for it? If Estonian strawberry is three times more expensive than Polish or Greek strawberry anyway, who will pay for it? The consumer does not buy such expensive eggs. Consequently, this makes no sense, so this whole economic model is not actually sustainable and these people need to draw their own conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, we are no longer able to ask a question or answer the question. Thank you very much to all the questioners. Thank you for answering the members of the government. Today's Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U101	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 18th working week Wednesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U102	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legal Affairs Committee has decided to initiate a draft law amending § 62 of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. Today, this is a rather incomprehensible situation where the person who has suffered material damage or damage to health due to a misdemeanour has no right of access to the materials collected in the course of the proceedings. Would the President of the sitting have more silence in [the Chamber]? It's such an important subject. Can I ask you a question? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U103	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U104	Indeed, it is completely unfounded that a person who has suffered a misdemeanour has the right to have access to a misdemeanour settlement, but not to have access to a file. In order to recover material damage, a civil court shall have jurisdiction. However, it is now not possible for a person to use the data collected during the proceedings. This is completely incomprehensible and completely unreasonable. This has also been pointed out by the Chancellor of Justice, who turned to the Riigikogu about a year ago and found that little of the fact that this is not justified in substance, but also contrary to the Constitution. The same large hall here almost a year ago voted in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, or supported the initiation of the amendment of § 62 of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. This bill is written for that purpose. On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, it is a great honour for me to hand it over, even though it has also been transmitted electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U105	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of handing over the report of the Special Committee on State Budget Control for the period May 2019 to June 2020. I think it has been a very meaningful year. As is always interesting, if the opposition has the microphone, then it will be more interesting. We have dealt with a wide range of topics, from the construction of the border to the Health Insurance Fund last time. We have had contact with the famous food scandal, we have unfortunately had to deal quite thoroughly with budgetary policy failures and, of course, repeatedly with the problems of the implementation of crisis measures. Not all points are going to be read out, but I believe there has also been a hearing from public sources about what we are dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U107	Thank you. No further members of the Riigikogu wish to submit any questions or drafts. I have adopted one draft and one report. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, presence control, please! 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 15. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! Clarification of the agenda. I would like to point out that the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled 'Given a state guarantee under Article 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 establishing temporary support to alleviate unemployment risk in emergency situations resulting from the outbreak of the COVID-19 outbreak', which is also on the agenda of the Riigikogu, requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption. You don't have that on the yellow pages, for your information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U108	We will continue the debate on the draft law 195 amending the law on bankruptcy and other laws that was not completed yesterday. I ask for a presentation by Jaanus Karilaiu, Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs. So today we will continue to work on the last item on yesterday's agenda. Jaanus Karilaid, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U109	Thank you to the manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for first reading on 1 June and all members of the Committee on Legal Affairs took part. I would remind you that the main objectives of the draft are to make bankruptcy proceedings faster, more cost-effective and more transparent, with the aim also to identify the insolvency caused intentionally or by negligence and to improve the business climate in Estonia. In order for you to understand the context in which we want to find out: it usually takes three years for bankruptcy proceedings in Estonia and it takes 9% of bankruptcy assets, the satisfaction rate for creditors is on average 40%, in neighbouring Finland bankruptcy proceedings usually last one year, it takes 3% of bankruptcy assets and the satisfaction rate for creditors is on average 80 to 90%. I would also like to remind you what is more important than the creation of insolvency service for the Competition Authority. Firstly, the procedure for the protection and recognition of claims in bankruptcy proceedings will be redesigned, secondly, a greater specialisation of courts in insolvency matters, thirdly, a more transparent system for the remuneration of insolvency practitioners, fourthly, an extension of the obligation to file for bankruptcy and, fifthly, a temporary flexibility of the restructuring plan and debt restructuring. These are the main objectives of this draft. We proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 16 June, but it has moved on to today's date. The proposal is to conclude the first reading. We have knowingly set the deadline for submitting proposals at 4 p.m. on 17 September and appointed Jaanus Karilaiu as rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U110	Thank you, dear waitress. For you... No, there are questions. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Businesses sometimes have questions up. If we look at the so-called honest business and the disappearance of the rod into the water literally, it has been a question of whether a change has been made for those board members who have signed contracts and who have been registered in the business register. The question is that register data and real positions do not normally coincide, which concerns a certain time shift in relation to possible other decisions. Businesses who seem to be convinced that the contract is right and fair and that the signatures are valid will at some point find themselves in dispute in the situation that they were not up there at that point. Was the subject even addressed in this situation or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U112	No, it wasn't handled. But when we talk about how companies are transferred and that at some point the company does not have a manager, the obligation to file for bankruptcy was extended. And if it happens that the company does not have a manager, knowingly or unconsciously, at this point in time, the responsibility for filing for bankruptcy goes to the shareholders or board members of the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U113	Thank you. Paul Woodland, you asked your two questions yesterday. Toomas Kivimägi must have asked his two questions. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Uus päev!'???]] A new day, but the same bill and the same rules of procedure. Does anyone have a limit on two questions? If not, thank you to the waitress. Does the political groups of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 195. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 17 September at 16 a.m. The first item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U114	Let's keep going. The second item is the first reading of the draft law amending § 140 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, which was initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask Kaja Kallas, a member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U115	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this is a bill amending § 140, of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, or to supplement it with paragraph 11 as follows: 'In the event of an emergency, emergency, emergency or martial law, an inquiry must be answered within 4 days of the sitting of the Riigikogu, after having forwarded the inquiry to the addressee. ' The background to this draft is that Estonia is a parliamentary state and Parliament should have control over the government's activities, but in an emergency, we saw that in fact Parliament does not have much influence on this whole process. It is also not possible to carry out parliamentary scrutiny, because the time for responding to enquiries is so long that, in fact, these answers are not possible through an inquiry at a time of emergency when it is necessary to assess whether decisions have been taken correctly or not. The purpose of this draft is to improve the information sharing between the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic. Although the Prime Minister repeatedly stressed the importance of answering questions as soon as possible during an emergency, the reality was quite different, as is always the case with the Prime Minister's words. In particular, when an inquiry was submitted to the Minister for Education and Research on 2 April, he replied only to the inquiry submitted on 4 May, 20 April, on 9 June. The Minister of Social Affairs also replied to the inquiry submitted on 2 April on 15 May. So the purpose of this draft is to speed up the response to enquiries, and only during an emergency situation. Otherwise, the law provides for 20 days of sitting to reply, but in that case it would be 4 days of sitting. That's a very good bill. As you may be in opposition sometimes, it is worth supporting this bill because it strengthens the position of the Riigikogu in general Estonia as a parliamentary state, as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U116	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Andrei Korobenik.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U117	I'm not quite sure it's a very good bill. § 74 of the Estonian Constitution says: 'An inquiry must be answered at the Riigikogu session within twenty days of the sitting. " You are fundamentally changing the Rules of Procedure, but there is something different to change the Constitution: two formations must vote in this [amendment], etc. Do you expect those ambassadors who are currently supporting the draft to send it to the President to reject it because of this contradiction? Or what's the bigger plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U118	Thank you. That's a good question. I'm glad that question came up. Indeed, § 74 of the Constitution says that the time for answering questions is 20 days of sitting. But it's a maximum rate, you can answer in any case for a shorter time. We take Article 74 of this same constitution, which has actually been restricted to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act in the past, when we are talking about enquiries. By this logic, it could also be narrowed down in the event of an emergency situation. What's the restriction I'm referring to? Paragraph 139 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act concerns enquiries and states that enquiries can be submitted to those persons listed in the Constitution, but it narrows down the procedure for submitting enquiries, stating that enquiries must concern the enforcement of the laws governing the authority of that body or authority. The Constitution does not provide for such a restriction. Similarly, § 139 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure states that if an inquiry is in accordance with the limitations I have spoken about, the President of the Riigikogu will forward it to the addressee. In fact, this severely narrows down the meaning of the Constitution when it comes to questioning. This provision has been repeatedly used by the Chairman of the Riigikogu, at least in the case of the opposition, if he has not sent any further inquiries. This procedure has been accepted by the Riigikogu, i.e. it has accepted that responding to enquiries is restricted by the Riigikogu's law on domestic and working procedures. Therefore, I do not see a contradiction when the Riigikogu agrees in its domestic and operational procedures that in the case of emergency situations, such as emergency situations, emergency situations, martial law, the answers to questions must come within this period, i.e. more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U119	Good manager! Good waitress! Of course, if there's an emergency, you have to move faster. But if I remember correctly, the US Deputy Secretary of Defense has said that it may take about 60 hours to conquer Tallinn. Leaving aside a contradiction or no conflict with the Constitution, but if during martial law the Prime Minister or the Minister of Social Affairs Kiik has to respond in four days' time, but Tallinn has already been taken, who will he answer? We've already been disbanded. Maybe we should get martial law out of there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U120	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U121	Thank you for that question. I understand that your proposal would be that during martial law, this response could take place much faster, otherwise it will be too late. I think this amendment may be considered and may be proposed. Maybe it wouldn't have been given four days, but it should be done extremely quickly. Although, if there are still martial law (I simply mean purely practically), I do not believe that anyone is going to ask written questions, but in a small society, as Estonia is, we will try to get answers quickly, in an operational way, that the Estonian state will survive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U122	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U123	Thank you. Indeed, I fully agree with you that if there is an agreement and the person to whom an enquiry is made responds more quickly, it is very welcome. But we're not talking about a deal here, we're talking about a bill. You have a legal education. Did I understand that you were deliberately launching this bill, knowing that such a section of the Constitution exists then is that the wording of your bill is not in conflict with § 74 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U124	Thank you. That is my answer: our interpretation is that it is not contrary to § 74 of the Constitution, because the Riigikogu has, in the past, narrowed down the procedure for replying to inquiries in its own domestic and operational rules, and unfortunately in Parliament, this restriction would actually be in Parliament's favour at the moment. So, yes, I think using this analogy... [[A voice from the hall.]] There is no contradiction, in short. If there is a contradiction, we should certainly also take up this topic and initiate constitutional monitoring of the work of the Chairman of the Riigikogu [to clarify] whether it is in accordance with the Constitution that our enquiries will not be passed on, justifying what the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act § 139, which restricts the response to inquiries.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U125	Thank you. Please ask the waitress questions directly to the microphone, not previously recorded. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U126	Thank you, Mr President. I'll ask you straight. Ladies and gentlemen, if this was the subject of a debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it was precisely this [question] that the Constitution came into being in agreement with this draft of yours. During the proceedings, both you and Taavi Kõivas promised to make an inquiry to the Chancellor of Justice or to [order] an analysis (any way to call it) from the Chancellor of Justice. Did you do that, and if you didn't, why didn't you do it when you promised?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U127	I don't remember that kind of promise. I think someone proposed, and we said why not ask the Chancellor of Justice. I don't remember that promise. But, as I said, it is certainly possible to examine what the various constitutional institutions think about this. Then, I think, it should certainly be linked to the constraints on the home and working procedures of the second Riigikogu, which severely narrows the procedure for answering questions and is currently very clearly implemented to the detriment of the opposition. So I think this approach might have something to do with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U128	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U129	Madame Kallas! I wanted to clarify from you one other thing that relates to exactly the same subject and to highlighting the concept of an emergency situation. There is also a second draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which essentially assumes that the special situation was a special practice for our country and maybe some things should be corrected. In the same way, it is assumed that the special situation as a separate concept is important. It is addressed not directly to the Constitution, but to another law. I am talking about a draft law amending the [Higher] Law on salaries of civil servants. I understand that your logic is quite similar to the logic that I had when I drafted this bill. Why are you in favour of this law, rather against another law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U130	Thank you. First of all, there is a paragraph (I do not remember what its number is at the moment), which concerns the salary of members of the Riigikogu, very clearly stated in the Constitution, and is a decision of the Supreme Court which interprets this section and concludes that the Riigikogu can amend it only for the next composition. This does not mean that the whole issue of emergency should not be discussed more widely. By this I mean that throughout this emergency situation, which was a new situation for all of us, a whole series of issues have come up that maybe could be dealt with in the collection and look at the things that we can do during the emergency situation, what we cannot do and what we have to change to do. The difference between these two drafts is that in one case there is a Supreme Court ruling that already interprets it, and in the other section there is no Supreme Court ruling. Perhaps in one case we would start the same argument, which has already been negotiated, and in the other there is no dispute. Perhaps this dispute should be dealt with whether such restrictions or extensions are compatible with the Constitution or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U131	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm trying to refresh your memory, although during my current practice, I have the impression that your memory is absolutely phenomenal when it is necessary to remember some other things. That's my question, did you send the [inquiry] to the Chancellor of Justice, was right here in front of this courtroom, and I specifically went to Taavi's garment to ask him about it in his place. My message was that if you get the answer to the inquiry from the Chancellor of Justice that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, you will withdraw the draft. I'm extremely disappointed that I've thought you were a very honest person, that you're suddenly starting to freak out in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U133	Thank you. Yeah, unfortunately, I can't say the same. I really don't remember having this conversation with you guys. I can't say the same about you, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U134	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U135	Thank you. I also think, in this first example, that there is a reason for discussing why some members of the Riigikogu are making populist amendments to the Constitutional Law. But this paragraph, which could be the theoretical reason why, in the opinion of the Constitution, the executive would need protection against parliamentary supervision? How can it be interpreted in such a way that the government suffers when it gives quick answers during an emergency? Do you understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U136	In my opinion, the government is not suffering because we have a parliamentary state and the government has to give Parliament answers. Parliament has been elected by the people in direct elections of the same kind, and executive power is exercised by a government that has to answer to Parliament. All the ministers we had in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the former ministers and current ministers, of course, are not there, did not object to the questioning being answered at the moment when the issue is topical. This longer period is probably intended to allow for thorough preparation, and officials may be able to provide the relevant information to ministers. But in any case, being informed by the Minister is also better at the moment when it is going on, not weeks later. As I have repeatedly pointed out here, we do not want to impose any excessive burdens, but are trying to improve the effectiveness of parliamentary control in times of emergency when things and decisions are urgent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U137	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did I understand correctly from your explanation that, according to the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu, the one point that has been tested in the Supreme Court, the amendment we are discussing, is based on the fact that since the board or chairman of the Riigikogu may not pass on certain enquiries, this practice is working every day, and therefore the change that we are doing today does not bring anything further, but if anyone wants it, I do not know, in court, to challenge or bring this dispute to the Supreme Court, we can get either a reply to this same procedure or another? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U139	First of all, the Supreme Court has not contested this section, at least as far as I know. I couldn't find any solutions to that. However, this section on the salary of members of the Riigikogu has been challenged. With regard to this [today] paragraph, I believe and hope that we will not have an emergency situation again anytime soon. Perhaps we have time to go through this path of constitutional control. But in such a case, you should really look at the whole of the section that deals with enquiries in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. The current practice, as well as the text of the law, actually restricts the possibility for members of the opposition or parliament to ask questions from the government and to receive answers by inquiry. This constitution does not really provide for it. If we take the view that the amendment we have proposed significantly narrows down and goes against the Constitution because it is, as if, limiting the deadline for replying, this section should be looked at as a whole and also look at whether the other restrictions that have been in force for years are constitutional.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U140	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Please give an example of what information this might be, which cannot be retrieved from existing sources of information, but which is so urgent that it is justified to impose such an additional burden on members of the government. It's just an example of what this information is supposed to be or what's so important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U142	Thank you. Now let's think about the emergency we had. In fact, there were quite a number of such examples. I'm trying to remember everything about distance learning. One day there will be the same reports, the other day there will be different reports. In fact, it is very confusing among people that when children go to school anyway, for what reason they go, how they go, how it's going to be. In fact, regarding the organisation of distance learning, which was very topical, we did not receive any answers at that moment. Those were quick things, things that interested people. The same applies to the procurement of masks. Indeed, in the press we received information that the purchase of masks was bad, but we did not have any serious claims. For example, you yourself are here in the Riigikogu Chair, if, for example, we have asked the press for something, so said, how you now rely on the press, you should still rely on more specific sources. That is why it would be a good thing if this source were the Government of the Republic, which provides this information about how it is organised, what has been done to prevent the emergence of any new disasters on which decisions have been based. It's fast stuff. We are a parliamentary state. It cannot be that the government has all the knowledge and absolute truth, and we Members of Parliament are here simply, I don't know, just that when a decision comes, we must be blindly in agreement with it. We don't have to be. We've been chosen here by the people to do our job.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U143	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U144	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! If I speak Estonian or understand it correctly, according to § 74 of the Constitution, inquiries must be answered within 20 days of the sitting. Perhaps you can answer in all the days that are included. But I'm going to deal with the subject in a slightly broader time context. Again, if I remember correctly, the constitution was adopted in 1992, perhaps a long time ago. At the time, the problem was that ministries may have needed more time to answer questions. But now, given the entire e-state and the working capacity of the ministries, ministers will actually be able to answer questions much faster. Should not the time limit for replying to enquiries in normal circumstances be reduced? Maybe we should change the constitution at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U145	Thank you. I think that if the Riigikogu thinks so, the Constitution could indeed be changed. I also agree that 20 days of sitting is a very long time and could be shorter. Just as you said, the time has gone on, our lives have gone much faster than it was at the time of adoption of the Constitution. You remember that there wasn't yet an Internet, a fax and a letter sent questions. Now it's possible to get things and get on with them. Our lives have become faster in every sense, in communication with authorities and in general. I do not mean the members of the Riigikogu, I mean the whole of society. Therefore, yes, I think it could be shortened. Why not initiate a constitutional change in this way also for the ordinary situation? But, as we all know, it requires a majority of votes in favour of two successive formations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U146	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It got me thinking about Mrs. Kingo's question about what kind of situation there might be such an urgent need for information, and I thought I'd ask. Can one of these situations be one of those, we imagine that a member of the government, a minister, for example, has given the Riigikogu either directly false information or misleading information, including his questionable frame decisions, and there may be an urgent need to find out what has happened then and whether this person has deliberately misled Parliament, given false information, whether he is fit for office during an emergency situation? Could this be one of these examples, if we members of the Riigikogu were to benefit from this opportunity to receive this information quickly? Of course, information flow is an important thing in times of emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U148	Thank you. I think neither you nor I can think of any possible situation here that might arise when a Member of Parliament needs information about the activities of a member of the government. I believe that this is a question of the independence of Members of Parliament. As we know, Members of Parliament are free to exercise their mandate. It is up to everyone to decide exactly what kind of questions they want to make. I don't think there's anything to limit it. But yes, I also tried to give examples because the question was. But it is certainly not exhaustive and there are also very different situations. This time we had a health crisis, but there may be another crisis where there are entirely different questions than there were this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U149	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U150	Thank you again, Mr President. Good waitress! I didn't get a reasonable answer to my question before. By these available sources of information, I certainly did not mean the press, but I meant that the Prime Minister regularly communicated the crisis to the members of the Riigikogu. In the same way, every week there were briefings where ministers existed, where questions could be asked, in parallel work took place in committees, where all these issues, as your example, were discussed and decisions were taken. Please give some concrete example of what we, as members of the Riigikogu, did not deal with at all during this crisis or with which we did not come into contact, but it would be so urgent to find out that it would be justified to create such an additional burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U151	Thank you. You are here for the first time in the Riigikogu and you have had a good opportunity to be in the coalition this whole time. I look forward to this time, if you are in opposition, you may not have these questions again. But I would say this about the letter that the Prime Minister sent to the members of the Riigikogu, that it was certainly very good that this information came to us every day. It was information that actually existed in the papers of that day, it wasn't something we otherwise wouldn't have gotten, but it was very good that it came every day and we had the information in one place. Now about Riigikogu briefings. Maybe you haven't been involved. First, the minister has three minutes to answer and the member of the Riigikogu has two minutes to ask. This is a short time, and in that time (maybe you have followed the Riigikogu's briefings) we do not actually get specific answers. The same example, the arrangement of distance learning. For the Ministry of Education and Research, there were very specific questions about questioning. This cannot be handled during Question Time. Secondly, for example, the subject of masks. In the same way, it was necessary to obtain specific answers to questions concerning the conduct of these procurements. This [information] cannot be obtained from public sources and cannot be obtained in documented or written form during the Riigikogu Question Time or asked for more information, as is possible in the case of an inquiry. The other ambassadors will be able to ask about it. So, yes, unfortunately, if you are in opposition, you may understand this need better than you do when you are in the coalition. I'm afraid that's the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U152	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U153	Good manager! Good waitress! I fully understand the opposition's concerns that I will not get a proper response in time. But as you mentioned, time has grown faster. Have you seen that maybe when you start repairing the Constitution, looking at the deadlines, there are others, § 60, § 66, etc.? If the President is three months, as is the case now, he said that when will the Riigikogu [choose] the new Head of State? We should look at it as a whole. But on the other hand, have you not thought about it, I have been in opposition, and I think it is general, that even if during a period of great peace, you can ask the Minister something and if he can say anything, there is still no answer, even if there are two questions? So that's not the only problem. Have you looked at the wider picture? You've come up with a narrow thing right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U154	Thank you. We really haven't looked at the wider picture. The quite honest answer is that we have not looked at the whole Constitution with such an eye. At the moment, it was a problem that arose during this emergency. With regard to the second part of your answer: perhaps you will also explain to your colleague that these answers cannot be obtained from ministers in Question Time. Maybe your answer to Kert Kingo was more like it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U155	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U156	Thank you. I admit that I did not get a reasonable answer from you, either, like Mr Kingog, to his question as to why Parliament needs information at all. Can you provide a reasonable answer to such a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U157	Thank you. Jürgen, according to your criteria, I think a reasonable answer can only be obtained if you answer, while you ask. [[Whispering in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U158	Thank you. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U159	Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you to the President, thank you to the previous waitress. I cannot fail to say immediately that I must also thank all the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The sittings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have always been very engaging, very intense and moody, in a very positive sense, no matter what kind of questions arise, they are healthy and very often provoke strong discussions. This bill 182 today is no exception. Indeed, we had a very healthy and very strong discussion. I have to say that good Echo has a very serious ability to tackle the problem and present it in such a way that it can also instill coalition politicians. I may have gone to the committee after I did, tossed it, but I really couldn't get my wish, because Echo had just done his job well. But ultimately, we're here with what? We are here right now before your good ears and eyes with the idea that a certain section of the Constitution should, however, begin to be interpreted, amended. Here is this small and very important nuance that the sections of the Constitution are not only responsibilities, they are principles and they are rights. If, after all, one paragraph in the Constitution says that there is a right to do something for a certain period of time, then limit it, change it, ban it, I do not know if that right exists. But this is not really my message either, because I am here now to report what happened in the Commission. A meeting was held at the Commission on 9 June, including: For the sake of the protocol, I repeat that the members of the committee, Kalle Grünthal, Kaja Kallas, Erkki Keldo, who replaced Hanno Pevkur, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Martin Repinski and Taavi Rõivas, were also present. As I said, we had a very exciting conversation on this issue, as far as it is compatible with the Constitution or not in accordance with the Constitution. I will bring out a few, just a few (as I said, the discussion was long) remarks that not too much is going to repeat what has already been here, and to give an overview of what happened. Kaja Kallas also said in our sitting that he understands that the deadline for replying in normal circumstances could still be longer in order for ministers to be able to prepare sufficient answers, but the special situation is what should justify this shorter deadline. Perhaps he suggested that the state of emergency would allow the Constitution to be viewed differently. Mr Kiisler was the first to take the floor immediately and said that the Pro Patria Group discussed this draft and took it with great understanding and sympathy, but he had an important question. Again, the same § 74 of the Constitution and the reference to the fact that Article 74 of the Constitution provides for the possibility of replying for up to 20 days. This is a maximum deadline, which doesn't mean you can't answer faster. Kaja Kallas replied that yes, the Constitution provides for a maximum deadline, as he said here, which time will surely have to answer the question, but nothing more. For my part, I have also said that I am familiar with § 74 of the Constitution, and it seems to me that there is indeed a contradiction with the Constitution in the case of Bill 182. I tried to convince the Commission that the idea of introducing this amendment was not a good one. I stressed that the 20 days of sitting laid down in the Constitution do not give a lower limit, but set a more distant limit. With this, I supported the opinion of Mr Kisler. Taavi Kõivas, for his part, said that he understood the provisions of the Constitution in such a way that 20 days of sitting were not to be spent. The Constitution defends here that within 20 days of the sitting Parliament must receive an answer; the Constitutional provision is, in fact, for the protection of the person asking. The garment called for a constructive discussion of the draft. This is also the call with which Echo here has repeatedly appeared today. Taavi Kõivas also said that he felt it was important to discuss and analyse this issue further, which is the best option at the moment. In his view, the first reading of the draft could certainly be concluded and the issue discussed in greater depth before the second reading. The Reform Party also does not wish to adopt a law contrary to the Constitution, it was his oppression. Mr Kiisler agreed that this could be thoroughly analysed. There had been a very benevolent debate in the Isamaa Group, during which the subject was dealt with. Kaja Kallas referred to a commentary on the Constitution, which states that the 20 days' period of questioning applies to the normal situation. In the Kaja's view, the first reading could be completed first and then further discussed. The woodland added that, in his view, such an interpretation of the Constitution would be too creative. I added that I cannot accept that, if there is a special situation, the Constitution does not apply and that it removes the right to reply on, for example, the seventh day. My point was that the Constitution provides for 20 [days] and now it is intended to limit it to four days, but if a person wanted to answer on the fifth, sixth or seventh day and the Constitution even on the 20th day provides for this possibility, then how will we still take away this right without amending the Constitution? Kalle Grünthal added that 20 days of sitting have not been set in stone; this is the maximum time limit and can be answered earlier. Well, that's been said many times. Taavi Kõivas agreed that going into conflict with the Constitution must in any case be avoided. He proposed to set a longer deadline for amendments to the draft 182 in this regard so that it could be discussed in the committees in the autumn before the deadline for tabling amendments. The woodland had to be rejected with the intention. The majority of the Commission, as I said earlier, under the influence of Echo, did not accept this proposal. We argued what we were arguing about, but in the end, procedural decisions were taken and these were the following. It was proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 16 June, including the consensus decision, that the first reading be closed (majority in favour: 5 votes for, 3 against), that the deadline for amendments be longer, i.e. 25 September inclusive, and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs be appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U160	Thank you. You have questions. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In my opinion, the Constitution does not, however, limit the shortening of this period; there is a maximum deadline. But in your report, you pointed out that such a proposal would be an excessive interpretation of the Constitution, or how that exact wording was. Could you bring me a parallel, please? We have one draft procedure, the assignment of the tasks of the Political Financing Supervisory Commission to the National Audit Office. Although the Constitution clearly states what the National Audit Office should deal with, it is as if it has been found that it is possible to assign additional tasks to it. What is the difference between the two changes? How can the Constitution be interpreted in such a way that it fits down there, but in another case it cannot? Would you bring legal arguments as to what this difference is, why in one case can and not in another?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U162	Thank you very much, good questioner. Although we did not discuss this nuance in the Commission, I say that perhaps I did not have the word 'interpretation' in use correctly, because I still wanted to stress that the reform party is currently offering a limit on the constitutional rule. Maybe he'll change the meaning of the Constitutional rule by adding a ban that shouldn't actually be there. The Constitution gives rights in this case and, if the Constitution gives the right to reply within 20 days, how can the law of the subjects say no that this rule does not apply, make time shorter? I would point out here that, as far as I know, only three paragraphs, § 12, § 48 and § 148 appear to be in the Constitutional language, there are no other prohibitions. As far as interpretation is concerned, this is one of the biggest mistakes of our legal creation, that the Constitution is interpreted and thus the Constitution is amended and literally the Constitution is squirmed. The Constitution must not be ambivalent; it must be clear, as simple as possible, so that we ourselves must rule out such possibilities. We can't open that door. Thank you. Oh, sorry, yes, the other half. I just wanted to say that here is now a question of understanding how anyone understands. For example, I understand that if we refer to § 133 of the Constitution, which deals with the question of the National Audit Office, this certainly does not preclude the use of the National Audit Office instead of the ERJK, it does not rule out any way. I see the possibilities both through point 2 and point 3 and I also stress that if the Chancellor of Justice himself proposed that the National Audit Office be applied for this purpose, then I do not have the courage and the strength to say that the Chancellor of Justice broke the meaning, meaning and norms of the Constitution from the light, making such a proposal to the large hall here too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U163	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Andrei Korobenik, please, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U164	Good ambassadors! As we have learned here in the meantime, § 74 of the Estonian Constitution says that an inquiry must be answered during the session of the Riigikogu within 20 days. This is a bill 182 and it says that the Riigikogu must reply within four days of the sitting. It is very difficult to believe that this is an interpretation. If one place says 20 and another place 4 it is very difficult to interpret them in the same way. The President of Estonia has repeatedly accused the Riigikogu that the quality of legislation is not very high. It's a bill. Let's read this part of the explanatory memorandum like "Remarks." The only comment here is that a majority of the membership is needed for adoption. Then there's the effects of the Law. This chapter is empty, there is no word anywhere about the draft law changing the constitution, not anywhere. I'm afraid he will. Indeed, it may be discussed whether writing the number of days in the text of the Constitution is very reasonable or not. But it's there. At the formal sitting of the Constitutional Committee on the 100th anniversary of the Estonian Constitution, the Chancellor of Justice also mentioned that the Constitution is not a toy. If you change that, there must be a very important reason. It seems to me that, in this case, this may not seem to be a very good reason, but if a party thinks that it exists, then it is necessary to act accordingly, perhaps to initiate a constitutional amendment. I am a little sorry that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which should be a guide on this issue, supported the draft. But that's what happened. That's why I'm asking you to stop this agony right here and reject this bill right here right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U165	Thank you. Kaja Kallas, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U166	It is a little strange, of course, to hear the coalition's representative give a solemn talk about constitutional compliance and how important it is, and how the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should not do anything that somehow interprets the Constitution. We come to the same draft Commission for the Financing of Political Parties, which goes very clearly against the Constitution. In fact, we have had quite a few cases in this composition, where the coalition of the Riigikogu considers the Constitution to be nothing. Now for the interpretation of the Constitution. The Constitution also has an executive edition. A commentary under paragraph 8 of this section states that, in fact, this 20 days of sitting is also too long in normal circumstances, it is too long to answer the question, given that the topicality of the subject is already over by the time of reply. That's what the executive edition says. There is no Supreme Court ruling on this section. As I said, this section has already been narrowed down by the Riigikogu and, unfortunately, narrowed down by the fact that it is not in fact that a member of the Riigikogu can submit enquiries, as the Constitution says, to the institutions listed in the Constitution, but that a member of the Riigikogu can make enquiries when the President of the Riigikogu forwards these enquiries. Well, it's still a much bigger constitutional constraint. Indeed, I believe that it is in the interest of all of us (as I have also repeatedly said here, that today [is] in the coalition, tomorrow in the opposition) so that this becomes clear. So if you vote out this draft now, I think we should look at the activities of this section and the Chairman of the Riigikogu in the sense that it has actually been unconstitutional. However, I call on all members of the Riigikogu not to vote on this bill. We can continue to deal with this draft between the first reading and the second reading, in the hope that we will not have an emergency situation again in the autumn, but just in case, preparing by the time it may occur, even in connection with the new wave of the same virus. In this case, however, we need quick answers, not only for the opposition, but for the Riigikogu as a whole. As I have said many times: Estonia is a parliamentary republic where Parliament must be able to exercise parliamentary control over the executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U167	Thank you. No more calls, negotiations are over. As the Estonian Centre Party Group has proposed to reject the draft at first reading, we will put it to the vote. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to reject the draft law 182 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the proposal, 42 against and 1 abstention. Bill 182 has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U168	The next item is the third reading of the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of other laws 130. This bill requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for approval. We will open negotiations and speak on behalf of the Reform Party Group, Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U169	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Money laundering is a nasty bureaucracy. Many of us have felt the unpleasantness of how annoying it can be, but in today's world we cannot be otherwise. This is a self-propelled train and Estonia cannot fall behind here. Many people think that this bureaucracy should be better controlled, but it cannot be done in such a way that we are different. It'll pay us back. But this bill itself is, I think, pretty good. On this point, I would like first of all to congratulate the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which worked together in a constructive way, interacted with experts and stakeholders and obtained a unanimous result. Including the combination of anti-money laundering forces and the creation of a separate agency, which is certainly not the idea of this government, but it seems to be happening now. But on the other hand, this bill is, of course, a monument to the attempt to turn money laundering into political money. About a year or two years ago, a strong campaign was launched when trying to spot political competitors. You led it, of course, by Jaanus Karilaid and the Legal Affairs Committee. A whole year was a campaign to prove that it was the fault of the former Minister of Finance and the former Prime Minister that a great deal of money was washed in Estonia. And imagine, no paraphrases of the law or any interesting facts were born from this year's hearing, of course, not studied. It was a pure bluff, which I lost interest in right after the election. I remember a week or two ago, when the Financial Inspectorate filed a report, the same hero walked out of the house when I came, because the subject was no longer topical for him. He would have heard what Kilvar Kessler said, how Estonia was then officially declared the European Union's best country in terms of regulations and how the Financial Supervision Authority proved to be the most innovative in Europe as of 2014, which also marks the end of my term of office. There was no one else in the region who would have been so far ahead of time to implement risk-based money laundering. In fact, the Financial Supervision Authority is not at all the main institution in the fight against money laundering, but it is a secondary area for it. Of course, there was also a political interest in barking under a tree as big as possible, but that tree was wrong. The one who barked at him was the current Minister of Finance. He has also declared that anti-money laundering is a priority for this government. What happened to it? It has become an infringement procedure. If we were ever the best in terms of regulation, officially recognised, then this year we have an infringement procedure for the European Union, because we have not transposed the directive. Thank God we're doing this now. But infringement proceedings are a fact. And all that political bluff that's turned up is gonna fail. I would like to remind you that this is exactly the subject where the Minister of Finance personally recommended suicide in public. Imagine, in my time, that's because of me. Such vileness could actually be absent from politics. What else? The same Committee on Legal Affairs held here an important OTRK on money laundering. It was nothing more than a political villain. There was nothing legal, there was nothing legal in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. It's probably one of the scariest protocols ever created here. And what else has been going on in the last year, apart from lack of interest? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U170	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U171	I have acknowledged that these forces, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance, are being merged into the administration of the Ministry of Finance, which has always been a stronger side of anti-money laundering. Now Estonia is fighting against international crime, as money laundering is, being ruled out at European level. This is again the shame of Estonia. For the purely ideological reason that, otherwise, power will go to Europe, there will also be war on anti-money laundering. You can join forces in Estonia, but you can't join forces internationally. Of course there are more details. After all, this bill introduced a change based on the wisdom of the nineties that we put some number and then determine which money must be controlled. Of course, this is not a modern view. Similarly, it is not a modern view when the Minister of Finance calls the bank managers together and reprimands them that they are overreacting. This goddamn law amendment in the end is more like an eighties level. In essence, this amendment sought to push the risks towards the banks, but in fact it was more of a fight against anti-money laundering than against it. Fortunately, all this has not come true in this draft. Once again, congratulations to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and personally to Comrade Mr. Koka, who led it, that we did not leave any foolishness in it to ourselves. Thank you, Mr. Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U172	Mr Karilaid, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I would like to ask for a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U173	Thank you to the manager. Don't go, Jurgen, don't go! Jürgen, wait! I see Jürgen's been in pain for the past six months, he's been in Parliament, on radio, on television, and he's claiming that he's not guilty of anything, that he's been the best finance minister in the world, that he made the best regulation in the world in the fight against money laundering, but somehow this money laundering incident happened in Danske. But he's not guilty, and he's actually in constant pain and suffering. Let's say, Jurgen, you're innocent!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U174	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. Let's finish the negotiations. Let's get to the vote. The commission has proposed a final vote of 130 on the draft. It's a saalikutsung. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on a draft 130, a draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending other laws. Please take a stand and vote. A final vote has been taken. There are 95 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U175	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Like the previous bill, this bill requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership. It seems that the political groups do not want to negotiate. We can go straight to the final vote. The Governing Commission's proposal is to conclude the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the vote? I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, in 187. Please take a stand and vote. There are 94 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U176	The following is the final vote of 184 final votes on the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic (Connecting the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate). Do the political groups want to negotiate? No, it's not. The commission has proposed a final vote of 184 on the draft. Can we go to the vote? This bill also requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu for approval. I am voting on bill 184. Please take a stand and vote. There are 63 members of the Riigikogu, against 6. Bill 184 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U177	The next draft is the Republic... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Attention, ladies and gentlemen, please. Draft 158 third reading of the Trade Unions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Labour Working Conditions Act posted to Estonia and the Act amending other laws. Would you like to negotiate? No, it's not. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 158. Can we go to the vote? I'm voting on bill 158. Please take a stand and vote. There are 92 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U178	The following is the third reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. We will open negotiations and ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Kalle Laanet Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U179	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to congratulate the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, i.e. the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the initiative to liquidate an old debt. This certainly gives legal certainty to the citizens of the Republic of Estonia that if a mistake has ever been made, the years may go by, but this mistake will be eliminated. That has been the case with this bill. Yes, it does not concern thousands of people, but 15 people in Estonia, who are specifically affected by this bill, will get legal certainty back. I thank all members of the Riigikogu for being prepared to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U180	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 161. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the vote? I will put to the final vote draft law 161 amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. There are 88 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U181	Next is the third reading of the Foreign Professional Qualifications Recognition Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Amendment to the Construction Code Act 179. Do the political groups want to negotiate? No, it's not. The commission has proposed a final vote of 179 on the draft. Can we go to the vote? I will put the 179th draft law to the final vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 91 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U182	Next is the third reading of the draft law amending the State Border Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. The political groups have no requests to speak, no negotiations are taking place. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 178 on the draft. Can we go to the vote? I am voting on the draft law amending the State Border Act 178 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 89 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U183	The next item is the third reading of the draft law 157 on amendments to the Road Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do the political groups want to negotiate? No, it's not. The commission has proposed a final vote of 157 on the draft. Can we go to the vote? I'm voting on bill 157. Please take a stand and vote. There are 87 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. Bill 157 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U184	We come to the next point, the third reading of the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and the Ordering of Arts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. It seems that there is no wish for negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote of 177 on the draft. Can we go to the vote? I'm voting on bill 177. Please take a stand and vote. There are 92 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U185	Next is the third reading of the draft law amending the Structural Support Act and the Foreign Communications Act for the period 2014 to 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? No, it's not. The commission has proposed a final vote of 129 on the draft. Can we go to the vote? I shall put draft 129 to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. 91 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there are no respondents and no abstentions. Bill 129 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U186	Third reading of Bill 145 of the Foreigners Act, Income Tax Act and Tax Administration Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. It seems that there is no wish for negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote of 145 on the draft. Can I put it to a vote? I'm voting on bill 145. Please take a stand and vote. There are 90 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U187	The following is the third reading of the draft law 194 amending the Alcohol Act, the Local Government Organisation Act, the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit and the Income Tax Act initiated by the Finance Committee. Do the political groups want to negotiate? It is. I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Maris Lauri Estonian Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U188	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, When this bill was initiated, it was a perfectly sensible step. When, during the crisis, a draft relating to the response to the crisis and related to an additional budget was dealt with, unfortunately, the issue of drawing up local government strategies was left out. This change certainly had to be introduced quickly and was done. At second reading, what happened was that there was an unexpected addition, which is not at all related to the subject of this draft. This is a bad procedure, a very bad approach. Similarly, if there really is the issue of how alcohol is placed in [shop], if there really are questions about how supervision has different perceptions of the matter, this initiative should have come as a separate draft and should have been preceded by discussions, discussions. But we got to a point where probably very many of us don't understand exactly what's going on because the wording is confusing. I dare not say that the wording now put together is very clear. The explanatory memorandum doesn't help. It's the law. If the law is not understood, there may be very interesting interpretations, as is said to have happened with the current wording of the draft. After all, the procedural separation between the different topics is due to very simple reasons: so that the issues can be discussed peacefully separately, so that the non-related issues do not interfere with each other's proceedings. That's what's happening right now. One thing must certainly be done, it is about drawing up strategies for local governments, and there was an amendment to the Alcohol Act, which is nothing to do with what is not as urgent as it should have been handled more calmly, and it would certainly have been necessary to understand what is actually being done. This is a bad procedure. However, the Riigikogu could be legitimate in its activities and based on good procedural practice. So I hope that all the local authorities will understand that, even though perhaps some in this Chamber will vote against this draft this time or not participate in the vote, they are not opposed to improving the drafting of local governments' strategies this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U189	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U190	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this law, in its original form, is well worth supporting, and if, without any discussion at second reading, the Commission's initiative would not have included an amendment to the alcohol law, this draft would certainly deserve to be supported. Not anymore, I'm afraid. I'll explain why. This provision, which has been included here, relates to certain procedural practices implemented by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority in order to ensure that the limits on the visibility of the display of alcohol apply from 1 June 2019. When these restrictions were considered very long in Parliament at the time, the question was how to save small shops from this burdensome restriction. Various square meters of restrictions were discussed to be 400 or 600 square meters, different numbers went through. The various forces represented in Parliament did not agree on this, and then the compromise was found to be such that restrictions on the visibility of alcohol do not need to be applied by the shop if this is not reasonably feasible in terms of size. Undoubtedly, this concept of reasonableness created a degree of legal uncertainty. I have now seen some supervisory acts, too, and the TTJA has not always interpreted this provision in the way that many colleagues in the Riigikogu did when this law was passed. Personally, I certainly support the fact that the legal order is as clear as possible. If it is possible to write something that gives a single understanding of how to implement it instead of'reasonably feasible', then I am in favour of it. This could have been done, in essence, through a peaceful procedure, and I think we can reach a consensus. But it wasn't wanted for some reason. It was intended to come up with this amendment, through the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which knows nothing about this area, because the discussions on this issue were held in other committees last time, and not to mention the supervisory body that has to implement it. The result is actually, I would say, an even bigger piece of shit than the kind of unclear regulation that was so far. In particular, if so far the principle of the legislator was clearly worded so that the smallest shops could escape it, then the legislative provision proposed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which also found approval in the large Chamber of Riigikogu, clearly states that no one will get an exception. Size doesn't matter. The only way to avoid the restrictions on the alcohol display is if you put the alcohol display behind the seller's back, into an area where the carrier can't get away. It is explicitly written in the black white law, [you will see] when you read this provision. Of course, the chairman of the commission, the Chef himself, was also startled by what he had put together, and now, between second and third readings, he has offered you a long explanation in the explanatory memorandum of the same text how he does not really mean what is written in black white in that sentence. I'm taking extra time now, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U191	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U192	When we read the explanatory memorandum, we will see how the Commission found it necessary to emphasise that the aim is not to change anything in the case of small shops. It is attempted to argue that an interpretation that emerges from the black white text of the law would be contrary to the Constitution. I don't know how, it's not explained. And there are other nice lines like that. In certain cases, an explanatory memorandum can certainly be important in order to clarify the will of the legislator in situations where the text of the law is not itself clear. However, supervisory bodies, like all other law enforcement and law subjects, must naturally be guided by the word of the law. The word of the law states directly that the alcohol must be placed in such a way as not to be noticeably visible from the rest of the sales hall, with the exception of the alcohol located behind the seller's back. Period. There's nothing said about the size of the shops. It is not possible to say anything in an explanatory memorandum but what the text of the law says. It is not possible to say [in law] to ban the death penalty and in the explanatory memorandum to say that, in fact, we thought that if there were still very gruesome crimes, the death penalty could still be applied. You can't do that, dear friends! Consequently, by protesting so much against the grotesque parliamentary procedure that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has carried out in this situation, passing over all practices, and also protesting against the adoption of [the] laws, for which Parliament does not have any understanding of how they will be implemented, the Social Democrats cannot support it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U193	Thank you. I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of Aivar Koka Isamaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U194	Ladies and gentlemen, Good manager! Demagogy is a beautiful thing, and speaking black white is even better. It's always nice to talk about the guy who spent three months trying to do everything he could to make it any different three years ago. You have to read the law and the explanatory statement in the law. I was asked at second reading how many of these precepts there were. In the press today, 22 precepts have been made for one of the three largest small shops in the last period. They asked what it had to do with the municipalities. At least four associations of county authorities have addressed the city and rural municipality associations on this issue. They asked how long it had been discussed. I saw that on 16 July last year, this letter came to me, at least, and it arrived at the Ministry and also at several committees, and the last debate was at the end of last month in the Committee on Economic Affairs. If, instead of saying one word, it is very clear that it is behind the counter with the cashier and that a person must not have access to where he can get to today, it must not be any more, then that makes sense. As the previous speaker said, when the law was made, it was very clear that it was possible to sell alcohol behind the counter in small shops, where it is not possible to do new walls, closets and do not know what to do, but at one point in the counties, officials treated the sentence differently. I am not blaming any authority today, but in fact the same hall in the previous composition voted on a draft [in favour] which was a bit incomprehensible and was an opportunity to interpret it one way or the other. Even now, I see that some interpret some of the sentences differently, which is why we put this explanation to the second and third readings. Taking one word off and adding three words does not mean, as some here interpret. We often talk about the problem of the detention of post offices in villages and so on. There are more than 400 small shops, and at least a third of them are such that it is the only store in the village. If anyone really wants these shops to be shut down, that's what he wants. Legal clarity is a point of the Constitution. It can't be that we're giving some kind of boundaries, and somebody might decide somewhere. Such decision-making [options] have been given here over time, and yes, and the result is always that one, the other or the third obligation is interpreted differently in different regions of Estonia. The impact of this law is very important for regions and regions. I don't see the problem they're trying to see. While some speakers say that this is somehow bad, these same people in the Commission supported this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U195	Evgeny Ossinovsky, I don't think your name was mentioned, but it was clearly recognizable who was meant to be. So please, line!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U196	Thank you! Indeed, it must have been difficult to imagine anyone other than me. Great honor, Mr. Chef, thank you! But I just want to point out that whether the withdrawal of one word and the addition of three words fundamentally alters the interpretation of the law depends very much on what those words are, not on how many of them are. This is one of the peculiarities of the rule of law, that there is a need for legal accuracy, not many empty words. In this sense, I fully understand what the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs wanted to do with this draft, but unfortunately what he wanted to do is not read out of this text of the law, but, on the contrary, from here it is possible to read out a completely different meaning to this provision. If, as a result, the Consumer Protection Board is going to ban the display of alcohol in small shops, the smallest shops, which are not behind the seller, the reason for this is the law voted here today. The fact that Aivar Kokk didn't want to do this doesn't matter at all because the provision of the law is precisely worded in this way. It is worth bearing responsibility for yourself, not spreading it on others. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U197	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote of 194 on the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put draft 194 to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. There are 55 members of the Riigikogu in favour, 7 against and no abstentions. Bill 194 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U198	Next is the third reading of the draft law amending the Rescue Act and the Weapons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations and ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Reform Party Group, Toomas Kivimägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It would be completely irresponsible to miss the opportunity to persuade once again the members of the coalition not to vote in favour of this draft. This is because the protection of sensitive personal data, including health data, is a very fundamental issue. A constitutional question, to which the President of the Republic also referred when he failed to announce this draft on the first occasion. It is true that these easings should be very carefully considered if we make concessions on this principle. Unfortunately, we must admit that, despite the improvements made in the draft, this is still not sufficiently justified today. I bring out five important arguments. Firstly, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (EU-GDPR) also applies during an emergency and emergency situation. These words have been spoken by Chancellor Ülle Madise. Hence the simple conclusion that the special situation does not provide for indulgence in the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation, nor is that sufficient justification. Moreover, the Chancellor of Justice has said that in the resolution of an emergency and in an emergency, the authorities carry out their duties under the law, the basis for the processing of personal data necessary for that purpose is laid down in the law. Perhaps there is no reason or need to open this Pandora box. Let us consider this, please. Secondly, no law provides for such liberal access to sensitive health data as this draft law is intended to provide. It's just a phone call. However, there is a reference in the draft law that the grounds for identifying the person who made the request are laid down by the Minister by means of a decree. Would it not be natural for Members of Parliament, before they press either the green or the red button, to know how this very important risk has been grounded? Today, none of us know how and how it is planned to identify the person who calls the information line 1247. We do not know that, but we could know that before we decide whether or not to vote in favour of this draft. Thirdly, it is very problematic for this very wide circle of authorities to decide on access to sensitive health data. They are much appreciated or criticised by the Health Board, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board and the Defence Police Department. They all have the right to decide whether to grant access to information about victims when they have entered the hospital, for example. At the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I suggested that it would not be conceivable and logical for the Ministry of Social Affairs, who has been invited, among other things, to monitor the reliability of the health information system, to coordinate it or even have veto rights if one of these four institutions wishes to start processing these sensitive personal data. To my great surprise, the same proposal was actually made to the Ministry of Social Affairs, for a completely unknown reason, the Ministry of Social Affairs refused. Obviously, if the Ministry of Social Affairs had agreed to this coordination or even veto right, then these risks would certainly have been significantly mitigated. Today, once again, the decision of the Director General of the Health Board is enough and this access is open. Do we really want such a liberal approach to the principle and principle of the Constitution, which should actually protect our personal sensitive personal and health data? Fourthly, it is very important that this law does not work from the first day it enters into force. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U200	I have said this many times so that it would only make sense if the data about one person or another entering the hospital reached the health information system, if not minutes, at least hours. At present, as a general rule, they arrive when the patient is discharged from the hospital and an epidemic is being prepared. There is another [option] that is still being implemented (to be precise): if someone gets hospitalised, hospitals will have to draw up a notice of initiation of inpatient treatment. However, this communication must also be drawn up within five days, which means that in reality we will adopt a law that does not work. We artificially create a situation where people call and they don't get information. And we will raise our hand by this bill! Fifthly, we are obviously also taking the risk that the President of the Republic will be forced to dismiss this law for a second time, because there is still a contradiction with the Constitution. Do we have enough wisdom, even for the members of the coalition, not to step on the same rag twice? I hope that [we are not stepping] will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U201	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U202	The representatives of the political groups have no further wish for negotiations. So let's get to the vote. We have the commission's proposal for a final vote on the draft 128. Please take a stand and vote. [[Voices from the floor.]] What? Do you want to abort? I'll call first. We are interrupting this vote now. The manager apologizes for getting ahead of himself. But now, in any case, I will put to the final vote the draft law on the rescue and amendment of the arms law initiated by the Government of the Republic 128. Please take a stand and vote. 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of adopting the draft, against 42. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U203	The next item is No 16: The Government of the Republic initiated... [[In the diner.]] May I have your attention, please? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The 16th item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Construction Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish to make speeches? I don't see a wish, so let's consider the negotiations to be over. Can I put it to the final vote now? A positive humming is my guide. So, I will put to the final vote draft law 173 on the amendment of the building code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 90 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, there was no one against, there were no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U204	Next item, No 17, Third reading of draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to the Tax Administration Act. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 203. I'll put it to a vote. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, against 13. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U205	The next item is the third reading of Bill 204 of Amendment to the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U206	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft does not fulfil the objective which it is claimed to have to help the people of Ida-Virumaa. No, it's not helping. It's hurting people in Ida-Viru County. Very simply: it is bad that the environment in Ida-Virumaa is being degraded. The Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu asked for an opinion on this draft from the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu, which gave a completely negative opinion on this draft, indicating that the money from environmental charges could actually be used to make the oil shale sector more environmentally friendly and indicating that the crisis did not come on 1 January, i.e. it is not a crisis measure, it is not a crisis measure. It will apply retroactively. This has been made possible by the fact that oil shale ash and fly ash are said to be less harmful to the environment, they are about as harmful to the environment, as is the substance that is predominantly limestone in Ida-Viru County. I know most of you have not been to Ida-Virumaa, at least not thoroughly, and you certainly have not lived there. You know, limestone isn't the same as ash. It really isn't. Think about it a little bit, there's no way. Limestone is relatively easy to do, no ash. If environmental charges are reduced, the incentive to do something about this ash will be further reduced. If there really was a desire to help the people of Ida-Virumaa, then other measures should be used, specific labour market measures: increasing support for people who remain unemployed through retraining; finding opportunities for companies to develop and grow; more entrepreneurs from other parts of Estonia; and more entrepreneurial people. However, as I said in the previous reading, this will be hampered by a number of factors, including political corruption on the ground. Moreover, when we talk about the environment, the environment is not just nature; the environment is also important to people. Ash is very bad for human health. Among the people of Ida-Viru County, lung-related diseases are significantly more common than in other parts of Estonia. It is also directly linked to how far people live or work from these polluters. And now, under the name of helping Ida-Virumaa, the coalition really wants to do harm to people on the ground, in terms of the environment, their health, and at all. I call on you not to vote in favour of this bill, but to come up with real measures and actions that would help the people of Ida-Viru County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U207	The representatives of the political groups have no further wish to speak. Let's get this call started, too, just in case. Let's put it to a vote. Does everyone agree? Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 204. Please take a stand and vote. There were 51 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this draft, against 38. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U208	The next item is the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Providing a state guarantee under Article 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 establishing a European Facility for Temporary Support to alleviate unemployment risk in emergency situations resulting from the outbreak of COVID-19'. The rapporteur is Mr Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U209	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the Riigikogu's decision to issue a state guarantee on the basis of Article 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 establishing temporary support for the reduction of unemployment risk provided by the emergency outbreak of COVID-19, in preparation for a second reading. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees of the Riigikogu submitted no amendments to the draft by the deadline of 16 June. Linguistic and regulatory changes have been introduced in the draft. The Finance Committee proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including on 17 June, i.e. today. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading and to conclude the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U210	Questions. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U211	Thank you, good waitress. Following the position taken by the Members of the European Commission, the TERA scheme is seen in many ways as a preparation for the huge European Union loan scheme that has been talked about. Of course, we know all the various doubts that have arisen about this loan scheme, that it could be a step towards the continued federalisation of the European Union, or that consistency with the Treaties has been questioned. How are these same risks now mitigated in this TERA scheme?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U212	Thank you. There is no comparison between one of these two measures. One is still the possibility of granting a loan and guaranteeing that loan; the other is also easy to obtain support. There's still a guarantee from the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U213	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U214	Thank you. That's what turns me on. The party that has said this has called out all kinds of European solidarity, and this concrete measure is at the top of solidarity in that we do not really need a loan, but we provide guarantees for other loans. How did you get your partners to approve?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U215	Thank you, Jurgen! That's a good question. I guess you helped. All previous finance ministers have worked to make the Riigikogu understand that if there is a large family in the European Union, it is necessary to support family members, or other countries, if necessary. There is one very important point in this law: all countries guarantee, according to the percentage of their contributions, and we do not have to guarantee someone else's loan, but we still guarantee our own borrowing. The money is not paid on it, it is paid on the amount of the European Union contribution, the percentage of the population has been calculated and this number has come from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U216	Jürgen Ligi, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U217	Thank you. I'm gonna check to see if you know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U218	Maybe I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U219	This guarantee is not dependent on borrowing, it is a problem, it is a solidarity guarantee. For the entire National Conservative elite to understand: it is a solidarity guarantee in a situation where our borrowing needs are likely to be one of the smallest. Please tell me if I'm right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U220	You're right, Jurgen. If I made a mistake, I'm sorry! Yes, our guarantee amount depends on the GDP and population of our country, but it cannot be higher than the EUR 48716500 written here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U221	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish to participate in the negotiations. We're done negotiating. Let us examine amendments that do not exist. We have the commission's proposal for a final vote on the 210 draft, and the condition of this final vote is that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required to adopt the draft as a decision. I'm gonna call everyone in now. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Providing a state guarantee under Article 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 establishing temporary support to alleviate unemployment risk in emergency situations resulting from the outbreak of the COVID-19 outbreak' 210. A majority of the composition is necessary for the approval of the draft. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, no one opposed, no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U222	Now we have on the agenda a report by the Chancellor of Justice on 'The rule of law in emergency'. Please waitress Chancellor Ülle Madise.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U223	Dear Riigikogu! I would like to thank both the coalition and the opposition groups for their critical and thorough approach to the issue of emergency situations and, of course, also the Chancellor of Justice for asking for a preliminary overview of this situation. Paragraph 139 (2) of the Constitution provides the basis for such an extraordinary report. I would also like to thank the Riigikogu for giving the floor! I know very well how busy it is for the Riigikogu on the eve of the Midsummer Day. I usually start with what went well. Well, what I think went well is that at least in that wave, the worst part was gone. The hope that, when the difficult moment is here, Estonia will be mobilized was confirmed. The rest period and the role-sharing cost nothing at all in this situation. Those who know and know did and decided, both in the public and in the private sector. And I am particularly pleased that it was confirmed that without a strong front line, neither of them will be. However, it turned out that there was no systematic division of work and responsibility acquired. The fact that it went as well as I dared to appreciate is that those who took responsibility made a heroic effort at the expense of themselves and their families. At the same time, many institutions saw the emergence of people whose abilities, and perhaps leadership, had so far been overlooked. Yet, they were the ones who showed the best quality of work and were responsible. Sadly, others who did not receive any answers for days, who were more likely to cause noise and confusion, also came out. I very much hope that the leaders paid close attention to how their people worked and treated the situation. From a very good point of view, the Defence Forces and the Defence League showed themselves more precisely; they did not show themselves but did. A lot of the public doesn't know about me. The reason is also to thank you, honourable Riigikogu, for helping to fill gaps in the legal system so quickly. One excellent example comes from April 8th when you unanimously passed the amendments to the law, with a consensus over the coalition and opposition borders, with the support of which, among other things, the parents of children with special educational needs at home for about a month without money were entitled to some kind of money. On the same day, the President of the Republic announced this law, immediately published in the Official Journal of the State, immediately entered into force and immediately took action. Similarly, standards were born without which there could have been no departure from the emergency by respecting fundamental rights. We also very much welcome the fact that a number of rules restricting fundamental rights were also voted out of the so-called cluster bill in this Chamber and some were clarified. This is another very good proof of objections to those who call the Riigikogu what kind of temple from time to time. But what is the problem, and what I came to you about is that I am not sure that such a general public and interagency effort would be conceivable again in the next possible emergency, and this is certainly not necessary in a normal, reasonable country. Nor is it certain that the people will be ready to forgive once again the mistakes of speed and to fill the gaps in national leadership with their own common sense, goodwill, and sacrifice. That is why it would be very good if you, honourable members of the representative of the people, would also consider taking the lead in correcting the weaknesses that have emerged in the legal order. I know that the same work is planned by the Government of the Republic, the State Chancellery, but the Riigikogu also plays a very important role here. And as I have always pointed out in all the performances, I think there is no point in looking for those responsible; it is empty energy consumption and, to a large extent, unfair. Firstly, the biggest problem is the same resolution capacity. A comprehensive view, from the blackout of one region and the eradication of a landscape fire, epidemic or natural disaster to a war situation, should be a whole picture, as you know, but unfortunately it is not. The thing is, all kinds of crises can occur at once, in a row. The existence of a state in the event of an epidemic, natural disaster, blackout or other emergency may also constitute a basis for security threats. So the whole picture should be complete. The same national defence law that is in the process here and the possible amendments to the Emergency Act provide a very good platform for creating such a comprehensive view. However, I am not very happy to talk about the law as such, because the law is not about itself. Both the law and the money are instruments above all. If I may ask, it may be reasonable to move in such a way that it is first logical to think of what needs to be done in this whole big picture to resolve these crises, and only then will the standards be formulated. Of course, it would be a good thing to leave aside the notion of law as a possible insane reasoning. In fact, these standards could be written in a simple and concise, clear and beautiful Estonian language. It's possible. What kind of standards do you need here anyway? Again, the answer makes perfect sense. First, the law must clearly state in Estonian who can restrict the rights and freedoms of persons and impose obligations on them, secondly, what is the division of work between the state and local government in resolving crises, and only thirdly can it be reasonable to regulate to a certain extent who acts within the state or who controls it. Part of this work is in the law, part of the regulation and part should be in the plans to resolve the crisis. Secondly, unfortunately, old talk, or the damage caused to Estonia by replacement activities. This is no longer abstract anxiety, but unfortunately it was confirmed that the damage had been done. So, years have gone by to rewrite the laws under codification, revision and everything else, but what is first-needed is to think about solutions to the problems encountered in life and bring you here, is not done. You know the answers, I know the answers. Already in my first year of office, I asked the ministries for answers to a vital problem that a number of people suffered. It was promised that the next year would start to think about the intention of being developed and then, in a few years' time, the whole text will come up. At the moment, there is no mention of the intention to develop, no matter how much it makes sense at all. Why are these clear and specific laws needed? But still because it is not right to assume that, for example, health officials are breaking through their hard work piles, three crazy laws in one hand and a whole bunch of regulations in the other. They, like police officers, veterinary officials and many others, are trained to do content work on the front line, not argue with ministries about the law. And here's a specific suggestion, if you don't mind: the Riigikogu has the right to simply reject unnecessary laws and force confusing laws to be written. The Riigikogu also has the right to initiate and adopt drafts and amendments itself. To my great surprise, this right is also sometimes called into question. Three. Of course, when crisis resolution procedures are designed and recorded in the necessary part of the law, the exercises should try out and then carry out what they have learned. From the perspective of the Chancellor of Justice, it does not seem to be the case that much is learned outside national defence, but what is not remembered. Perhaps such an attitude should be replaced by a "civil" exercise following a specific action plan and, inter alia, correcting errors, including in the legal order. Figuratively speaking, the Health Board and many other agencies should have a table in front of them, stating exactly what they are doing and who is doing in the event of one or another crisis, what the legal basis is and what the legal form is. The duty of the official shall be solely to establish that this is the event. For example, if we have an infectious disease coming across the border, we will go to the border, make a mandatory injunction for the person with the signs of infection or his family, these people will stay at home and we will be able to tell them what happens to their income and other obligations. I don't have that right now, but I really need it. The very important topic is the same quarantine, isolation. After these rapid and necessary legislative changes, however, the issue is still unsolved. In particular, we have a quarantine for the purposes of the State Border Act, we have a quarantine for the prevention and control of communicable diseases in the sense of the Act, and in addition, the law states a restriction on movement. The Health Insurance Act states that in the case of quarantine, a person receives sickness benefit for up to seven days, up to 70% of his salary. In the case of a movement restriction, if you also cannot go to work, this benefit shall not be paid. Both quarantine and movement restrictions last 14 days. There are people among us whose wages are not such as to have sufficient reserves for quarantine, just in case. Equally important is the question of how to stop the planned treatment in private medicine. This was one of the most obvious mistakes in the last crisis. A letter was issued which in fact lacked any legal power. Unfortunately, rumors spread, including in private practice, that it must still have some sort of legal power. It's getting worse. Whole regions will be closed on the basis of an emergency section of the Act, which says that in an emergency, restrictions may be imposed as necessary. Period. Even if no infected person has been registered for a long time in the area where a person wants to go to get to his or her property or loved ones, for example, they have not existed. But why would that happen? Why did § 31 (3) of the Emergency Act so eagerly apply, whether in the case of restrictions on demonstrations or elsewhere? But because there was nothing else left. This work was unfinished, public pressure and ignorance were enormous. I do not justify these acts, but at the same time I call for justice, because in this state, the officials who wrote these documents did not have much left. But next time, I guess that's definitely not the way to do it. Indeed, the risk of damages is rightly guaranteed here. We still do not know whether these claims for compensation are coming and how successful they are, but they can be successful. And it is not so much the fact that taxpayers' money has to compensate someone for their losses, but it is because these losses were even incurred, even though they could be prevented. Fourthly, the goodness and reliability of the work of the agencies-inspections. It seems to me that, at times, the Health Board was unjustly condemned because it was precisely in a situation where, according to the general public's understanding, a disease with a high degree of infectiveness [problem] had to be resolved, which is spreading rapidly and extensively or whose course is severe or life-threatening. Journalists read in the law that quarantine should be applied. It did not occur to anyone that the same COVID-19, which basically shut down society's life in many parts of us and elsewhere, is not a particularly dangerous infectious disease; it is simply one of the diseases for which the control, true, is even more severe measures than the control of a particularly dangerous infectious disease. I am not quite sure that this emergency solution, which was found that we now have a new, dangerous infectious disease, where all measures may be taken, including measures to control a particularly dangerous infectious disease, is hidden in a single section, which even some officials did not find, I attended the meeting of the appropriate social committee, which would be the best. Maybe it's not the best. That, too, should be absolutely clear. I also come back to an old story. Many occupations, whose keepers meet people on the front line and whose welfare depends on the well-being and attitude of our people to the Republic of Estonia, are under-built. There is too little pay and too bad conditions in addition to the legal confusion that sends their work. Whether it is the Environmental Board, the Veterinary and Food Board, the same Health Board or the Data Protection Inspectorate, they all have enormously weighty tasks, but there is little people and pay money to fill them. So maybe the Riigikogu should also consider that some of the money will be transferred to the front line at higher levels of the administrative hierarchy. Finally, the central constitutional issue. Indeed, the question of freedom and responsibility, that is, how much people's own wisdom is trusted to use their own freedoms responsibly in a crisis situation and to what extent rigid restrictions are needed. The Government and Prime Minister of the Republic were under constant pressure to close with a harsh hand all markets, barbershops and restaurants, stop all public transport, ban movement and start to monitor all people in real time. There was even unfair criticism of the sensible and balanced solutions that eventually turned out in this setting. When things were not closed and limited in the same way, it was even said that the bolder and the more inventive received an advantage. That is what I was thinking of sending to the speaker the Preamble of the Constitution and a small article on the foundations of a market economy. Honourable Riigikogu, it is the respect for freedom that the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia directs. It is of central value, then comes justice and then comes standards. So my answer is this: we should not assume that our people are stupid and must be protected from themselves with a hard hand at all costs. There's no way to be sure there's no infection at a concert with 499 people, and the Government of the Republic guarantees it. Still, people need to be told that fear is not a police officer and punishment, but an infection is needed. You gotta think with your head. These were the first conclusions. We hope to give you a thorough report in the autumn on the numerous referrals to the Chancellor of Justice, with references and views. I hope, then, not to deal with this issue much anymore, because there have also been many other important things in Estonia's life in the last year of the review, which would deserve Parliament's attention. But indeed, I very much hope that in the coming months enough tension and the ensuing desire to correct these things will remain immediately, because later on, probably by quoting the good old Juhan Liv's story 'Pepsi pääl', I just counted it, and it is worth reading it in its entirety, it illustrates very graphicly what we have come through here, says: 'Jak, [--] feet in the north! 'and a small, pathetic candlestick instead of a chandelier arrives in the temple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U224	Thank you very much, Chancellor. Every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask one question; representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U225	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Can you tell us what it is that we are prepared to give up our freedoms and rights in many ways in these times of crisis without, in a sense, really understanding it and being able to really orient ourselves in these paragraphs and attitudes? Is it possible in the future that governments will actually be quick to take advantage of it on the basis of such a psychological state, and what could provide protection against it? I have a further question. You mentioned that people should be able and able to react and act on their own without being shown exactly by the police. That 2+2 rule is still valid today, isn't it? But is it very reasonable for the legislator to keep this valid, based on a small visual observation in society as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U226	Thank you very much. These studies, the results of which I have seen, really showed at first that people were willing to give up their freedoms and rights to a large extent, but this readiness was becoming less and less. And at least at the moment, I do not have the impression that anyone has the intention of introducing very hard-handed leadership for a long time, but really, your question is very correct. It depends on what our people want. With regard to the 2+2 rule and many other different rules, it seems to me that in some cases only seemingly working measures to prevent infection, which are used in Estonia and elsewhere, have also been given a psychological explanation that people are offered the opportunity to feel that they have done something to protect themselves and others. There is nothing to be said in secrecy here, but it is clear that the rule of 2 + 2 was formulated from the beginning in a sensible way, simply as one example of how to fear infection, not punishment. In fact, at the end there was a remark that if this can be reasonably ensured.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U227	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U228	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your good presentation. I enjoyed listening to your thoughts and, above all, I liked that the solution to the crisis should be comprehensive and, at the same time, take into account the details. It is important that in this comprehensive solution, the rights and freedoms of individuals are violated minimally. One important example of this was the obligation to wear a face mask, but the effect it has on people with hearing impairments was that because they read the text on the mouth, they were immediately cut out, in an entirely unexpected situation for themselves. Since I have no more time to talk, I ask: should I actually have thought about such details and found a solution to them in advance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U229	Thank you very much. That's right. In this imaginary table, which hopefully in a few months will no longer be imaginary, but actually exist, these measures should be reasonably unwritten with possible negative side effects. As far as the masking duty is concerned in particular, I am proud to admit that our administration played a pretty important role in not imposing it. The point is that it cannot be legally established in the Republic of Estonia, in my opinion, unless it is clearly shown, based on knowledge of material science, virology and human behavior, that it really is beneficial and that it is worth more than damage. We also identified people with hearing impairments, and there were concerns about people with breathing difficulties. In addition, we were quite active in matters of obstetrics, for even deaf birthers, for example, had to wear a mask and face people who were wearing a mask. This certainly was not in line with today's international best practice, although the fear and effort of doctors to do something was naturally understandable. Unfortunately, the kind of conference where a scientific answer to the question of how much the usual surgical mask really would be useful was not, or could not, participate. The fact is, if you wear the mask correctly, wearing FFP2 and FFP3 levels and analogue masks or respirators will really help both the wearer and others. But here, too, we considered it important that everyone should think for themselves how they would not be infected and infect others. It is precisely the fact that people in society perceive things differently and that needs vary that must be taken into account when imposing all kinds of obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U230	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U231	Thank you, President of the sitting. Your Honor, Chancellor! Thank you for your presentation. It's always a pleasure to listen to you. You mentioned that in an emergency, the people of Estonia behaved very sensibly. I'll admit it, I could see it all. But how many complaints did people complain to you at the time, and what kind of complaints were they? Or is it now, after the emergency, that people have started to turn to you much more actively and have come back with complaints or have given feedback, pointing out concerns? If it's not a secret, would you open it? And since I still have time, I will ask you this, too, that you have this kind of feedback on other countries as well. What were the concerns of the people there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U232	Thank you very much. Complaints came from all areas of life and there were no restrictions on which no one would have complained. It is very good that our people are so active, because many bottlenecks emerged as a result of this avalanche of complaints, and I am pleased that in many cases the restrictions were also amended and improved as necessary. It may take a long time to give examples, but one of the last cases was that of quarantine when crossing a state border. At times, for example, a citizen of the Republic of Estonia would have been treated much worse than a Latvian citizen when coming from Latvia, and this is completely unacceptable. Of course, no one wanted anything bad, just went like that, and they fixed it quickly. But there really was a lot of these things. From the experience of other countries. Indeed, we had a virtual meeting with all our European colleagues, where experience was shared. To be honest, life seems to be quite the same everywhere, and sometimes we realized where some people's questions came from. For example, I wondered about the question of a family father that he did not want the child to eat warm school food or a pack of school food that was later distributed but that he wanted money. We wondered where such a question might come from, and then my Basque colleague explained that they were given money. So you see, people are connected and resourceful. In any case, all the views that could be published have been published on the website and by autumn we will try to make you one decent concentrate of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U233	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I would like to ask you about the second point, which is the damage caused by replacement activities. As you very well know, for five months here in the Riigikogu, we have been dealing with the amendment to the law on psychiatric assistance proposed by the Social Affairs Committee under the leadership of a good colleague, Helmen Hunt, which you proposed to the Ministry at the end of last year. It has taken five months and we have been able to pass the first reading of this bill. The second reading is hindered because one political force opposes it. When you look at the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, how do you feel about a situation where we people with elected mandates cannot express their position by voting in the big hall, because this bill simply does not reach the big hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U235	Thank you for the question and thank you for initiating this draft. I would also like to thank you for the fact that this debate has now finally taken place and that it has also taken on quite a large scale in the public. It is not appropriate or possible for me, as a state official, to intervene in the regime of the Riigikogu. But once again, if you try to see something good about it, it's one of the most profound debates in the world and, among other things, an argument about who the child is and what his rights are.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U236	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U237	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your presentation. My question concerns dealing with health records. The functioning of Estonian digital services is largely based on trust and, in turn, based on the knowledge that our data is well stored and protected, privacy is guaranteed and only a person can decide who has the right to access its data and who does not have that right. Now, in an emergency, these boundaries tended to blur quite dangerously at times. Yesterday, the Riigikogu spoke of an example of how the person who gave the positive corona test was tried to report his test results by telephone. Since a person could not answer the phone, a call was made to his or her husband, but since the husband could not answer, the adult person's mother was called and the parent, the adult person's parent, was informed of the test results. This is just one example. There has also been talk about how health data, analytical results have been moved simply by e-mail in the tables and not safely protected. If we break that trust, we will destroy a large part of our digital state. My question is whether it is already possible to assess the handling of health data in emergency situations. How do you feel that the emergency situation has now returned to a situation where data has been stored and protected and privacy guaranteed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U238	Thank you very much. Your question, which actually reached us earlier, is the answer that has now been drafted and submitted to me for signature. I haven't been able to work this through in detail yet, but we had it in the department. So much was verified that these data were initially moved in encrypted form. Whether this will save you from the dangers is not clear to me at the moment. But the question is very good, right and multifaceted, because on the one hand there was enormous pressure to find out who was infected and where they lived. This occurred in local communities. We know that there were unfortunately talking family doctors there. Getting this kind of data out, followed by the persecution of a person and his loved ones, I would say, may eventually lead to the cover-up of the disease. Well, then we really couldn't brake society any more without taking very cruel measures. Fortunately, in this case, the wider data leakage was prevented. Unfortunately, individual cases like the one you described have reached us as well. I very much hope that people will be able to make it clear that this is an obvious violation of laws, and also of the European Union's general regulation on data protection, and that is absolutely unacceptable, but this will be done. The question is very good, and if you will allow us, we will answer it in public.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U239	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U240	Good manager! Good Chancellor of Justice! Thank you for a very constructive and up-to-date presentation. I think that for every crisis, the sooner the conclusions are drawn at the end, the more recent memory is, and the better conclusions can be drawn. I have two questions for you. The first is about drawing conclusions. What is your assessment of how much we can learn from this crisis, not from the exercise, but from the real crisis? Is there a willingness to do so in ministries, in state offices, or could it be that there was a crisis, but we didn't learn anything about it? My second question is on freedom and responsibility. Do you think that the involvement of the Riigikogu in imposing restrictions on these fundamental freedoms was optimal or could it have been smaller or greater?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U241	Thank you very much. It is precisely because there is no certainty that we will enter the next possible wave or one of the next crises much better than the past, I have come here with your kind invitation and with the permission of the board, the Honourable People's Representation. There are signs of improvement, even in the area of joint stockpiling, and in the fact that the laws have now been amended, unfortunately, in a hurry. Can the intention of the matter be considered systematically and then learned? I very much hope so, but I think that there is also a real need here for all the members of the Riigikogu to keep the pressure and constant hand on the pulse, because new things will come together and if the disease does not return to this extent, this great concern will probably go away from other concerns. I'm afraid that's gonna happen. Now about the involvement of the Riigikogu. I have all the acts and laws that contain these restrictions and their amendments, even the relevant questions and answers to Question Time, as well as the statements made by ministers here, very much printed out and highlighted the important points. These materials give the impression that from the start of the emergency situation, very serious questions were asked and often constructive answers were also received. And although this was not said, it was often these questions and criticisms that eventually brought about changes. Would a comprehensive resolution plan and corresponding drafts have had to be submitted to the Riigikogu earlier? Of course, the answer is yes. Now that the situation was as it was, could there have been more or better to be done? I think you know that better than I do. The fact is also that I saw it side by side, that the Government of the Republic, the Secretary of State and the State Chancellery under his command and the officials of the ministries who worked were heavily burdened.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U242	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U243	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Your Honor, Chancellor! The COVID-19 pandemic conquered the world and, above all, conquered the world's news channels. It was possible to compare all this practice, which involved reducing the risk of infection, solving the crisis, etc., and technological progress gave rise to the idea that real-time monitoring of people is one method of reducing and preventing infection. Would you mind commenting on this process? After all, some countries used it. What could be its future? I just remembered one of the Hollywood series 'Person of Interest' years ago, and the situation just described was a bit of a real follow-up to this movie. Please comment on whether this is the future!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U244	Thank you very much. I hope this isn't the future. The European Union's General Data Protection Regulation does not allow such a thing, and our authorities are also trying to resist chipping, muzzles and deprivation of liberty. So I believe that, together with the honourable Riigikogu, this kind of development can be prevented. In view of the human psyche, the resulting danger is greater than it seems at first sight.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U245	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U246	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I guess this crisis also tested our social system and apparently highlighted and reminded many of its weaknesses. One of the slogans or keywords of this crisis was that 'Stay at home! ', but we have a number of people in Estonia for whom it is difficult to stay at home. For example, we have thousands of people to whom a local authority should legally provide a living space for certain socio-economic reasons, but we know that there are thousands of people who have been found to have, yes, these socio-economic reasons, but nevertheless they wait for years in the order of the recipients of the dwelling, and in fact they do not have this living space. This means that during the current crisis, many generations often lived together in rather narrow conditions, and older people were unable to isolate themselves from young people or vice versa, young people from the elderly. Is there anything else we can do to make this problem a solution to the next crisis like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U247	How much can be done by the Riigikogu, I cannot answer at the moment. If I figure it out, I'd love to share the result with you. But the local elections are coming soon, and if the participants in these elections were to consider both these residential problems and, in fact, the situation of nursing homes, the remuneration of nursing homes, the treatment of their relatives, for which the Chancellor of Justice has had a lot of complaints, not only during the emergency situation, but also outside it, the one that came today, which is so tragic that he does not want to recount, would be a pleasure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U248	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U249	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! My question was, in fact, about freedom and responsibility, as well as that our citizens almost themselves were willing to abandon very many of their freedoms. You've talked about this in your performances. But since this has already been discussed here, it is only a matter of force to wish that if the Government of the Republic now really prepares a perfect crisis plan, your observations and advice will be taken into account. I have two questions. There's still a 2+2 rule today, but it doesn't have to be enforced. And yet, as decent people, it's kind of weird to be. What do you think, maybe we could replace it with another friendly suggestion to keep our distance? Secondly, it was very sad to be here in the Riigikogu at the beginning of the emergency situation, but also later, because the opposition's wish to be involved was not taken into account. It was kind of very burdensome and sad. What's your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U250	Thank you! On the second question, however, I cannot afford any useful assessments for you, because it is a question of the Riigikogu's self-regulation and political culture. There are oppositions, sometimes coalitions. And as such a general truth, the only thing that can be said in abstract terms is do to another what you want to be done to you and don't do what you don't want to be done to you. This 2 plus 2, well, here we really have to ask the members of the Government of the Republic why he's in force. One reason may be that scientists recommend it precisely as such a psychological and soft pressure measure and that it is not so absolute. From a legal point of view, it is, of course, the case that, if there are rules that are not met on a massive basis and which may not be met, it does not benefit the rights consciousness and the law-awareness. But I believe that today's debate here is public and maybe makes a difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U251	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U252	Thank you. Madam Chancellor! I'm not a lawyer, I'm a simple man. I heard the Chancellor of Justice on TV say the Prime Minister did very well. As a citizen, I experienced complete chaos of leadership since the state of emergency was announced, it was said that even one dead person was too many, and how the crisis was announced, when no data were available, there were no restrictions yet. I saw different ministers saying different things about how once masks were banned, then they promised again how schools were opened and not opened, how the special situation was extended by two ministers and so on. I did feel like a citizen, that I was some kind of toy. Is there some kind of legal explanation for this, or is there some kind of trick in saying that the Prime Minister, the head of emergency, did well, only others couldn't?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U253	I don't remember the Chancellor of Justice saying that, but I can tell you that I'm trying to be fair. And that is what I have said: if you put yourself in these circumstances, in this state of public pressure, in this government, in a situation where there has been no work in the ministry at the right time, in place of a prime minister or another minister, it is fair to reflect on whether you would have done better. Even if it seems that some things might have been done differently, unfortunately, you never know whether or not they would have succeeded. So, of course, you have to be reasonably critical, of course, communication in the ideal world would have been better coordinated, noise and the resulting concern in society would have been much less. Whether it was possible for the Prime Minister to achieve this, whether he was able to act more forcefully as a politician, is not an issue that I would appreciate. I can assess how these restrictions eventually turned out in the situation that was, and what was requested, and which I would say, at the end of the day, was not done under the leadership of the Prime Minister, the Minister for Social Affairs and a few other ministers. And compared to what could have happened, what happened is quite polite.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U254	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U255	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Chancellor of Justice! I am afraid that, as happens in the economy, all the time being prepared for the previous crisis, other crises are now happening. Exactly the same. In order to avoid the phenomenon of preparing only for the previous crisis, a system designed to manage the crisis should, on the one hand, be comprehensive, as you said, but it should also be sufficiently general and have a high degree of flexibility. Now, when I look at this almost past health crisis, we could see that the fears of the people receded, but the flexibility of the decisions did not come out of it. Time and again, we saw that people were a little ahead of the decisions, and in some cases this remained a hindrance, for example, to the closure of regions in the case of islands. There are also questions about the closure of several counties where there were no sick people, or about the very strong closure of schools where there were no failures. How do you feel about such a reaction or being left behind?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U256	Thank you, that's a very correct question. If there had been an appropriate legal base, which I have spoken about here and some of which have now emerged in the short term, and if the agencies and local authorities had learned how to solve the crisis in such a way that they could have reacted forcefully and effectively where they really needed to react, then probably these national and, at times, certainly for some people, fewer unjustified restrictions could have been imposed. But in this case, we were in a situation where, figuratively speaking, this is a very poor comparison, but it was not possible to carry out, in some respects, appropriate precision shots, i.e. specific individual acts, because there was no agreement on how to implement together the law of law and order, the Law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases, the Emergency Act and the regulations issued on the basis of them. Finally, the Riigikogu had to intervene and do this work quickly. And then you had to pick up a shotgun and, figuratively speaking, shoot a flock of birds. The ones who were supposed to get the shot, as well as the ones who weren't supposed to. I think that reflection on the subject of this general arrangement will certainly be ahead of both lawyers and crisis managers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U257	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U258	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I'd like to continue a little bit on the same subject that the last two questions were about. This is, in fact, a matter of finding a balance between the political level and the experts, and it is the same emergency law that we have as it is. The emergency law is designed by nature to solve the crisis by the agency with the highest level of competence. Now, this crisis and the earlier ones have shown that everything will eventually be concentrated somewhere in Stenbock's house. In the light of your experience, tell me what your assessment of whether, in the case of such crises, this 'crisis management' should be political or, rather, based on the level of experts and authorities? And secondly, looking at the case of Saaremaa, for example, where the Rescue Board eventually went to help with its crisis staff, does it make sense for a small country like Estonia to hold one of the competences of crisis management, so-called general management, or should it be as is the case with the current emergency law that each authority holds its own crisis management competence?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U259	Thank you very much. I think that the amendment introduced by the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases to deal with situations caused by epidemics When it comes to national, large and decisive effects, which, according to the State Liability Act, may also result in compensation for damage, I believe that in many cases it is right that the Government of the Republic takes responsibility. However, this should be exceptional. As has been said, however, the Health Board, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Social Insurance Board and several other agencies should be able to resolve specific local crises in their area. I do not think it is right to abandon this principle. It is a general principle of governance that responsibility must be shared, and in cases where it is most reasonable to intervene as close to the person as possible, where there is a problem, there should also be full liability for those who intervene. In short, that the Government of the Republic, the Prime Minister or any other minister would work constantly instead of officials, I believe you did not want to and did not ask about it. I'm sure it won't work for long. As far as the preparation of decisions and restrictions is concerned, if it is possible to trust officials and experts that they will do properly within the deadline, this is, of course, the preferred solution. And, as has been said, many scientists and, fortunately, many officials also showed very good performance and leadership qualities, so that they can be trusted in the future. I believe that you have referred to your question that, at a time of crisis, you now had a great deal to discuss, establish and decide on your own ministerial work, and such a system really does not make sense, as you know very well on the basis of long-term ministerial experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U260	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U261	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In your speech, you said that any restrictions and measures will work together. That's what I'm asking you about. There is still a 2+2 rule in the theatres, which means that there are no theatre halls in Estonia where people can sit by the 2+2 rule to cover the costs of the performance, not to mention the costs involved. Of course, we do not want a theatre ticket to become a luxury product at the cost. At the same time, this rule seems hypocritical in today's situation, because the situation is like this, we imagine, that a person comes from a job where the rules are no longer followed, goes through a store where no one looks at red lines on the floor anymore, goes to public transport, where these rules have never been observed, and gets to the theatre to watch a show. And now all of a sudden there's a rule of 2 plus 2! But if he passes a person who has taken his place in the bench row, who is politely standing up, he is already breaking the rule because he passes another person ten centimeters away. Is that meaningful or pointless?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U262	Unfortunately, I don't have the authority to make assessments of my senses, even if I'd like to. In the case of sports, theatre and cinema halls, too, it seems to me that the restrictions currently in force should be addressed to the part that talks about 50% coverage, i.e. the possibility of dispersing. How many of these places can you follow the 2+2 rule, and is it reasonable to put two strangers, one of whom may be coughing, side by side? Well, obviously not. But do you think you could sit together as members of a family or a group of friends who were either fooled around before the show and are after it? I think you could. Probably one measure that could be considered more and more boldly in the future is that there are limits to occupancy so that people can sit separately from others. For once again, not to be afraid of punishment, but to be afraid of infection. Personally, in the current situation, where the virus has not yet disappeared, I would rather keep a distance. And I recommend it to others.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U263	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U264	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! As you can see, I'm still a masked worm. I may also have reason to believe that if you wear it correctly, even a surgical mask, it will actually be useful. What am I referring to? For two and a half years, I've been sitting on the bedside of people with influenza A for two and a half years and I've been able to stay healthy because I've been wearing a mask. And secondly, I am actually referring to the research of researchers, not Estonian researchers, even the research and analysis of researchers at the University of Portugal, in which the wearing of the mask is recommended and it is said to be useful to wear the same surgical masks. Therefore, it is still mandatory to wear masks in public transport, shops and other enclosed spaces in Portugal. However, my question concerns the subject of so-called apps, which has been discussed a great deal. I've got the information that this app might even be a little harmful. For example, if a person learns that a corona virus carrier has been present near him, he may begin to hide that he too may have been infected and that he too may have fallen ill. He's not even going to test himself because he's afraid he'll just have to go into isolation. Have you been able to reach out to you on such subjects? Do you have any opinion on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U265	There have always been a great deal of appeals about the protection of data and privacy, and mostly in the direction that the Republic of Estonia is not going to allow anything like this. As has been said earlier, the General Data Protection Regulation will certainly not allow such apps to be made mandatory, and there are limits to the use of data collected through a non-mandatory app. Either way, we're monitoring it. And just for the record, a very interesting development is that some countries have proposed such an option that if you cross the border, you voluntarily waive your fundamental rights as a condition for crossing the border is that you have to use this app on a mandatory basis. But true, in addition to all the other dangers, the cell phone doesn't go out in crowded places, the person does.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U266	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U267	Thank you, manager. Thanks for the report. It was very thorough and enlightening, and so were the answers. But for some time now, I have been asked by an emergency as such. If an emergency is announced, it will never be brought to an end, it will have a beginning and an end. We all understand that it is also justified to impose further restrictions during this period, if they are still being done sensibly. However, the emergency situation is not clearly defined in such a legal framework. We don't know exactly when it's gonna start and when it's gonna end. However, the emergency allows for a wide range of restrictions. Do you see, and how much risk you see, that in the shadow of the opening of the emergency ambush there is really a potential for these in vain violations of fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U268	Thank you very much. That's a very good question again. It has had to be explained very much that, in some respects, the danger of an emergency, emergency situation, crisis management and preparedness levels are not something secret to the public to explain the state of things, but rather an internal terminology on which it depends who should do what, or more precisely, should depend because, as has been explained, there are shortcomings in this matter. The risk of an emergency, as well as the emergency situation in the responsible authority, shall be identified in itself. These institutions are not very numerous and are designated by the Government of the Republic regulation; in the field of public health, they are the Health Board. These authorities shall keep this line and shall determine whether an emergency or an emergency is involved. As far as I know, it's usually done in a professional manner and exactly as it should be. Now, the question of when, for example, this time the emergency actually ended or should have ended is certainly worth discussing in the future. But for now, going into it would probably mean making a noise. These shortcomings should first be rectified and then other matters can be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U269	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U270	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! In order to show myself to be a successful leader of an emergency situation, there is one way to first project a very black scenario and then show how successfully I fought that this black scenario did not materialise. And actually, that's because the initial projections were about 20 times worse than the reality. Of course it can be said that it was a good job, but rather I think it was an error of forecasting or starting points. In this context, I would also like to ask you about the masked shoe, which is completely incomprehensible to me. It seems to me that no one is responsible for selling dust masks to medical masks. People bought them in anticipation and in the belief that this mask would protect them, but it was actually a simple dust mask. And it's very hard to identify, but maybe some people died as a result of wearing a dust mask, not a surgical mask. Can it be considered normal that such a completely incomprehensible action is taking place? How would you judge that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U271	Thank you very much. The situation was that this enormous fear and the noise of information that came from all over the world gave impetus to imagining as black scenarios as possible. We will probably never know what would have happened if the restrictions that were imposed had been less stringent or if the Estonian people had decided to give up on these restrictions collectively, which, thanks to heaven, was not done. We'll never know what would have been if it had been done differently. But the danger you are referring to certainly exists and that is why it is good that critical questions are also asked. As far as I am aware of the creation of masks, there is an inventory agency that should be deliberately equipped with different types of masks distributed to those who need them. It is likely to be a bit more difficult to explain on the subject of masks that, above all, doctors and other medical practitioners, including nursing staff, who are nursing people who may be exposed to this virus, must have protective respirators. The risk groups could have these masks. And if it really turns out that the surgical mask is also useful, really, there are different studies, then there is probably a need to share and recommend them as well. As far as dust masks are concerned, of this kind, I'd say accidents occurred all over the world, as far as I know. Some were quite entertaining, for example, several hundred thousand units of protective equipment or very expensive tests were bought, and after that it turned out that the benefits were nothing and the money was gone. So it is comforting to say that Estonia was not alone here. But the bad thing was, it wasn't thought out, there weren't any good supplies for us or anyone else, and the equipment had to be bought at a soul price. There was also a great deal of information in our house about the fact that doctors and carers were sometimes without protective equipment and were in very difficult working conditions. One person from our medical team left, so that's the problem. But what about dust masks? I'm kind enough to suggest that it's not a good thing to inhale, so next time you do your dusty work, put on your mask. Very reasonable!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U272	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U273	President-in-Office of the Council. Good Chancellor of Justice! At today's meeting, we have also discussed the time of crisis in the view of the state in the view of the government and the Riigikogu, but you certainly also dealt closely with the problems and challenges of local governments during the crisis. Are you able to make any generalisations about how our local authorities managed or what their main challenges were? How could local authorities better prepare for possible crisis situations in the future? I mean, above all, that for every person, the home, Estonia, especially the municipality in which he lives, begins. Tallinn, the Riigikogu and the government are such distant things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U274	Excellent question! The first problem that came to us was that of school food, which lasted all this time. Finally, it had to be clarified that, in the case of distance learning, if only one part of the students were to be chosen to cater, the grounds for this consideration must be reasonable and convincing and can only be decided by the council, not by the government. It became clear. Secondly, the release of kindergarten from the place fee is a subject that was commendably mentioned in many municipalities. Again with the council decision-making. Of course, the problem was how the council could come together in the first place. Officials working with the Minister for Public Administration very quickly proposed a number of options, but there are still a number of complaints to be resolved, and there are still a number of issues in our house. Municipalities who directed social workers to give them protection masks, which, indeed, were not at the beginning, but then the government did receive very nice help from those at risk, those who stayed at home and did not have anyone who would bring food or talk. So, at this point, it's not quite a representative view, it seems that the municipalities tried and quite well worked out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U275	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U276	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Chancellor! First of all, I would also like to thank you for your comprehensive report and clear answers. My question is this: do you think that the heads of important state offices should have appropriate preparation and education in the area they run, and should they also have previous experience in this area of employment or service before they take the lead?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U277	Thank you. I have nothing in my power to prescribe to decision-makers and those who make these choices, but the experience of life so far confirms that really, most people who have done more or less all the work in this area and who have an education and experience in this field are better able to manage the institution. Often, it is these people who also have the authority to make this profession work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U278	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U279	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable performer! I am very pleased that you are serious keywords, or not keywords, but those things that should actually be fixed as a matter of urgency. This whole story wasn't born today. All the previous years, if not decades, have been the foundation for what we now had. How did we diagnose the whole situation? I'm not asking you, we all know that very well. And maybe in this situation, in this timely diagnosis, it's also what gave rise to all these next moves. You know very well what informed consent is, both in medicine and elsewhere. In fact, the better the person is informed, the better he understands why he needs to do what he usually does not want to do. I think this process must continue, even with the same masks. Today, science's top journal Science points out that wearing a non-medical mask, which is made of its own clothing, prevents the spread of infection, as today 70% of the carriers of the virus are asymptomatic. And why is Taiwan, with a population of 24 million, where it was made mandatory to wear a mask from the very beginning and did nothing go away with 441 people who were still infected? They have 24 million inhabitants, and we have 1.3 million. They didn't shut anything down. They've got seven dead. I'm not asking you anything, you've all said no already, but what I'm saying is, be dear, help them think wisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U280	Thank you very much. I'll try and keep an eye on all these questions. In the case of scientific articles, it is often the problem that they do not take human behavior into account. I'm going to re-read the article you referred to, and I know it came up. I haven't really gotten any deeper, but I suspect there might be the same problem that human behavior is not taken into account. People think that the mask can be coughed or sneezed, that it can be used repeatedly, that it can be pulled under the chin from time to time or placed under a tram, that's how people behave, and in this case, there is a false sense of security. Of course, wearing the mask properly will help. I'm going to read this article again, but I think you're right, given your experience and knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U281	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U282	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good Chancellor of Justice! I have a very simple and specific question: what diagnosis would you make of the current emergency law in the light of this pandemic?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U283	Thank you very much. Thanks to the intervention of the Riigikogu and the fact that the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases was better regulated and that the Emergency Act does not need to be applied as much in this area as in the Law on Law Enforcement, the situation is all in all better. But the emergency law itself, as has been said earlier, could be much better in the context of a comprehensive rethink of the whole crisis regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U284	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U285	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good Chancellor of Justice, thank you for your report and your answers. You mentioned a question earlier concerning the ability of local authorities to manage, including the release of kindergarten from the place fee. Is it legitimate, and to what extent, that the municipal authorities exempt parents from paying the place payment in kindergarten? It is well known to be within the jurisdiction of the council.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U286	Thank you very much. That's what the council does. However, it is important to stress that, if things had gotten mixed up inside the municipality, those people who were exempted should not pay this fee afterwards. That would be bad administration. Here, the council, if it has any support, should just fix it afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U287	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U288	Good manager! Good waitress! I read here the explanatory memorandum to the Emergency Act: 'Since the emergency situation in Estonia has never been announced, the game-playing of CONEX 2015 scenarios provided an important input in the drafting process. ' Now, if you go back, perhaps you will remember this CONEX, the table manoeuvres between high officials, then there was talk of other things, such as the interruption of electricity supply and the provoked riots of a hostile state. I see that ladies and gentlemen of the Reform Party are the ones who ask basically, but in fact they are also tailors who sewed this suit with our dear Reform Party fellows. For example, tailor Kalle Laanet was a good chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at the time, and the minister was Hanno Pevkur. Is the suit made by these esteemed tailors really okay? Is it even possible to make a suit that would actually work, or is it, as Maris Lauri said, that they are preparing for the last war or last season's fashion when it comes to the suit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U289	Thank you very much. I very much hope that things will be fixed this time because the scare was serious enough. Secondly, I stressed that it was not worth focusing on looking for those responsible, and I did so precisely because all those who have ever been responsible for government must, unfortunately, at one point, admit that in their time too, there have been some things that have not been done or that have been done wrong. At the moment, it would be very good if everyone put together the forces to ensure that, in the next possible crisis, officials have specific, simple and clear tables ahead of them, not only for officials, but for every doctor, every entrepreneur, so as to know and know what happens when we have a landscape fire, riots or epidemics. And third, it wasn't said before, so much can I say here, that I have often been the first to say that if there are bases, there should be no fear of a state of emergency or of a state of emergency. These are the positions provided for in the Constitution, crisis management techniques, and if there are bases, they must be used. Until then, you're absolutely right, there was a conviction that there was an emergency that couldn't be announced. I have tried to explain at the exercises, and now I am also trying to explain to the public that, of course, if there is no foundation, but if there is a basis, not only can, but it must.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U290	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U291	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Chancellor! I always admire and enjoy your presentations and listen to them with great joy, both for simple speech and clear answers. You have already spoken a little about nursing homes in your previous answers, and my question is also partly about nursing homes. They work very differently across Estonia, I spoke to the Health Board. Deferral of visits, non-open-air visits, receipt of packages and non-receipt on these matters are very diverse. And since it is known that several nursing homes were actually closed before the emergency situation, which was justified because the influenza virus was feared, there are elderly people who have not seen their loved ones for six months. This situation is not acceptable. Do I know that there have been any of these appeals?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U292	Thank you very much for your good words and a good question. Yeah, of course it's going to be analyzed. Indeed, it is important for the next time, with nursing homes as well as with special care institutions, to clearly think through these issues, including those on the rights of people living in community services, and to find fair solutions in advance. Now, once again, quite frankly, it became a rabbi. We read in the papers how a mama lost even the yarn ball she needed to knit, not to mention that in many places a photo of a grandson born in the meantime was not passed on. It's still very cruel, and I don't think such things should happen again. Understandably, there was no protection. Sadly, those who work hard for a carer often move between several nursing homes and are potential entrants to a nursing home. And what you can deny is that in nursing homes there are not only elderly people whose movement is beautifully limited or thoughtful and who know to fear the risk of infection, but also people who simply go out to pick bottles and perhaps also to shop, and whose movement the local community is terribly upset, perhaps rightly. But all these people and situations are known and these questions can be thought through in advance so that the solution is as human as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U293	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U294	Thank you for the floor. Your Honor, Chancellor! Could you explain a little bit about the situation we were in during this emergency situation when it came to the order that normal regular medical care would no longer be given to people, because hospitals had to be kept for people who were probably suffering from coronal illness? How would such a situation be dealt with correctly in the future? Can we imagine that at some point in time we would not get into this situation, it was a precaution that was not really needed, and the reasonableness of which is the question of interpretation, where it is entirely appropriate to say that now no other medical assistance is available, but we are only dealing with this particular health crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U295	Thank you very much, very good question. First of all, it was a typical case where the Health Board did not know how to impose such a restriction, and it turned out that one Friday day a letter was simply sent to three professional associations. In the legal language, the letter lacked all the characteristics of the administrative act, lacked justification and was not delivered to nearly 2 000 people once again in bureaucratic language to the health care provider. Secondly, many dentists actually demanded such a ban and rightly did so because they did not have personal protective equipment. And thirdly, the answer to how you can do better in the future. Again, first of all, we need to think exactly whether it is conceivable that a stroke or heart attack sufferer or, for example, a person who has long waited for a very significant improvement in the quality of his life will lose his treatment. I'm afraid the people who left us this time, not with the corona, but with the corona, but with the closure of the health care service, are enough. Unfortunately, I have the sad honor of knowing some of these things myself. So once again, this is exactly the kind of question where the necessary preparatory work had not been done. Could and could have, but what's the point now is that it's important for things to be in order for the next time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U296	Thank you very much, Chancellor. No further questions for you. It is now possible to speak on behalf of the political groups. Alar Laneman on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U297	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Your Honor, Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, It's good to be here after such a speech and good questions and answers. For me, the rule of law relates in a sense to the way in which this mechanism, which serves the interests of all of us, is organised, and how practical it is. And although I agree with the assessment that overall we did well and that crisis management was not bad, it is still possible to say that this crisis was serious enough to show some of the bottlenecks. If you don't mind, I'll share my remarks. First of all, the leadership. It is clear that, above all, the Health Board, but perhaps also the supporting structures were not quite ready. The onset was very uncertain, for example, the virus was underestimated in what the disease was and how severe it was. Very confusing messages were broadcast. Pretty soon it became clear that the preparation was bad. During the emergency situation in the National Defence Committee, we asked the people of the Health Board what, and how much, were obtained from Christmas to March, and we received two replies from them, which were summarised as follows: nothing, no units. I was very sorry to hear that. Wasted time. Then the Crisis Committee was set up, and the Government of the Republic took over. That was a good thing in itself, because in such a situation, someone has to take responsibility and lead. The health department was strengthened by two top specialists and one could say that with one minister. What's the message? Bears a clear message that the current governance structure was not ready. The management did not match the situation. I see a certain risk here. The interference of the Government of the Republic in such a situation was good, but the risk is that, as the crisis widens or other crises add up, this is not, in my opinion, a sustainable solution. There is a very simple reason for this: if the Government of the Republic is doing the work of officials, who is doing the work of the Government of the Republic? The procedures for the appointment of senior officials and the requirements for them will have to be reviewed next. Head of the Defence Forces has grown out of the ranks of the Defence Forces and a man with experience and education in service. Same with the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board. But strangely enough, in an institution that should guard and protect our most precious property, our health, this requirement has not been met for some reason. And that's why we always have to be a little softer when we criticize the Health Board. They played within the limits of what they were given. But the importance of professional preparation and experience in the ministry was demonstrated by the crisis. It was a typical crisis, all characteristics existed: unclear and changing situation, incomplete and conflicting information, lack of resources, conflicting orders and instructions. Classic crisis! This is where the previous experience and education come into play. In war, such a term is taken from German, such as Fingerspitzengefühl, or fingertip sense, which is best defined as the ability to react in an escalating situation, and instinct can also be a very good explanation. If you do not have a service experience or an education, you do not have a chance. Now, on 26 February, two weeks before the state of emergency was announced, we felt in the Committee on Security Authority Supervision that we needed to... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U298	There's an extra time, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U299	We called the Head of the Health Board because we had an evil suspicion that the sector problem would become wider and be transferred to other areas. We were very much hoping that this would not be the subject of our institutions. Our doubts were well founded. Another big thing, where I believe that there are many sources of error, is that of action based on the objective. I looked at the Statute of the Health Board and there was the closest thing to saying that the Agency was implementing policy. You know, when we talk about expediency, I think that every institution should have a very simple language for the reason why it exists. Speaking of the Health Board, it is not because of the organisation or supervision of the treatment, but, in short, it is because of the protection of our people's health. It has to do with prevention, healing, restoration, and other things, just as the Defence Forces protect against the foreign enemy. However, this happened during the crisis, and it is the most tragic, so that the protective, or population, began to protect the one who should have protected him. And we haven't got the bill yet. I can't imagine the Commander of the Defence Forces saying, you know, I'm not fighting, because the enemy is overwhelming, I have to protect my army, I'm retreating. I apologise to the people involved, but such a relief is necessary because it is about protecting our health and life. There was a lot of positive. The police's decision to send five hundred men home was a very good example of leadership and strategic thinking. The need to plan and prepare was clearly stated by the esteemed Chancellor of Justice and proved by the fact that the only ones who were able to function and help others during the crisis were the Defence Forces, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Defence League and the Rescue Board. So here's a hint we need to plan and get the resources ready. Saving resources and guaranteeing only peacetime capabilities is a scam because we see that the bill will be spread out to all of us later. Nor must we underestimate the people of Estonia. I did not think there was such a focus that people themselves must prepare for the crisis. The Rescue Department has done a lot here, but I think this job could be continued. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U300	Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U301	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, When this infection reached Estonia, I think we were all struck by shock, fear and panic. It was a completely new situation for everyone. Of course, mistakes were made in this situation, but mistakes are to learn from them. I absolutely agree that the people of Estonia behaved very sensibly and realised that we could overcome this crisis by acting together. It was our common, popular effort, in which everyone thought that he would not be infected himself or infect others. But if there's shock and fear, then there's a desire for a stronger or a tougher hand. There's a wish for someone else to decide and take responsibility for me, because maybe I don't know exactly what to do. Interestingly, today's societies are more infantile in some ways than before. We like to play and we like to move, but decisions are made by parents, perhaps somewhere else will decide for us. This came out very well, I think, during this crisis. Really, shut down the markets, all right? We're scared. If someone else told us that, it's not like we decided. It is not that we ourselves have made this decision because of our fear, but someone else said it, and he knows it. But for those who decide, what matters is the basis for the decision. In my opinion, the crisis has highlighted that increased funding for R &amp; D is certainly an issue that needs to be addressed, so that decision-making is research-based. In the case of decision-making, it also turned out that decision-makers must be able to resist the press by shutting everything down and imposing even tougher restrictions. And as my colleague Alar Laneman said here, 'If the Government of the Republic is doing the work of officials, who is doing the work of the Government of the Republic? ' I think this is a very correct observation. If there's a press that somebody has to decide, and the government takes decisions that involve details, then no one is looking at that overall picture. But it is important that we learn from this crisis and see what decisions not to make in the future. Last week, we had the opportunity to visit Saaremaa and meet people who were directly exposed to these issues at the epicentre of the crisis. Interestingly, the hospital in Kuressaare told us that no one had asked them about the lessons of the crisis. You don't really collect that information, but as time goes by, it just slips out of your mind. If these lessons are not recorded now and are not discussed now, then next time they will simply be of no use. The Chancellor of Justice mentioned a few more specific points here, which apparently were errors and which would not be worth doing next time, such as stopping scheduled treatment in private medicine, I am also in agreement with this, or the closure of healthy areas where this disease did not exist. But again, we had never been in this situation before. This is all a lesson for the future that we should simply take into account. I'll ask for more time, just in case, and then I'll see what else I don't have to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U302	There's an extra time, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U303	We have the National Defence Act in the Riigikogu, and I think it is important to look at the resolution of crises as a whole. What did this crisis teach? Taught us that we would not face one crisis at a time. It is therefore not the case that, when it comes to the prevention of communicable diseases, only an infectious disease must be dealt with, because nothing else is coming, that is only one thing and we are running this line. No, it's usually a whole set of troubles. There could be both a civilian crisis and a military crisis, one could go second and the other way around. We still have to have a complete picture of how we resolve crises. And finally. For me, the issue of freedom and responsibility, which the Chancellor of Justice also pointed out, is how much we trust people ourselves and to what extent these harsh restrictions are needed. As I said, the people of Estonia have shown that they are very reasonable when they are told why it is necessary to act the same way or the other way around. I also absolutely agree that if a country does rules that are simply not respected, the state will eat its own credibility, so that the next time there are rules that really need to be met by everyone, people can just whistle at them. Freedom is the most important, then other values will come. If we give away some of our freedoms, this is also one of the lessons of an emergency situation, how do we finally get these freedoms back? It is important that we do not give these things up once and for all, because in a small country, if we want to be a rule of law, these rights and freedoms are much more difficult to fight back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U304	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U305	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, everyone in the hall! I would very much like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for this very thoughtful presentation and debate. As noted above, indeed, this crisis came unexpectedly for us. We do not have any similar experience; nothing like this has happened before in re-independence in Estonia. So there's a lot to learn from this. The Chancellor of Justice described the problems very politely and abstractly and did not bring out at least a part of them in a very specific way. He was talking about substitution activities that we saw in a number of different forms. One particularly ridiculous moment was when we read through foreign media that Estonia has applied for a derogation from the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights. This must have been about Article 15 and its implementation. Fortunately, the Chancellor of Justice and other legal experts quickly assured us that our fundamental rights were not in jeopardy because, according to the Constitution, they cannot be taken away from us. This in some ways calmed society, on the other hand, it was a good example of how the Chancellor of Justice spoke of it as a substitute for the damage caused to Estonia, which may sometimes be quite a grotesque. Why do such things need to be done? The opposition and coalition do not have a different view of our foreign policy image, but internationally this move to our image in the sense that we are a country with a European view to human rights certainly did not benefit. Let us hope that in the future, we will not panic or start doing such things. It was mainly spoken of as reaching the opposition via the media and could be read as examples of how the location of those infected with the Corona virus or those quarantined should be clearly monitored. A mild version would use an app, but in fact, these people should still be localized and practically tracked against all of them. The curfew was a very demanding thing to take in, and the municipalities asked if they too could get an overview of who exactly their area was infected. Luckily, it didn't go that far, but at some point it seemed pretty close. We need to think very carefully about how to avoid such desires, because it is very dangerous to our fundamental rights. After all, we here in the Riigikogu were startled at the beginning and did not know what to do with this virus, but we recovered. The committees were able to refocus very quickly and to continue their work. In the case of the big hall, the mess was a little bit bigger. We didn't set a very good example in the early stages when we met hundreds of people in this room, but finding good practice didn't get us the best of chitchat. But the Riigikogu had work to do. This was also demonstrated by how many of the drafts related to the crisis arrived in this hall. Unfortunately, it was a cluster dish. In a crisis situation, it could be said that the situation is different from this good lawmaking practice. However, there were also clear problems in terms of content with regard to these cluster drafts. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U306	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U307	We saw that there was a political desire to take advantage of the situation and to incorporate political dreams that were not linked to the crisis into the cluster bill, and many of them went through. We also saw the desire of the authorities to do some things that have otherwise tended to stand in the Riigikogu or for which sufficient consensus has not been found. It was obviously a very bad practice. After all, in order to put an end to the emergency situation and maintain some restrictions, the government also came quickly to Parliament with a draft which was not the best analysed and coordinated and raised many questions. Unfortunately, attempts by opposition parties to point out that not only in substantive matters, but also in constitutional matters, did not succeed. For some reason, it seemed that the position was taken that this was the usual spite of the opposition, and so we found ourselves in the situation that we voted again today on a law which is still questionable and which the President has already sent back to us once. Yes, crises always catch us off guard, and they're not going anywhere, they're probably coming in the future, but I think we need to learn from them. I very much hope that the Riigikogu will perceive its role and assume the role of substantive leader at the autumn session at the latest. While we see that the Emergency Act does not have any important role to play in the Riigikogu, and even in the case of crisis management, it is clear that the crisis is managed by the government and the relevant authorities through day-to-day decisions, and so is the sensible part of the law, but the part that concerns the fundamental rights of people must not, in any case, be abandoned by Parliament. In my opinion, this experience has now become a very serious problem. The Constitution also says that the state is still governed by the Riigikogu, even in a crisis situation. If we keep this in mind and there are indeed substantive discussions in the Riigikogu, where involvement is substantive, not apparent or made to get a bird's letter and say that you see, after all, we have decided together, then it can actually be won politically. One lesson for all politicians, I think, is what we see in the Scandinavian countries. I bring Denmark, for example, but this generally applies to all Scandinavian countries. All of these countries sought maximum consensus from the start of the crisis on the adoption of the laws relating to the crisis and the agreement of solutions. In Denmark, for example, all the draft crises were adopted by consensus in Parliament, although there are twice as many political parties in Parliament as we do. It paid off. If you look at the confidence of the Estonian people in the Estonian government, nothing has changed during the crisis, everything is the same. On the other hand, in the Scandinavian countries, the support of the Prime Minister's party grew exponentially, in Denmark about 8%. So it can be politically useful when, even during the crisis, Parliament is working in search of maximum consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U308	Thank you, good waitress. Now I'm sorry to have to let you finish.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U309	I'm sorry for exceeding time! I hope that, in every way, we got smarter during this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U310	Thank you! The representatives of the political groups have no further wish to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, if you wish, you are welcome to speak once again. No, I don't. So the hearing of our Chancellor of Justice today is over. I thank the Chancellor of Justice! I thank all the members of the Riigikogu for their questions and speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U311	We will go to the next item, which is the first reading of the Spatial Data Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Bill of Amendment of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Cooperatives Act 196. The waitress is Minister of the Environment Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U312	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Before you is the draft law amending the Spatial Data Act and the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The main objective of amending these laws is, firstly, to simplify the detection of address objects and the procedures related to these objects and, secondly, to strengthen the links between the address details system and the land register and the construction register. In order to make it easier to locate an address object, the Land Administration, as the controller of the address data system, is given the right to specify areas with a unique address. These are the areas where address objects must have an address that no other object of the same type has. Areas shall be determined on the basis of the densely populated areas designated by the local government's general plan and shall also take into account the actual situation. It is important to ensure that both rapid reacters and, for example, couriers, or any of us, quickly find the building we are looking for on the basis of an address. In order to improve the identification of address objects, a second amendment provides for an exception for the establishment of a parallel address for land units on built-in transport land. This change means that when it comes to a very long built-up unit of land, such as a underground unit under rail, it is possible to set a separate address for buildings. At present, these buildings have the same address as the one-kilometer track, which makes it difficult to find buildings. Two amendments are made to simplify the procedure for determining addresses. First, the Act lays down the power of attorney under which the Government of the Republic may grant the Minister concerned the right to set up a system of address details. This amendment has been tabled by the State Chancellery. The amendment harmonises the rules of the Spatial Data Act and the Public Information Act. The Spatial Data Act also regulates the establishment of a geodetic system, including both coordinate and altitude systems. Secondly, it provides for a new possibility for the owner of the address object to be informed of the change of address by e-mail and, in the case of an apartment building, to forward the information to the building management company. Currently, the municipality has to inform the owner of the address object of its intention to assign an address by ordinary mail. The draft will provide additional information options. The person's opinion may also be requested by electronic means, and the local authority may also deliver the notification itself. The amendment increases the likelihood that a person will receive the notification in time and will also be able to express his or her opinion if he or she so wishes. For local government, this means saving both time and costs. The draft also provides that the owner of the apartment property may be informed of the change of address through the building management company. The building management company regularly communicates with its members and therefore the cooperative is best aware of how to deliver the notice effectively to the person. This provision was also introduced by the Riigikogu in the Land Cadastral Act in 2018 and has justified itself in practice. The second law to be amended is the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure better interaction between the national information systems, in particular the land register and the address information system. In the first section of the register, the purpose of the item of private property, for example whether it is a dwelling or a non-dwelling space, shall also be entered in the property of the dwelling. The location address of the dwelling property is needed to establish links between the land register and the address details system. For example, if two apartment buildings are located in a rural unit, it is currently not clear from the land register which apartment the entry of the land register is related to. According to the draft, the definition of such a link is made mandatory for the creation of apartment property. Most apartment property data has already been organized, but it is necessary to ensure that the spatial data and addresses of all new apartment properties are also included in the information system. In addition, there are other amendments to the draft. Most of them are simply technical in nature and are made to ensure legal clarity and have no substantive impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U313	Thank you. All members of the Riigikogu now have the opportunity to ask questions. Minister, you don't seem to have any questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U314	Next, I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U315	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U316	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed this draft on Monday, 8 June and, in addition to the Minister of the Environment Rene Koka, the lawyer of the Treasury Department Glen Roosaar and the Head of the Address Data Department of the Land Office Mall Leht took part in the discussion. The Minister presented the draft in detail to the Commission. The members of the Commission had a number of questions that were well answered, and the members of the Commission unanimously decided to propose to the large Chamber to close the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U317	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you either. Thank you! The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 196 be completed, and the first reading is completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 3 July at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U318	Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the last item on the agenda of today's tense working day, and this is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Names Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please waitress Jaak Aabi, Minister of State Administration!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U319	Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Names Act. I will give a brief overview of the amendments proposed by this draft. As a substantive amendment to the draft proposal, the procedure for resolving the place-name disputes will change. At the moment, the seat name board resolves disputes concerning the designation or use of the place name as an out-of-court dispute body. For example, in disputes between Madrus Street in the city of Tartu and Sauna Street in the municipality of Kadrina, the appeal submitted by the municipality was settled not by the local government, but by the law, by the local name council. The current Act gives the Council an unprecedented wide range of rights to repeal the administrative act or part thereof and to make other binding precepts when reviewing the appeal concerning the administrative act of the municipality. It's actually a precedent for our entire administration. After all, in other decisions, the municipality is independent and, in principle, disputes are settled in court. The second problem lies in the fact that, if the disputed parties decide to challenge the decision of the Council in turn before the Administrative Court, the Court will involve the Council in legal proceedings as an argumentary party and no longer as an independent expert reviewer. This draft introduces an amendment according to which the seat name board will no longer resolve disputes and it will remain the responsibility of the local authority which has taken the decision. However, the local names council will continue to advise the municipalities and, if necessary, present a prudent position in the name dispute. The draft also provides for a period of appeal within which the municipality or citizen can refer the matter to the House Name Board for expert advice in the name dispute. This opinion can be relied on by the municipality in its dispute or by the court in its hearing. The second change is the transfer of the national place name register to the Land Board. According to the current law, the chief processor of the place name register is the Land Office, which is under the administration of the Ministry of the Environment. The draft decree designates the Land Board as the controller of the register, who currently actually delivers the register on a daily basis and has full competence in terms of the performance of the register. The amendment will move implementation tasks from ministry level to agency level and reduce bureaucracy between institutions. The Ministry of Finance will continue to shape the general sectoral policy contained in the Place Name Act. The amendment also involves directing funds related to the register from the budget of the Ministry of Finance to the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. The third block of changes is of a more technical nature. An amendment has been proposed according to which the status of the place name should be set out more clearly. This is necessary in order to avoid cases in practice where, through the designation of a place name, attempts have been made to obtain a legal status, for example, for a port, for example, a Lutheran, but it is called a port and it is therefore attempted to change the legal status, although in essence it does not change the status. The proposed amendment provides for such an exclusion more clearly than is currently the case. There is also a change in track names, in which case the municipality no longer has to seek the consent of the minister, but the opinion of the seat name board is sufficient. Since parallel names are very rarely assigned to places and it is important, in particular, to assess compliance with its language rules, the opinion of the House Names Board is sufficient. The change also reduces the time taken by municipalities to set a parallel name. In addition, the draft stipulates that the right to the composition of the Council and the approval of the Statute shall be transferred from the Government to the Minister for Public Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U320	Good Minister, there are questions for you too! First Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U321	Good manager! Good minister! I read here that according to § 3, the place name does not create independent rights or obligations for the name object. Does this mean that if someone lives on the Baron or Admiral road, it doesn't make him a baron or an admiral?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U322	Thank you for your question. I gave an example of what this change should really regulate, the same example of a barn and a port. If someone renames their own barn as a port and tries to change the legal status of this barn and, for example, to apply for various grants, it has now been clarified that the name object does not change the status of the name object. It is now quite clearly described. So far, it could be interpreted differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U323	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U324	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We have a non-similar draft law on the subject of place names, which specifically concerns two street names in Narva, on the same subject. Is the adoption of this law today an opportunity to find a solution in the context of the Narva case?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U325	Thank you for your question. I know that such a bill has been initiated in the Riigikogu. I have not gone into the details, but, as far as I know, the changes proposed by the government, and those proposed here in the draft, are not the same. They are trying to solve some historical problem, as I understand its content. I am still in favour of the municipality being the main denominator of the place name. If there is a problem that the law on the name of the place has not been fully complied with, then you can lodge a challenge. At the moment, it can be resolved even in the context of the House Names Council's own proceedings. However, the proposed change is that if a complaint is lodged by the residents or by an organisation, it can be settled by a court. I will, of course, examine this draft, and the Government will certainly give an opinion on the draft that has been initiated here, as foreseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U326	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U327	Now, a little more serious. I will continue with this rather funny debate between Ülenurme and Kambja municipality. The people of the municipality of Ülenurme made it clear in the referendum that the municipality should remain Ülenurme, but the result of jogging and the action of the local council and government was that people might want to, but the municipality will still be Kambja. It was a government decision. The current bill transfers certain responsibilities from the Ministry of Finance to the Land Office, and this bureaucratic move is taking place. If this law were to apply in the case of Ülenurme and Kambja, would the situation still have been the same, or would things have changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U328	Thank you for your question. Whoever is in charge of the name register or the authorised processor is certainly not affected by the name disputes. The argument between Kambja and Ülenurme is complicated. It is such a matter of local life that arose during the administrative reform, where the municipality of Kambja was part of the new administrative unit and the municipality of Ülenurme was part of the second. This topic was also examined during the administrative reform process and the government decided on the name. The next time the appeal was filed, the matter went back to the government and that was the decision. Based on the opinion of the seat-name board. As far as I can remember, the experts of the local naming council, together with philologists and historians, were based on the historical value of Kambja's name, for example, relating to the parish, etc., and on this basis the government made a decision. That's all I can explain. But I understand it's still causing a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U329	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I call Heiki Hepner, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U330	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Rural Affairs on 8 June. Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, Mart Uusjärv, Head of Regional Administrative Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Martin Kulp, Legal Adviser to the same department, also participated in the discussion. We made three decisions there, all by consensus: to appoint the speaker here as rapporteur, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 17 June and to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped. I will give you a very brief overview, as the Minister has already conducted a very thorough examination of the draft. I will give a brief overview, in particular, of how we had a debate in the Commission on such a Commission review. It was about how the seat name board was formed, how its members were appointed and who belonged to it. We also talked about parallel names. Perhaps such a longer discussion was taken on the same subject as our good colleague, Ivari Padar, just a moment ago. Urmas Kruuse asked whether street names were included in the law on the place names and whether the amendments to the bill were related to the place names related to the repressive bodies. Indeed, the Minister said that, of course, like all the place names, street names go under this law, but the draft does not concern specific place names. That's what I was looking at right now. In fact, as we know, local governments have a great degree of autonomy, it is very good; I am a passionate defender of local governments' autonomy, although sometimes we may not like it, but in principle we should look at a particular local government in this situation. Paragraph 13 of the current Act refers to the requirements for choosing a place name and paragraph 6 states what must be ruled out. There are such points that the place name must not be vulgar or derogatory and that the place name must not be incompatible with the Estonian history of time and culture. I think that, if there were any wish, this issue could also be resolved in the light of today's current law. That would actually be my brief review. As I said, the Commission decided unanimously to close the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U331	Thank you, good waitress. No questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U332	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-17_U333	The commission has proposed to close the first reading of the draft 186. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 3 July at 4 p.m. Thank you all, ladies and gentlemen. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 6.28 p.m.
