ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! The Monday session of the 11th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu begins. As usual, the first is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group handed over a draft decision here in the Riigikogu six months ago to give the government the task of collecting all the lessons from the spring corona virus outbreak in order to go against the second wave smarter in the autumn. Three months ago, on 14 September, we handed over a second draft decision in order for the government to draw up guidelines for educational institutions, so that our children can continue to learn in secure conditions and that everyone can understand how to organise it in the same way. Both draft decisions were rejected. It is forcing us to come back here today to hand over the draft decision that we want lessons to be collected and there will be rules and guidelines in the field of education to live by. But more than that, 154 people have left us because of the corona virus. Every one of the deceased is someone's mother, father, grandmother, sister, brother. These aren't just numbers, they're people. In order to keep these numbers small in the future, we ask the Government of the Republic to draw up and adopt a comprehensive plan to combat the COVID epidemic, with uniform and clear rules for sharing, involving and using health resources and possible requests for assistance from other countries, the Member States of the European Union, common bases for restrictions on movement and support for the most damaged entrepreneurs and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U3	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to read you some very serious statistics. In 2019, 4119 domestic violence crimes were registered. This was 14% more than in 2018. Nearly 30% of domestic violence crimes were committed by children. In total, 643 sexual crimes were registered in 2019, of which 549 were children. I think we all understand that these are very serious and gruesome statistics. In order to prevent such things, but also to help those children who are victims, I will, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Central Party, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa, transfer the draft law amending § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act. So I'm hoping to process it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U5	The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U6	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Road Traffic Act and the Road Transport Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act. Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia Riina Solman, Minister of Population, when dealing with the draft law. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, the Building Code and the State Fees Act. In the Riigikogu, Raul Siem, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the 1996 International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in the Sea of Hazardous and Noxious Substances (HNS Convention) Act of Accession to the 2010 Protocol. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Rain Epler, Minister of the Environment, when the bill is being processed. All the drafts have been forwarded to the Riigikogu electronically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted six drafts. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Now we're conducting a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U8	There are 96 members of the Riigikogu and there is no 5. Let us go to the next item, clarification and approval of the agenda. Is Indrek Saarel a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U9	Thank you, Mr President. I really have a question about the agenda. On Friday, the Social Democrats proposed to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister that, in view of the situation, issues related to the health crisis should be addressed as soon as possible. We can see that it is not on the agenda until Tuesday. Can you explain to us, on behalf of the Bureau, the compelling arguments why this issue is not so time-critical that it can only be processed on Tuesday if we have a hearing today and we can talk about it today? Could you explain to us why this agenda has become such and why you think there is enough time to address the issue of the health crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U10	Thank you. We have dealt with the health crisis here on several occasions. The Prime Minister accepted this statement, he agrees to come to the Riigikogu with a political statement and, according to his wishes and opportunity, he expressed his wish to come to this Chamber tomorrow. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U11	Thank you. I'd be more specific. In fact, it was the case that the Prime Minister announced that he wanted to come to the Riigikogu at 10 a.m. on Tuesday to talk about the COVID, on which both the Social Democrats and the Reform Party suggested that he should come right now at 3 a.m. because he is free of self-insulation and nothing can be more important than dealing with the COVID now that we have 760 infected one day. What did the Prime Minister say about that? Why isn't he here today? Why do we have a draft referendum on the agenda, and why are we not talking about the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U12	Thank you. The statement made by the Prime Minister specifically stated Tuesday, not today. You can ask him about it tomorrow. But I believe it has to do with the tight schedule of government and prime minister. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U13	Good President! Estonia has record signs of infection. A number of health professionals and health officials have said that the critical boundary of Estonian hospitals is not far off. There are very many questions and questions about whether Estonia will be able to start vaccination immediately at the beginning of next year. But you say that the Prime Minister has business to do, that he cannot come before the Riigikogu, where he has been invited to talk about the corona crisis, that is, what is really important. How should the Estonian public understand this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U14	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. But the Prime Minister will also deal with the issues of the Coronary Apandemia today and will come to the Riigikogu tomorrow. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U15	Thank you. It is undoubtedly regrettable that the Prime Minister is not in front of us today. He was in the Riigikogu house about an hour ago, but he was not ready for the hearing today. But it was only the application of one party. The other half, however, was to exclude from today's work programme a referendum that would not solve any problems and, in fact, draw attention significantly away. Could you also respond to the request made entirely legally in the context of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U16	Thank you. Yes, of course. But you have been a member of the Riigikogu for so long that you should know that once the draft agenda for next week has been approved by the Bureau and has been disbanded, even the management does not have the right to change it in the meantime. Neither do the political groups. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U17	I've got a book here called "The Law of the Riigikogu on Home and Rules of Procedure. Comments," which gives quite a lot of clarity on how we do this work here. This law says, among other things, that the Prime Minister's statement can be placed on the agenda, as he says, it has nothing to do with the adoption of the agenda last week. Actually, there's no way to get behind it. The Prime Minister could come here tonight. Why didn't the Prime Minister come? What did he say to you? Why can't he come here today? Question two. I understand that the proposal is that we are going out of tomorrow's agenda for the discussion of an important national issue, the health development plan for the Estonian population. Would it not be more reasonable if we replaced this item on today's agenda, took it out, listened to the Prime Minister today, and tomorrow we would still be discussing a health development plan, which is undoubtedly very important in this COVID situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U18	Thank you, Honourable Kaja Kallas. I don't think you understood what we were discussing here with Mr Ossinovski. Rather, he asked why the proposal not to exclude the debate on the draft referendum from today's agenda was not discussed. That's what I answered. On the second question you asked: the Prime Minister's debate can and will be put on the agenda. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U19	Thank you! I, too, have a procedural question. For me too, this agenda, which has been prepared, seems questionable; the priorities are out of place. Of course, we should first deal with health issues in the country and then with this survey. But you are saying here that the Prime Minister has chosen his own day before the Riigikogu. I, too, have the yellow book Kaja Kallas showed you. It clearly states that the agenda for the working week is prepared by the Management Board of the Riigikogu. As far as I know, you belong to the board. So my first question is why you did not prepare a different agenda and whether this referendum really is more important than the health crisis. The second question is that if I do not agree with the Riigikogu as a member of the Riigikogu, and perhaps there are very many colleagues here who do not agree with this agenda, and we will vote against this agenda, what then, how can we start work at all and what happens if this happens today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U20	Well, it is only natural that every member of the Riigikogu will vote as he wishes in the case of the specification and approval of the agenda. You have full freedom to vote against it and nothing bad will happen, your vote against will count. The Bureau drew up the agenda on the basis of the wishes and proposals of the committees. Besides, at that time, at that moment, there had been no statement of any kind from you yet. But I didn't give an answer to Kaja Kallas. I'm sorry! This reason that the debate on a key national issue moved forward was the Commission's proposal. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U21	Thank you, good manager. I, too, have a procedural question. Two groups of the Riigikogu have expressed their wish to focus today in the Chamber of Riigikogu on the discussion of the lost corona crisis. Nevertheless, we are getting married referendums on the agenda today. We do not want to engage in this replacement activity here today. You referred to the Prime Minister's timetable when making this choice. It's publicly observable to everyone. The Prime Minister's schedule, which is off his website, currently has absolutely nothing. Now my question: did the President of the Riigikogu pass on to the Prime Minister the wishes of members of the parliament and two political groups to discuss the corona crisis in the Chamber of the Riigikogu today and this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U22	What is on the Prime Minister's agenda when you say that there is nothing there now does not mean that the Prime Minister is doing something. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] You yourself have been a member of the government, and you know perfectly well that ministers have a lot of work to do, a lot of work. Moreover, if two groups of the Riigikogu do not want the agenda as it is and the three groups so wish, Estonia is a democratic state, Estonia will be decided as it will be decided at the voting time. The will of most of us predates. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Please tell me if you think of it like any of your predecessors who have said that if Parliament calls the Minister, the Minister will come. As a result, I would like to ask whether you very specifically proposed to the Prime Minister that he should come to Parliament today and hold a debate on this very important issue, in other words, to give us an overview of what the Government has thought. But even more importantly, looking at this argument here, I could propose to you that you suddenly take the chairman's break and let the Prime Minister know that he has the opportunity to come right now. He still seems officially empty on the agenda, and we can move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U24	This is not a procedural question. I cannot say whether both the Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group really think that if you send letters to the Riigikogu Board and also to the Prime Minister personally, these letters will not arrive. Of course they will. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U25	Thank you, good manager. From the question of the two previous questioners, I now ask again: did you or did you not communicate with the Prime Minister on this matter? I didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U26	Is that a procedural question? I don't think it's at all. But, of course, I've been talking to the Prime Minister. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please! Excuse me. Evgeny Ossinovski was first.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U27	Thank you. I would like to clarify my first question a little bit. In your reply, it seems to me that you confused the terms "promoting the agenda" and "confirming the agenda." Indeed, after the adoption of the agenda, except in exceptional cases, points cannot be added. Even the board can't do that. We are now in the moment that is after the agenda is announced and before it is approved, and in accordance with § 54 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, it can be supplemented. A request has come to change the agenda in accordance with this paragraph and to remove today's item from the agenda so that we do not engage in substitution activities during this difficult time for the Estonian people. Please respond to this completely legal request.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U28	Yes, after the Riigikogu Board has sent out the agenda, no changes can be made. If there is a wish to change, the grand hall of the Riigikogu decides whether it comes from a political group or from a board member or from a board member. No one has taken that right. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U29	Thank you. I have an explanation for the procedural issues. I've been in contact with the Prime Minister, too. The Prime Minister has called the COVID Crisis Committee tomorrow morning to come to the Riigikogu with the most current and most operational information. Therefore, immediately after the COVID Crisis Committee meeting, he wishes to come to the Riigikogu tomorrow. That's why the Prime Minister will be here tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U30	Thanks for the clarification. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U31	Thank you. I'm still sticking to this draft agenda meeting procedure. Since you didn't answer my last question, I'm forced to repeat it by the side. When you, the Board of the Riigikogu, received the proposals of the political groups, which included the desire to focus today on the debate on the corona crisis, did you forward these proposals to the Prime Minister? Do we have to conclude that the Prime Minister has rejected these proposals to focus on the debate on the corona crisis in the Chamber of the Riigikogu today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U32	Thank you. Of course, I forwarded these statements to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will come and answer all your questions and make a political statement about the corona crisis tomorrow. As regards the amendment of the agenda, it is possible to make this proposal in this Chamber, but if only one political group is opposed to it, this proposal will not go to the vote either. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You didn't answer the first part of my last question. Given that the COVID crisis is close to its peak and the medical system is at its edge, did you propose to the Prime Minister to come to the Riigikogu today anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U34	In my opinion, this was proposed by the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party does not want or support any change to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U36	Thank you. With this, the possibility of us voting to remove the draft referendum from the agenda will also go away. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U37	Yeah. Well, now we're in the procedure too. I'd do it right, though. If there is a concrete proposal for amendment and if a political group wishes to veto it, which is, of course, perfectly permissible under the Home and Working Rules Act, it will also be done in concrete terms. I propose, then, that the marriage referendum be removed from this week's agenda so that Parliament can deal with important matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U38	Thank you. Do you have enough of the statement already made by Mr Pohlak and the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, or do you still want a separate statement? Yeah. Please, then I'll get Siim Pohlak in here. Do you agree that this item will be removed from the agenda, or will you stick to your first statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U39	Thank you. I repeat to Mr Ossinovski that the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party disagrees with the withdrawal of the issue of the marriage referendum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U40	Thank you. With this, this debate is behind us. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U41	Thank you. First of all, I have a statement about Helir-Valdor Seeder's comment. He said that the crisis committee would meet in an emergency tomorrow. Every Tuesday at 9:00 p.m., the Crisis Committee of the COVID will meet with the Prime Minister; this has nothing to do with the discussion of this Riigikogu. Secondly, the question is whether the Prime Minister is not the head of this government and can not call it a committee exactly when it is necessary, for example, to come here today before the Riigikogu and provide sufficient information. If he's in charge, he'll be able to make those decisions. The second proposal we made was to replace them, to delete the draft referendum today and to exchange it against the COVID debate, to hold a COVID debate today and to hold a referendum debate tomorrow. This is our proposal, not to exclude anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U42	Thank you. The first half was not a procedural question. The other side was the proposal to change the time when the Prime Minister's political statement took place, it should come tomorrow, but it was wanted to exchange it for today. Do the other groups agree with this? Siim Pohlak, please! [[Voices in the hall.]] Siim Pohlak gave a hand-to-hand signal, as required by our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U43	Yeah, again, I don't agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U44	Thank you. This proposal, too, goes off the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U45	Just say, ladies and gentlemen, may we please stop messing around. We're here to serve the public. While you are saying that there is a corona crisis, there is an urgent need to act, this, looking at this stretch and what is happening here, sounds very insincere to me. Please, let's get to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U46	Thank you. Jevgeni Ossinovski, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U47	Of course it's procedural. But before the comment to Siim Pohlak: indeed, the next six hours have developed into a state of health to define the concept of marriage is the grotesque thing you are pushing for in the Riigikogu. But a procedural proposal. Since my first proposal was not supported, I propose, on the basis of § 54 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, to place the draft draft marriage referendum on Thursday on the agenda today. Then there's Santa Claus, he's going away, we're going to have some important discussions tomorrow, which are really about the health crisis. If on Thursday the mood is more relaxed, perhaps spending time on replacement activities is somewhat less grotesque.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U48	Thank you. If someone is stalling here so that the Riigikogu cannot deal with other important issues, it is unfortunately seen that this is precisely the opposition. However, since we have already voted to redeploy this item today, there is no need for this for the second time. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U49	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would recommend that the entire opposition read the Riigikogu Labour and Rules of Procedure Act. § 54 (1) states that the agenda for the next working week of the Riigikogu's plenary session will be announced to the members of the Riigikogu by the end of the working week. I don't think there's any argument about it being announced right now. Paragraph 54, third paragraph, provides that following the announcement of the agenda, it may be supplemented only if no political group objects. The question now is that, in fact, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has stated that it is not in favour of redeployment, exchange or any other procedural activities. Therefore, this burden on the President of the Riigikogu with pointless questions is not a procedural question you are currently asking. I therefore propose that this nonsense be stopped and that the procedural issues laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U50	Thank you. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U51	Thank you. I am simply saying once again that I do not agree with Mr Ossinovski's proposal to move this debate to Thursday.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U52	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U53	Hello! First of all, Mr President, you did not answer my question. The content of my question was not that if I voted against the agenda, what would happen then. I still think my voice's going down. My question was that if the Riigikogu Hall votes against the approval of the agenda, what happens next. Just if I may, I will tell Mr Grünthal, who said that we have not read the law of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure when we are in opposition, referring to it as the law of the Riigikogu's working and Rules of Procedure. Hey, he hasn't even read the title! He remembers it upside down.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U54	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. So, we can move on with the clarification and approval of today's agenda. Jürgen Ligi, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U55	I do have a procedural question. Can a member of the Board of the Riigikogu ask non-procedural questions, as one of them has just asked? Does he have a special right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U56	Do you have a special right? In my opinion, all members of the Riigikogu who are in this Chamber have exactly the same rights. But thank you! There are no further questions and we will go to the specification and approval of the agenda. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at the session of the Riigikogu tomorrow, or 15 December, about the situation that has developed in Estonia in connection with COVID-19 disease. Under the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, I have added this working week to the agenda of the Tuesday sitting and added the political statement of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas as the fourth item on the agenda. In addition, the Committee on Social Affairs has proposed to remove the fourth item on the agenda of the Tuesday session of this working week, the debate on the key national issue of the "Estonian Population Health Development Plan 2020 Kaja Kallas, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U57	As each political group can protest against the amendment of the agenda and the removal of this point, I say that we, as a Reform Party, do not agree with the withdrawal of the debate on this crucial national issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U58	This is the Commission's proposal and we are not voting on it here. But I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 11th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U59	Yes, I do have a procedural question. Since we have a different agenda on our tables, let's see what we're doing right. Our tables have been divided into agendas, where the Prime Minister's political statement has been introduced, but on Tuesday, the first item on the agenda. Therefore, we have in our hands [on the agenda] the fourth item on the agenda is the draft Act on Fire Safety and the amendment of other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic on Tuesday. What should we now exclude from this agenda on your proposal, either the Fire Safety Act or the important national issue initiated by the Social Committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U60	I guess you didn't listen well to what I read. I read out the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs to remove the fourth item on the agenda, i.e. the debate on a key national issue. That is what we are going to vote on now. Of course, you still have the old agendas that have not been voted on. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U61	Thank you. I'm so sorry. If you look at the schedule, we have a different schedule. Does the Governing Board operate according to its agenda? That's how we get this mess. We have a second point here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U62	Yes, they will be amended according to how we vote and adopt the agenda. Accordingly, new agendas will be printed and distributed to all of you. Now we are putting these changes on the agenda. Hanno Pevkur, please, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U63	Thank you. Mr. Chairman! You repeatedly told us here before that last week the Bureau approved the agenda. On this agenda, which you confirmed, which was distributed to the members of the Riigikogu and to which Mr Grünthal referred here, there was no political statement by the Prime Minister. The political statement by the Prime Minister has already been put on the agenda now on our tables, without our approval. You indicated that we would like to take out item 4 on Tuesday. Mr Saar also pointed out that the fourth point talks about the Fire Safety Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the fifth point talks about a matter of national importance, the health sector. Now, as Chairman, how do you propose to us this agenda here? One point on which we have not yet decided whether it is in is already inside, and one point that we have not decided to take out is also inside and wrong as you have read to us. Maybe you can make things right on the board, take it, I don't know, five or ten minutes break and put on a agenda that we can actually vote on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U64	Thank you. Of course, when the Bureau sent out the draft agenda, these things were not included, because your own statement that the Prime Minister would come to this Chamber came later. Now we are voting on all the changes that I have read to you here. We shall vote through them and, as the Riigikogu wishes, either reject them or approve them. I now vote on the Riigikogu plenary... In short, as President, I am also right if all these proposals and procedural questions go into the same gate, I have the opportunity to stop asking these questions. If you really do find it difficult to understand these proposed changes, I will say that a new agenda is now being printed. And to stop further aziotage, let's take... Five or ten minutes? We'll take a five-minute break, you'll get these agendas on your desk, and we won't deal with these issues again. Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U65	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 11th working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U66	There are 53 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, 46 against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U67	We go to the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on "Organisation of a referendum on the concept of marriage" submitted by the Estonian Central Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group and the Isamaa Group. Let me remind you of our rules of procedure. First, the report by the originator or his representative shall be up to 20 minutes, followed by a presentation by the representative of the commission, as well as 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to the rapporteurs. Then there will be negotiations, where only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Please welcome Siim Pohlak, member of the Riigikogu, as a waitress for the remote control of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U68	Hi! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! The purpose of this draft is to hold a referendum on the concept of marriage. According to the draft, the referendum on 18 April 2021 raises the question of whether marriage in Estonia must remain an alliance between a man and a woman. There are two options for voting: yes and no. I will talk a little about Estonia's current practice of using referendums. During the period of validity of the 1992 Constitution, there has been only one referendum in Estonia: in 2003 on the issue of entering the European Union. This is a regrettable trend, with the exception of the vote on joining the European Union, the people of Estonia have never been involved in the decision-making of matters of state life through a referendum. In my opinion, this shows that the power of the state in Estonia has been estranged for a long time. For those who love to compare or tend to compare Estonia with other countries, the fact that we are even far behind our Baltic neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania should be very eloquent. There have been eight referendums in Latvia during the same period and ten referendums in Lithuania, not to mention Slovenia or Switzerland. Married referendums have taken place worldwide in a total of 40 countries. So there is nothing extraordinary or strange about this. The referendum and direct democracy are one of the best ways to manifest democracy, showing trust and cooperation between the state and the people. If you come to the draft, the costs of the referendum included in this draft are of the same order of magnitude as the organisation of the Riigikogu elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U69	Good waitress! You have a lot of questions. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your report, you did not say much about the content of this question as to why it was needed. You focused on why a referendum could be held. I have a simple question, to which I would like an answer, and probably also the people of Estonia who are going to take part in the referendum. What is the point of this question? The background is that the Riigikogu has the right to put the bill or other state life issue into a referendum. If the draft law put to the referendum does not receive a majority of the votes cast, the President of the Republic shall announce extraordinary elections to the Riigikogu. Section 1 (1) of the Family Act tells us that a marriage is made between a man and a woman. Please explain that if the referendum is yes, what will happen after that. What's the coalition doing? Family law is still in force. Ain't nothing gonna happen again? If there is no, what are its results, are the extraordinary elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U71	Thank you. What happens if the answer to the public poll is yes? Then there's a limit. In this case, legislators are not allowed to change the family law without the consent of the Estonian people, or without a new referendum, for example, to legalise not only the marriage of men and women but also the marriage of persons of the same sex or the marriage of multiple marriages. If the answer is no, the right to amend the family law and, where appropriate, other related laws shall be retained. This does not mean, however, that there should be an immediate change. This means that regularisation of same-sex marriages or of multiple marriages is possible in the future without questioning it again in the referendum. And there will be no extraordinary elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U72	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U73	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You spoke so much about the importance of asking for the opinion of the people with such a blasphemy. But next to that, your bill's explanatory statement is a pretty skinny one. You have no substantive explanation of what is being done and why is being done and what is the result. You will be quoting Article 27 of the Constitution as one of the most remarkable things. But you won't tell me why you're quoting it and what you want to read out of it. Consequently, my question is as follows. According to § 27 of the Constitution, the family as a basis for the survival and growth of the people and society is protected by the state. In the opinion of the initiators of the draft, is the cohabitation of two adults of the same sex a family that is under the protection of the state according to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U74	Thank you. I will begin, a good questioner, by not understanding why the social democrats have so much hatred for this popular poll, so much hatred for finding out what people think. You indicated earlier that I should ask and that I had a patho on this subject. Yeah, I am passionate about that. In my opinion, very little has been asked for the opinion of the people in Estonia. It is a disgrace, and I am sad to see that the Social Democrats view it with such anger. But in the preamble to the Estonian Constitution it has been pointed out that the state of Estonia was created to last the Estonian nation, culture and language. The offspring are born in Estonia only in families of the same sex. Sorry, not in the same sex, but in families of different sexes, in marriage between husband and wife. It is therefore necessary to protect the marriage of a man and a woman in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U75	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U76	Thank you. This draft decision of yours is really laconic, and this whole thing is gonna be really messy. I was thinking, and I was hoping that your report would be a little more thorough to get answers, but nothing. There are a number of questions here in a row. Can a legally valid rule of law be put to the vote at all? Why is it even necessary to put the current norm to a referendum? And I ask my fundamental question: try to explain in a simple and understandable way what problem we are solving with this draft decision at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U77	Thank you. First of all, you can naturally ask about the law in force. As I said in my introduction, if the answer is yes, then simply the current situation cannot be changed without asking the people again for a mandate, without asking for it in the public poll. But if you ask why it is necessary at all, it is because it needs to be clarified on this issue. After all, many years ago, against the will of the majority of the people, the law of cohabitation was passed. There are stories with this law now as it is, but this subject has long polarized society. Now, for example, the Green Party has come up with the view that same-sex couples should also be allowed to get married. So this topic is still up, this issue is topical. I think you'll agree with me that this poll will bring clarity to this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U78	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have just answered Aivar Sõerd's question that there is still a need to ask about the law in force. We have much bigger problems in the country. Do you see that this is the right time to spend money on this referendum, or should it be put in the troubled places that we are in Estonia right now screaming?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U80	Thank you. You are asking whether this is the right time for this referendum. I think so. Of course, why should we pause democracy? I think this is a bit of a dangerous approach. Then political parties and interest groups in the run-up to local elections or in the run-up to the Riigikogu elections, which are the same forms of democracy as direct democracy in the form of referendums, could have the same story.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U81	Heljo Pikhof, please! It's not in the hall. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U82	You were talking about what happens when the answer is yes. I think that... Mr President, something is whistling here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U83	I can't hear you. Something's whistling.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U84	Yeah, something's whistling. Is there anything we can do to remove it from the whistle?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U85	Try it now!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U86	Well, let's try it again. In short, you said that if the answer is yes, then only by referendum can it be changed again. There's no problem with that, I guess. The problem is that § 105 (3) of the Constitution states that the decision of the people is mandatory for the state institutions. This means that, in accordance with their respective competences, the relevant national authorities must take steps to comply with the referendum decision. Thus, for example, it may be necessary for the Government of the Republic to prepare a draft law or to carry out other activities in order to achieve a specific objective. Failure to comply with a people's decision can lead to political responsibility. Similarly, the Code of Good Practice for Referendums approved by the Venice Commission states that there are three principles involved in the referendum: the power of the state must be impartial and must not affect the result of the vote by unilateral agitation; the citizens must be provided with objective information on the matter put to the vote; the matter put to the vote must be clearly worded and must not be misleading or guiding. Perhaps once again, if you follow the code of good practice for referendums approved by the Venice Commission and § 105 (3) of the Constitution, please explain the answer no. It has a very important weight in the way we are going on with this issue. If necessary, for example, for the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U87	Thank you, good questioner! Yes, you can do all kinds of intellectually interesting legal constructions and interpretations, as you have just presented here. Once again, the right to change the family law will be preserved in the event of an answer. Sometimes it may be that simple things tend to think too complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U88	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Have you understood what the division of this society of the opposition is all about in organising a referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U90	Thank you. I don't understand why the opposition is talking about splitting. It's just a propaganda exercise, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U91	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U92	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! To my request for clarification, the Chancellor of Justice replied, among other things: "The consequences of both a yes and a negative response must be determined precisely before the referendum, and it is also advisable to do so in the explanatory memorandum to the draft decision. There is currently no comprehensive analysis of the outcome of the referendum in the explanatory memorandum, which may give rise to a statement that a positive response could result from an unconstitutional consequence. " You also referred to the Law on Partnerships. How do you intend to ensure that people have a clear understanding of the consequences of one or the other? So where is this explanation in writing for people? There are currently very different versions in circulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U93	Thank you. I've seen the Chancellor of Justice's opinion, yes, but I didn't read it in any way to make anything illegal in the process we're doing right now. But when you specifically ask about the cohabitation law, I simply referred to the fact that this issue has long divided society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U94	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U95	Thank you. Contaminating the corona is on the upward trend. The government does not have a visible, substantive and clearly communicative plan to deal with this disease or, for example, to collect vaccines, unlike neighbouring countries. The loan to be granted next year alone will be higher than the total debt burden of all existing governments. What we are doing now will probably be the most vivid example in the textbooks of the future. But my question is that both you, Priit Sibul, the head of the Riigikogu sitting behind you, and Jüri Ratas, who participated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have publicly presented their version of what are the consequences of the hunt and what are not the consequences. If the four of you have not been able to understand these things in exactly the same way, how can the Estonian public and voters understand this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U96	Thank you, Mr. Clothes! Once again, I do not understand the opposition, including your resentment against popular polls, referendums, firstly. But I can repeat to you what happens in the case of a yes-answer, what happens in the case of a no-answer, so you can understand. If the answer is yes, legislators are not allowed to change the family law without the consent of the Estonian people, without a new referendum. If the answer is no, that right shall be retained. With regard to these interpretations that, together with this law, the Cohabitation Act, etc. (also referred to by previous questioners), I am simply saying that you should read the Coalition Treaty. It states very clearly that coalition partners have different opinions about the Cohabitation Act and no steps are taken on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U97	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U98	Thank you. Dear waitress, Paragraph 1 (1) of the Family Act states that marriage is to be concluded between a man and a woman, but the Constitution provides for the protection of the family. There are very different family models in Estonia, and children are also raised together. I ask you, as one of the spokespersons for the bill, which of the many different family models operating today have disrupted the founding fathers of the bill, as well as your current life arrangements? What is wrong with the way many people live today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U99	Thank you. But why would there be anything wrong? That is your argument, I do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U100	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Today we are forced to wear masks. Let's hope for the summer we get these masks out of the way. Today, however, the unprecedented thing happened that masks took away both the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, who revealed their true nature by classifying the people as such in a lower class, such as the Indian system. Why am I saying this? They have always spoken in their speeches and speeches about caring for the people and so on, they stand for the people, but somehow they forget that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the highest power is the people, and now the opportunity of the people to give their voices, to change the law completely is blocked. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U102	Thank you. There's nothing to comment on. Basically, I agree with you. My grandmother had a fridge magnet with a snail on it, and it says it's what counts. I think we need to look at what people do, not what they say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U103	Paul Woodland, please! Does Raimond Kaljulaid have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U104	Thank you, Mr President. I do have a procedural question. As far as I am concerned, the draft should discuss the general principles of the draft at first reading, but we have here Mr Grünthal and some others are using it for some reason to insult opposition parties. Is this in line with our rules of procedure? In my opinion, for example, Mr Grünthal's statement does not relate in any way to the draft law being discussed, does not relate to any of the points proposed, but merely to the creation of content for the New News. Is that legitimate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U105	Thank you. All members of the Riigikogu have the right to ask. That's how my answer ends. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U106	Thank you very much. Good waitress! First of all, I would, of course, like the opposition to understand now that the sooner we can resolve this issue, the sooner we can go to solving these problems, which they say are quicker, more important and more important, even to the COVID case. But I am pleased that the current responses have made it very clear that hunting and no meaning, hunting and no effect. I think that has been said three times already, that is very clear. However, what is not clear to me is: can the waitress say, can she perceive what is the main point, which is why the opposition certainly does not want to listen to the opinion of the people on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U107	Thank you. I think it fits into the pattern that we have only recently survived in this Chamber when the second pension pillar was wanted to give people their own decision and command. Similarly, the opposition fought to the last drop of blood. They themselves should tell us why they do not trust the Estonian people. In my opinion, all these approaches that this issue divides the society referred to by Mr Saar, albeit without any major justification, can eventually lead to dangerous structures that people are somehow ill. What happened in the 1930's as a result of these thoughts, I think, everyone in this hall knows.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U108	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U109	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable waitress! Following the opposition's response to the referendum currently under discussion, the view remains very clear that such important values should not be put to the referendum. But who, then, should judge such matters if not the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U110	Thank you. I am a convinced advocate of direct democracy. All I am saying is that I think there could be more polls in Estonia, more referendums.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U111	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U112	Mr. President! Honourable performer! The members of the opposition, as well as their paramilitic wing in the form of the press, love to talk about how, during the corona crisis, a subject such as the marriage referendum should not be addressed. And it is the same opposition and their journalistic allies who deal with it excessively, unconstructively and in a divided society. Do you consider such activities to be moral?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U113	Thank you. I'm sure you don't. The resolution of the health crisis, I think the opposition is referring to, is still being dealt with by the Health Board, not by the Republic Election Commission, which is going to hold this referendum. Rather, it is said that the referendum should now be abandoned, once again I say it is dangerous, it can lead to similar reflections in the future in the run-up to the Riigikogu elections, when there is an equally difficult situation in society. Very dangerous. If it were to be combined with the so-called hate speech law, which currently restricts freedom of expression, carried by the Reform Party, these are very dangerous tendencies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U114	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U115	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I'm a very traditional married man. When you submitted this bill, I tried to understand you. There is nothing wrong with the referendum itself. Unfortunately, it is very difficult to understand you because you claim that traditional marriage is in danger in Estonia. Come on, cut it out! I don't know any people, no forces in Estonia that want to lose a marriage between a man and a woman. Even those who want to extend the concept of marriage are not opposed to marriage between husband and wife. Good waitress, why are you lying? Why do you want to divide society? Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U116	Thank you. First, you put words in my mouth, but second, I ask you again why you are so angry with this referendum. Why are you so angry with me? This is a very important issue and the position of the Estonian people on this issue needs to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U117	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U118	President-in-Office of the Council. Honorable performer! It has been argued that Estonia's statehood and Estonian democracy tradition are too short to organise such referendums. This, of course, is probably the inferiority complex contained in this claim. As we know, there were four referendums between the two world wars in Estonia, during the time of democracy. However, it is true that Switzerland is one of the most prosperous countries in the non-divided land and the world, where referendums take place with great intensity. But Switzerland is indeed much older than Estonia from statehood. I ask: how can the country of Slovenia, where statehood is much shorter than Estonia, handle the most dense referendums in Eastern Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U119	Thank you. I believe that Slovenia is doing very well. Indeed, there have been many times more referendums there than in Estonia, on very different issues. Slovenia is also the highest Eastern European country in the Human Development Index. So I think Slovenia is doing very well and there is nothing wrong with society there. I see no problem as to how referendums could adversely affect Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U120	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U121	Thank you. You have stressed that you are convinced of the Democrat and, on the other hand, that you despise intellectuality. After all, in your nature, with your limited answers and avoiding arguments, you prove it. In this sense, everything is very sincere. It's just that you're underestimating the people. Is democracy and intellect compatible? But I'm asking you about your application. According to § 1 of the Family Law, marriage is a union between a man and a woman. You want an answer from the referendum to the question whether marriage is a union between a man and a woman in Estonia. How can this result be assessed? Does this mean that marriage does not apply outside Estonia? Or does that mean that it is not a union between a man and a woman outside Estonia in general? What's the legal construction? Now try to be intellectual.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U122	Thank you, Mr. Ligi! I think that, when it comes to the first half, often the questions are simply so directed and biased that it is not worth taking up the debate. [[A voice from the hall.]] No, but Mr. Clothed here before the government, just like you, you are not talking about the substance of the matter, you are just looking at different angles of how to make propaganda that this referendum is not necessary, is not right. Why do I have to respond to such propaganda? Ask substantive questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U123	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U124	Thank you. Good waitress...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U125	Excuse me, Mrs. Aart! Evgeny Ossinovski has a hand upstairs. I think he wants to ask a procedural question. Evgeny Ossinovsky's microphone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U126	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Could you enlighten the Riigikogu on this matter? The honorable waitress now said that she did not have to answer the questions she was asked. Among other things...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U127	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U128	That was a literal answer. Then there was a claim that the questions were not substantive. For example, I asked why reference was made in the explanatory memorandum...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U129	Thank you. This is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U130	... § 27 of the Constitution. This question was also left unanswered. Could you introduce to the Riigikogu how the representative of the initiator of the draft should answer the questions here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U131	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. The questioners [ask] and the respondents respond as they see fit. Merry Aart, please! I didn't finish the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U132	Yes, thank you! Good waitress! People are really watching this game here today. I've had quite a few messages, and that's why I'm asking, even though there's been some talk about it. Allegedly, nothing depends on the referendum, yet a huge no-campaign began immediately. There's always a counter-effect to every campaign, that's a yes-campaign. Overall, it is relatively resource-intensive. What would you say to us and to the people of Estonia? I have been asked to ask this: why is the opposition particularly afraid of the people of Estonia and their opinion? If that's the answer, you can't, but it's people's guessing. Why do we fear the opinion of the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U133	Thank you. If I knew that, it would be easy to answer. But I think it would be kind of statesmanly to consider the people in any case, even when there is going to be a public survey, where perhaps an unpleasant answer is coming from. In any case, the people should be allowed to speak, not to fight against the referendum, out of their fears.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U134	Jürgen Ligi has his hand up. Is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U135	Yeah. I'd like to understand your understanding of the procedure. You have said twice that questions and answers are free. The first time you said you could ask anything without commenting at all. Sometimes you said you could ask, and answering is your business. I asked a very substantive question, for example, just as Mr Ossinovski asked a substantive question. I asked what would be the benefit of a referendum that would only include the word "Estonia" in the current section. That was my substantive question. The answer was why he should answer. Please tell me if this corresponds to the idea of a parliamentary debate that the respondent answers substantive questions, which in this case was a legal question, simply with rhetorical cheers, pointing the finger, asking why he has to be there at all. What's your procedural understanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U136	Thank you. My understanding is very simple. I've said that many times. You reap what you sow. The first part of your question was insulting, demagogic, ugly. It's very strange if you really want a very nice and nice thorough answer. Look in the mirror, please! Rene Chef. Evgeny Ossinovsky's hand up again. Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U137	Thank you. As I understand it, your interpretation of the parliamentary procedure is that if, in your opinion, the method of asking the questioner is offensive or inappropriate, then you may not answer that question. Okay, we got smarter. I asked my question without any introductions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U138	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. Let's keep going. Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U139	Good President! Dear waitress, When I listen to this debate, I can imagine what a concern some people may have here. Next year the local government elections are coming up, and take a finger, maybe this person, the Estonian citizen can choose again. That's why I'm asking. Waitress, what do you think might be the cause of the great fear of opposition members, which is so frantic that worries that maybe a person can express his opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U140	Thank you. Fear is panicking, yes. And I'm gonna dodge for a second, I hope the questioner doesn't mind Mr. Near, either. A debate can be held on several levels. I could also have answered you essentially and before that, to note whether you were at practice when some ideas were shared. But I don't think that's the level we want here. Once again, however, the opposition's hatred of referendum and public involvement is visible, yes, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U141	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U142	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have an executive edition of the Constitution in front of me. My question concerns your answer, that nothing will happen if there are more no-answers. It states that § 105 (4) of the Constitution states that the President of the Republic shall announce extraordinary elections to the Riigikogu if the draft law put to the referendum does not receive a majority of the votes cast. And then, as a political sanction, the rejection of the law in a referendum will be followed by the announcement of extraordinary elections in any case. My question is this: if you claim that nothing will happen in response, what will you rely on, which legislative act?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U143	Thank you. Good questioner, there will be no extraordinary elections if the answer is no. I'm going to go over that again. The Chancellor of Justice has also spoken about this in his reply. If you haven't got it, I can send it to you after the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U144	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I generally support referendums. But the referendum, where nothing changes from the people's response, is the mockery of the people, the trampling of democracy and populist exploitation of the people. In the Commission, I asked if you would agree that the decision of the people is binding and that the law must be amended. I now quote: "Then Mr Pohlak replied that he did not agree with the interpretation of the L. West Forest. S.Pohlak said that there are many different ways of replying, which it could mean. It doesn't have as much meaning as it does when it answers. " Dear waitress, When voting, a person needs to know what the result of his step is. It can't be that we'll see later. That would be a mockery of the slavely people. Please list all consequences of the non-response!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U146	Thank you. Starting from the beginning: the fact that this is a survey that doesn't change anything is a lie. It's changing. Once again, it is clear that if the answer is yes, it will not be possible to change the concept of marriage without a new referendum. There are many different options for the 'no' answer, just as there were when we joined the European Union. For example, in the case of hunting, it was clear that we would be joining the European Union, but in the case of no, it would have been whether we were not joining the European Union, but whether we were joining Finland or doing something else, the question of the debate that is to come. Similarly, when it comes to same-sex marriages, multiple marriages, all these debates must take place. However, there is no immediate obligation to start adopting any legislation in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U147	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U148	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I'm gonna have to keep asking the question. The Chancellor of Justice has said that the results of the referendum are mandatory for the national authorities, whether that is a yes or not. You have explained today that if the answer is yes, the result of the referendum is yes, then the content of this commitment is understandable. The content of this obligation is that § 1 (1) of the Family Act cannot be amended without a new referendum. It's clear. What is absolutely not understandable, however, is what is the obligation that the participants in the referendum give to the national authorities if the result is no. What is the obligation that comes to the authorities if the answer to the question is no?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U149	Thank you. Once again, the negative answer opens up the possibility of initiating an extension of the concept of marriage in the family law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U150	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U151	Thank you. I'll ask you a little bit more about what Evgeny Ossinovski asked about. Article 27 of the Constitution says that the family is protected by the state, but it does not say what the right family is. Consider, for example, the latest census results: 34.5% lived with a legal spouse, 15.6% in a common-law relationship. Since 2000, the share of common-law marriages has steadily increased, and for the last 15 years, more children are born in Estonia than in legal marriages. If we make a referendum, as you say, and it will be binding from now on that the only right form of family is where there is a man and a woman, not only that, but that they are married to each other, legally married, then what about these other families? Are these families no longer under the protection of the Constitution? Do you think these families do not exist that they do not need constitutional protection or what happens to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U152	Thank you. Those were all your interpretations, I disagree with them in no way. Once again, if the answer is yes, the marriage between a man and a woman must remain enshrined in Estonian law until a different opinion comes from a new referendum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U153	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! You ask whether marriage must remain an alliance between a man and a woman in Estonia, and you say that [if there is an answer in a referendum] yes, you must stay and nothing will follow. The other option is, if no answer is given, then nothing will follow, but it may follow. I immediately have the question that marriage must remain an alliance between man and woman for how long, until next week, next month, next elections, or as long as, for example, the Greens get to the Riigikogu and propose to change the concept of marriage. I do, because of these two questions, what happens if the answer comes no, and what happens if the answer comes yes, there is no change in our lives after the referendum. Do you not think that this is a completely pointless waste of the time and money of the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U155	Thank you. Your discussion went awry from the very beginning. I've told you many times today what happens if they say yes. In this case, the Estonian people have expressed their very clear position as to how he sees the definition of marriage. This decision is mandatory for national authorities. Perhaps, in essence, we in this Parliament cannot begin to adopt the law on multiple marriages or to legitimise same-sex marriages. On the contrary, the word of the people has a very strong force when it comes to hunting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U156	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U157	Thank you. Good waitress! I will continue to ask where my colleagues have finished earlier. As mentioned earlier, the family is protected by the Constitution in Estonia. In the case of this draft, it is incomprehensible how you mentioned at the outset that the family is important for the Estonian people to be sustainable, which I very much agree with, but then (and I do not understand in any way) you will arrive at the fact that this most proper family model can be a marriage between a man and a woman. Especially when colleagues pointed out that more and more children are born from a common-law relationship, and so-called Estonia continues with the help of people living in a common-law relationship. I don't want to get personal, but it's going to be more absurd for me when I look at you guys defending this bill, but if I'm not mistaken, you're in a common-law relationship yourself, while you're talking about a traditional marriage. In this sense, it really does not make sense to me what concerns you are trying to resolve with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U158	Thank you. However, I am talking first and foremost about the referendum. But if you want to lower this debate and get personal, I can ask you why you are so fiercely opposed to the marriage referendum. Do you have any problems or problems of your own? I could also question whether you would like to enter into a polymarriage, for example. So we're going to the same level. I don't want this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U159	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U160	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The first part of my question is this: what law does the initiators of the draft believe that the rights of partners of the same sex must be guaranteed in Estonia? Perhaps also that § 27 of the Constitution says that the family as a basis for the survival and growth of the people and society is protected by the state. In the opinion of the three groups that initiated the draft, are two adults of the same sex living together a family that is under the protection of the state according to the Constitution? The two parts consist of this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U161	Thank you. The first half disappeared into a mask somewhere, maybe you could elaborate a little bit? Perhaps you can elaborate on the first half? I couldn't hear it. [[H. Pikhof responds from the floor.]] Thank you. I think you're drifting towards the law of cohabitation. I say once again that the coalition agreement clearly states that coalition partners have no consensus on the partnership law and no plans to take any action, no matter what the outcome of this referendum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U162	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U163	Thank you to the President of the sitting. First of all, good waitress, you have repeatedly indicated that all members of the opposition are opposed to the referendum. I can assure you: no, I am certainly not against it, the Constitution provides for such an opportunity, and I am certainly not against constitutional behaviour. But I do have a substantive question about this bill. I am very much asking for a substantive answer. You say that this vote is needed to protect families from potentially in the future someone might want to allow two men or two women to get married alongside a man and a woman, for example. Can you give me just one concrete example of how giving such a right to couples of the same sex harms families of different sexes? One example of how the situation of families of people of different genders would be worsened if the possibility of getting married by two persons of the same sex were indeed legalised in the Riigikogu, either in its composition or in any future composition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U164	Thank you. I think that we will wait for the result of this referendum, whether it is a yes or not, then we can hold further debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U165	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U166	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Good laws solve problems, bad laws create more problems. I do not see any problems that this referendum will solve, but I see a number of problems that it will create. I understand its purpose. Although such social institutions are constantly changing in culture, the concept of family changes, the concept of marriage changes, you want to freeze the concept of marriage. It's understandable. But you want to freeze it with the terms "man" and "woman," which is also constantly changing. You know, of course, the Carster Semenya case, two years of her sex. In many countries, sex can simply be exchanged with a statement. I was John Smith, and now I'm Jane Smith and please tell me the shee. This Jane Smith comes to Estonia and wants to marry, say, Jaan Oja. How do we stop him? How do we identify her sex?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U167	Thank you, Mr. Lotman. I think that, first of all, we do not want to freeze the concept of marriage, but we want to ask the Estonian people for a position. You say that everything in culture is changing, there are new discoveries, new things. But on the other hand, we cannot rush ahead of Estonian society. If Estonian society considers that marriage must still be a union between a man and a woman at the moment, then I think that we must all consider it as members of Parliament when we act in this society. I understand your approach. Ülle Madise has said that the part of marriages made abroad does not deal with this bill, at least she interprets it that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U168	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U169	Thank you very much. I just heard a moment ago the explanation of a good colleague, Lotman, about the constant change. I guess these constantly changing things are such revolutionary things. Sometimes it is that something changes in society very revolutionaryly and perhaps badly. But what still unites conservatives and traditional people is that they want more not revolutionary changes, but evolutionary changes. In this case, I have noticed the clues of some of our colleagues who speak freely, treating marriage as if it were a life together of some friends, two friends coming together, and they seem to be married. But marriage and family have a strong concept, mission, not just two people, one man and a woman, it is property, rights and obligations, it is related to continuity and children. These are things that go back to the past and to the future, they have very strong roots and are fast. It's kind of forgotten, people think it's a one-day question, just two friends get together and say it's married. It shouldn't be that simple. That's what we're fighting for. But the question is rather that the clue was about different forms of marriage. Indeed, there is a Christian marriage, there is an official marriage. Can a common-law relationship be regarded as a marriage within the meaning of this referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U170	Time's up, please respect the time limit!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U171	Thank you, Mr. Woodland! I basically agree with your constructions that you've built here and talked about. But I wouldn't dare say for sure about a common-law relationship right now. This is where we're talking about registered marriages.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U172	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U173	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm not angry. I'm about to have 30 years of traditional marriage with the same husband, three children born in a traditional family. I have now listened carefully to this debate here and I am back on the question Aivar Sõerd asked at the beginning. I'm still trying to figure out what kind of problem we're trying to solve right now in this hall. Perhaps I will clarify this question: can you explain who is attacking this institution of marriage today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U174	Thank you. Of course, your long marriage is worth following. But who's attacking now? Let's just say that the Green Party has called for a restructuring of the institution of marriage. Whether it could be called an attack, or I don't know, a revolution or progressive development, it comes from the perspective of the viewer. But there is always a need to live more modernly, to modernise laws, etc. I think, once again, that we must take into account the position of the majority of Estonian society on these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U175	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U176	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! There are few laws that take nothing away from anyone and only provide good for everyone. One of these is the Law on Cohabitation, which we adopted in 2014. The implementing provisions were still not adopted. I understand that even at the time the coalition agreement was signed, you had the wish that the cohabitation law be abolished, so that the draft that we have on the table is a compromise, that the cohabitation law will not be abolished, but then we will have some kind of crazy referendum. I ask you anyway: say even a personal opinion, even if you are not prepared to write it into the law, what happens to the implementing provisions of the Cohabitation Act if the answer to this referendum is yes, or if the answer to this referendum is no. Will the implementing provisions of the Cohabitation Act be adopted or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U177	Thank you. Mr. Randpere, I'm just answering again. Firstly, I do not agree that this is a crazy referendum. But I say again, read the coalition agreement. It says very well what happens to the law of cohabitation or what doesn't happen. It states that nothing will happen, because coalition partners do not share a common view on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U178	Signe Riisalo is missing from the floor. No, I'm not. I'm sorry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U179	Good manager! Good waitress! My colleague from the EKRE Group today asked in this Chamber what the opposition means by a divided referendum. You said you didn't know exactly, but it's probably propaganda. I'll help you answer. The answer is very simple. It is a principle of equal treatment. It is not possible for the majority to decide on minority rights. That's what divides society. Imagine now that there's a class where there's this kind of ordinary company, but then there's a boy who wins all the Olympics who's really good at studying, but he runs all the cross-country runs slower than the others, is almost shorter than the others and freckles. And if it's a class night, they're gonna ask in class if they're gonna agree that freckles can't come. Don't you think the situation is quite the same? We do not protect the weaker or the minority.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U180	Thank you. You reproached that the majority would decide on the minority. I understand that democratic social organisation may not be very suitable for you when you first spoke about this public survey here. I say once again that we are asking Estonian society for a position. We are not discriminated against, we are not teasing anyone to which you tried to refer in the emotional part of your question. Let the people of Estonia speak, he has not been able to speak for 17 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U181	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U182	Mr. Pohlak! You haven't realized that most people do decide all the time, but most don't have to decide those things that don't really matter to him, but the minority does. Deciding on minorities is sometimes undemocratic. You were actually offended by your own words here. I quoted you, basically. You took offense and didn't want to answer my question. But I would point out that such a poor explanatory statement or such a poor report has probably never been in this Chamber before. We didn't understand anything, we still haven't figured it out. Have you even considered the legal consequences of this bill? There should be a constitutional analysis of what happens in the case of a yes or no response. You did not answer the question of what will change if you add the word 'Estonia' to the current law, which the question you are proposing requires. Secondly, you didn't really say what would happen in the case of no or yes. One of your claims was that there's gonna be a new poll, but yes, it's gonna rock something up. Did you really think it through when you answered like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U183	Thank you, Mr. Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U184	Would you explain yes and no different effects, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U185	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U186	Thanks again! If you're saying that I'm offended by what I'm saying, you're putting it in some sort of sauce. You pour ice cream on top of the minced sauce and you say eat now. If I say yes again, there will be a limit. It will not be possible to change this position in the future without a new referendum. [[Voice in the hall.]] We are talking about Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U187	[[Voice in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U188	Good performer! Do you think it is possible at all that the issue here is not the main focus of the referendum at this moment on this bill, but that the opposition is afraid by a referendum to open Pandora's box at all, because it could trigger a much greater wave of popular democracy in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U189	Thank you. Absolutely agree with your approach, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U190	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U191	Thank you. If you force us to discuss this issue here in the middle of the corona crisis, then the assumption is that we will also get answers to legal questions. My penguin asked, referring to the legal consequences of a referendum, in the case of a referendum. I'll repeat my last question. If the result of the referendum is 'no' and the Chancellor of Justice has said that any result of the referendum is mandatory for the national authorities, why do these participants in the referendum oblige the national authorities if they give no in response? What comes with the 'no' response that is mandatory for public authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U192	Thank you. Once again, the negative answer opens up the possibility of initiating an extension of the concept of marriage in the family law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U193	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U194	Thank you very much, Mr President. I repeat the question of the previous speaker. What kind of obligation does a "no" answer to a state apparatus? Opportunity is not an obligation. What kind of obligation? For my part, I would also like to point out that the current family law has been amended more than ten times, including three times in 2014 and 2016. If the answer is yes, what year will it be, when can the family law be changed if you do not want to intimidate? You said you didn't want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U195	Thank you. If there is a 'yes' response in a referendum, this answer will remain valid until the next referendum that rejects this position. If the next referendum rejects it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U196	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U197	Honourable waitress! It's a long-prepared bill with an explanatory note for half of A4. There is nothing here about impact analysis, let alone legal analysis. You say on the remote, what happens if there is a yes, what happens if there is no, it really should be black in the white explanatory note. But my question is that there is no record here of how much it will cost to conduct this public survey and what line that money will come from. There's a lot of speculation about that. Please specify!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U198	It will cost approximately EUR 1.7 million to hold a referendum. [[A voice from the hall.]] No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U199	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U200	Thank you. Very respectable waitress! You have given the impression that a referendum is the only form in which the people can exercise the highest state power. But that's half the truth. The other half of the truth is revealed in § 56 of the Constitution, which says that the highest state power is also exercised by the people by the election of the Riigikogu. Why are you underestimating this side? They're totally equivalent. The same Riigikogu has adopted the Family Act, which clearly states that marriage is to be concluded between a man and a woman. My question to you is: will this wording also allow marriage in Estonia between two men or two women? I'm gonna help you out, and I'm gonna say, "No, I'm not." What's the problem? What problem do you solve when you confront different layers of society in Estonia? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U201	Thank you. I understand that the answer is not necessary. The questioner already answered, didn't he? But if you compare the Riigikogu elections to referendums, then we could open this debate so that open lists, closed lists, all of it. I'm looking at the look on your face. I don't think you want to bring this debate to that. Once again, yes, the marriage of a man and a woman is now mentioned in the law, but this situation may change at any moment. Looking at the collection of signatures and other things initiated by various social groups, this moment may be very soon. It is therefore responsible and reasonable to ask the Estonian people for a position on this matter, so as not to act as it did with the Cohabitation Act, which created two pages of the Estonian people and, in fact, keeps people on different opinions so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U202	Thank you. Now I'm taking the manager's break, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U203	Mr Riigikogu, the break taken by the President is over and we can continue the trial. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi has the order of the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Actually, there's a lot of porridge and cabbage here. But I would like to ask you if EKRE wants to claim that the family is only a man, a woman and children.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U205	Thank you. You're asking all kinds of questions about family. We are not actually talking about the family, we are talking about a referendum, we are talking about a referendum. I think we should stick to what is on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U206	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U207	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am, of course, in favour of democracy, of the voice of the people, of solving the real concerns of the people, and I am very disturbed by such a superficial or simplistic approach. Democracy is not about putting anything into a referendum. The process of reaching a conclusion that the issue is so important that it has to be asked by the people must also be democratic. What the people are saying could actually have a significant influence or direction on the long-term directions or goals of the Estonian state. The public could be asked about the nuclear power plant, about logging, even about the permanent transition to summer time, about health insurance, so that everyone should have health insurance. The question to be put to the referendum must be clear. Does the question of whether marriage must remain an alliance between a man and a woman in Estonia in any way preclude the marriage of people of the same sex? It doesn't rule out. Please try the analogy: must Estonia remain in the European Union? What does a yes- and what does a no-reply mean in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U208	Thank you. I am saddened, of course, again by the anger that came out of this issue against the referendum. [[Voice in the hall.]] It saddens me. But in this I agree with you that there are, in fact, a lot of questions to put to the referendum. However, as far as the defamation of this issue or the negative attitude towards it is concerned, I do not agree with you in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U209	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U210	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! You missed part of my previous question. You said that this survey would cost approximately EUR 1.7 million. What cost line has this been taken into account in the state budget? Is it true that this money comes from the government reserve? If this money comes from a government reserve, are these extraordinary expenses for which the government reserve is intended?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U211	Thank you. The answer to which line it comes from, I owe you right now. After the hearing, I'll get that answer and I'll be sure to send it. But I understand that this cost is like some kind of problem, that it's bad that we're going to make it. Why it's bad, I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U212	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! On the basis of your answers, as well as your partymates' questions, I understand that you believe that there is a problem in the opposition. When questions are asked about drafts, we are all angry and angry. It's not! And we are not afraid of referendums. Our problem is that this issue of referendum has been formulated incorrectly and it is not clear what the consequences are, and this is done at the wrong time. But I ask why you did not propose a binding referendum on the basis of § 105 of the Constitution, which in the event of a negative response would have meant the dissolution of the Riigikogu. Are you afraid?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U214	Thank you. As for being angry or the opposition being angry and evil, maybe I just gave you a good chance to taste your own rhetoric. When EKRE talks about protecting a traditional family, in which case we are always haters, we discriminate against the various minorities of all this. You've had a taste, I think, just your own approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U215	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U216	Thank you. In the Commission, you constantly answered the questions that the coalition agreement is like the ultimate and the coalition agreement is important. I am asking about this coalition agreement: how long did it take you to agree on its wording and whether there is any chance that this wording will change?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U217	Thank you. I really can't tell you in hours or days how long it took. And there is no change in the wording as of now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U218	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U219	Thank you. Very respectable waitress! You raised the rhetorical question of whether the traditional family was unprotected. I ask you, do I repeat from this wording, Article 1 of the Family Act, that marriage is concluded between a man and a woman, and you conclude that the traditional family is unprotected? And second of all, I'm gonna ask for more. You mentioned somebody might want to change it somewhere. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the same petition, which you probably do not like, which has received even 35,000 signatures, was just and only born in response to your referendum, because of this alone. If this referendum had not been planned, this petition would not have come either. So you let that genie out of the bottle yourself. In the end, what I am asking is that, in my opinion, is also controversial now, if you say that if this answer is yes, then it is imperative, so it can no longer be changed, if the answer is no, then you use the very soft expression that it creates an opportunity. I think they're out of balance. No-and-yes-results should be balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U220	Thank you. Firstly, I think it is very difficult to achieve this balance with every question. The same was true of the accession to the European Union. Then we were told all the time how one option was very important, very important, very weighty, and the other was kind of bad when we looked at the media at the time. It is difficult to achieve a balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U221	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U222	Thank you. If the historical enthusiasts of our children's generation look back on Estonia's politics in 2020, they will discover at least two percussions today: firstly, what the Estonian Parliament is dealing with at the height of the pandemic; and secondly, a referendum will be put to the question of which the debate in Parliament about its content or this issue, as such, will not be discussed at all. Because when members of the opposition try to ask about content and legal implications, you will parve these answers. And so far, I do not think there has been any coalition question that contained the word 'opposition', in the context that it would be appropriate for members of the opposition to be scolded. Aren't you afraid that with this legally questionable and superficially prepared referendum, organised at the worst possible time, you will completely devalue the referendum format?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U223	Thank you. Again, there is no agreement between your approach and the negative tone of the question. In my opinion, all these stories and statements that you are saying here about the referendum, that it is illegal and there are some contradictions, the malicious manipulation of society, in fact. The Estonian people are a very trusting nation, a benevolent nation and, unfortunately, they also blindly trust the various globalist media channels that draw your claims under the big headlines, even though they do not really have any content behind them. In my opinion, if you ask whether anyone here is hurting Estonian society right now, when our children or grandchildren look back on it, they see that it is more the current opposition with its behaviour. If you're asking who did it, you can say, "He did it."
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U224	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U225	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Well, I don't really believe it or bring it out here. At first, it did not like the referendum to take place on the day of the local elections, and now it does not fit again in April. There's talk of one, two, and three. But let's look at the essence. A referendum as an inclusion and an opinion from civil society is one of the most important options. Don't you see the sign of danger that maybe next, the opinion festival will not make sense and then the Foundation of Civil Society, will it? Because we have representative democracy and why do citizens have to make some NGOs when all people who can decide for themselves are represented in the Riigikogu? It's kind of creepy, some people call it a revolution. But the revolution never comes without blood. This is now at the expense of civil society. Do you consider such scenarios to be very logical? I understand that, as modest people, as conservatives, we are defending precisely those civil rights that are currently being tried to ridicule.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U226	Thank you. I agree, yes. I've put out worse scenarios myself. If it is said that it is not good to use the means of direct democracy, then at some point it may be said, let us say, about the second expression of democracy, or elections, that we are having a bad time for holding elections, it is not appropriate. Very dangerous discussions are what the opposition is launching here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U227	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U228	Thank you. Good waitress! You didn't answer my last question. I repeat this question: why did you not propose to hold a binding referendum that would not have meant the dissolution of the Riigikogu? Are you afraid?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U229	Thank you. There were different discussions in the coalition, and when the coalition agreement was concluded, it was already agreed on which direction this issue was going, and then it was discussed. Once again, that is the coalition's agreement, and that is the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U230	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U231	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As I understand it, you would like to put a question to the vote in a referendum, which is actually written in the law, in section 1 of the Family Act, it is black in white. I don't really understand if anyone's been telling me if you're planning to change it, tending to change it, or what the point of asking it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U232	Thank you. Mr Kivimägi also referred here to the fact that one of the petitions I mentioned above was born in response to this referendum. He said it wouldn't have happened otherwise. I, instead of Mr Kivimäe, would not put forward such resolute views that no one would want to redefine the concept of marriage in the future. Certainly these things will come, and since this is an important issue of value for society, the only correct solution is to ask over, to put down a sign from which to change the concept of marriage it is necessary to get a new mandate from the Estonian people through a referendum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U233	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U234	Thank you. Dear waitress, We are not afraid of a referendum, but a referendum on marriage would mean that there was something very wrong with marriage. At the same time, couples say yes to each other when they get married. Now the people have to say yes or no. My question: will the yacht in the referendum cease to be different family models? That question sounded before, but you didn't answer. Aren't you afraid that by referendum, marriage as an institution will fall in value? Where's the love?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U235	Thank you. Certainly, the concept of marriage does not fall in value. We disagree on that. We do not interfere with people's privacy; they can continue to live as they please and like.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U236	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U237	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Why did you not have the courage to put this issue to the vote as a draft law, which would have resulted in a much clearer and much stronger outcome? Didn't you have any voices, or were you afraid of the government falling?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U238	Thank you. The lack of courage is, of course, your assessment and you have every right to do so. But today, this is a question in this form before you, and it was best to put it to the vote as a matter of other state life.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U239	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U240	Thank you! Good waitress! I don't know if I've misunderstood anything. After all, marriage is primarily a private matter, and whether or not I am married is entirely my personal matter. The question is whether a private question can be put to a referendum and called a question of state life.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U241	Thank you. However, the concept of marriage is defined in different laws, and I think it is a very constitutional issue. I understand from your point of view that all the other 40 interviews on marriage that have been in other countries of the world are somehow suspicious or doubtful.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U242	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have, of course, chosen a rather comfortable position in the coalition. These answers reflect exactly that if there is a yes, they will be cut into stone, but if there is no answer, then we do not know what we are going to do. This actually shows what I think is the greatest weakness of this inquiry, as you look at it. But the second question I wanted to ask you is that, since you have put the very personal and personal values and attitudes to the vote, do you not think that this will weaken the institution of marriage, precisely because you have raised the issue of so-called hatred and war with your draft? This actually shows that the sense of democracy is quite primitive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U244	Thank you. The ax of hatred and war was still thrown into the air by the adoption of the partnership law. I also replied to Mrs. Stone earlier that I do not think that this popular survey is somehow weakening the concept of marriage.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U245	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U246	Thank you very much. I come back to my last question. You said, in answer, that values are what the people need to be questioned and cemented. I think that there are other values in the law that can be asked over, spending time and resources, as well as polarising society. I don't think that's quite right. But I ask whether, with this referendum in its form, if you are asking for the black in white in the law, the Pandora Box will not be opened. For example, we may ask whether traffic should be on the right. And if we get the answer in a referendum, what are we going to do? Even now, what are we going to do with no answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U247	I don't think this comparison with traffic is going to make any difference here. These are not two comparable issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U248	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U249	Good manager and waitress! The world is changing and it may seem that some are such Taliban brothers and others are such progressive ones. But here's what I'm gonna ask you. My point is that marriage must remain a union between a man and a woman. But in the world, you all know that Lady Amanda married a terrier in Croatia, married a dolphin, a Ferris wheel, a young man even wanted to marry a computer, but he couldn't. Why such freedoms? Why does our Parliament discuss such matters, in fact, could marriage be something else, someone else could [be married]?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U250	Thank you. The world is written, and you read the various ways of getting married. Of course, all sorts of crazy things happen in the world. I don't know if we should stop at it for a while. I think that in our own small Estonian country we could try to keep the people as involved as possible in decision-making, which means more referendums. Secondly, decisions concerning such society and values should definitely be coordinated with the people of Estonia, say if we want to know something about the issue of marriage. There's a lot of stuff here. There are quite a few preconditions in the Reform Party Group for supporting direct democracy. Here they also offered various questions before they could be asked. So I think that we may finally agree that more direct democracy is needed in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U251	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U252	Good manager! Good waitress! Much of your bill's explanatory statement speaks of the Constitution. In this debate, you also often refer to the Constitution and to it as if marriage was protected by the Constitution. You are probably aware that § 27 of the Constitution does not even mention marriage, but talks about family and about children, parents, helping members in need. In other words, the family is under constitutional protection. Clearly, marriage and family are not the same concepts. Do you not want to narrow down the concept of family with this debate and this referendum? If you don't want to, why do you keep bringing the Constitution into play when we're talking about marriage? This debate has nothing to do with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U253	Thank you. Our aim is to conduct a public survey on marriage, as is written in black in this bill, and there are no other motives which are attributed to us here that I cannot confirm.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U254	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U255	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My first question today was what is the result of this referendum. This has been asked later, but this understanding is not quite common. In your answers, you make a lot of reference to the coalition agreement. I took it. It says here that we are conducting a referendum on the proposal to complete the Constitution as a matter of other state life, defining marriage as an alliance between a man and a woman. § 163 of the Constitution states that the Constitution can be amended by a law adopted in a referendum. My question is why you do not abide by the coalition agreement and why you do not respect your pledge to the electorate to change the constitution. There are appropriate arrangements for this, as a result of which there are certain consequences. Why are you not fulfilling your promise, and why are you violating the Coalition Treaty?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U256	You probably do not have the experience of coalition in the Riigikogu yet, although we are both fresh members of the parliament. The coalition had different opinions on when and how to hold this referendum. Searching for compromises, I think, is very important in politics. On the contrary, there is no good practice, there is a need for more cooperation, more compromises, as was the case here today in the implementation of the sitting. I am pleased that within the coalition there is a willingness to compromise from the side of the Conservative People's Party, from the side of the Centre Party and from the side of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U257	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U258	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, You have repeatedly said here that it is as if the opposition did not want to accept the constitutional possibility that referendums could be held in Estonia. I assure you once again that I, too, as a member of the opposition, have in no way questioned the possibilities offered by the Constitution. But you, in turn, are talking about involving the people, talking about direct democracy. At the same time, we know that on this issue, and at this point in time, the people have said in all the recent polls that they do not think that this referendum needs to be held. Most are against such a referendum. Do you think you should be involved by force? Do you think it will be good for the development of direct democracy if people are forced upon referendums that they do not want?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U259	Thank you. I'm quoting the results of the research company Norstat's survey. The period from 17 November to 23 November was discussed and asked about participation in the referendum. It was asked that if there was a referendum next Sunday on whether marriage should remain an alliance between a man and a woman in Estonia, would you take part in the vote? 75% of respondents would have taken part in the referendum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U260	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U261	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm trying to ask a very friendly and happy question so you don't blame me for being evil. I certainly am not. I certainly think that people need to be asked about things that really matter to them, which they can also influence with their voice. The coalition agreement has been quoted here on several occasions. We are in a situation where 58% of people have said that this survey is irrelevant, and over the last day, 3985 samples of the corona virus were analysed in Estonia, of which the primary positive was 331, and over 300 people needed hospital care. Those are actually the questions. Even if today's debate had been on the agenda, there should have been a second point in the debate on the situation of the kroon virus in Estonia, what to do and what to do together. But I want to ask you this: don't you think this is a rather inappropriate situation in which we are?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U262	Thank you. Once again, democracy cannot and must not be paused. It's a dangerous approach. If you refer here to the opinion of the people, I hope and understand that the Social Democrats have also abandoned their plans for obstruction, because most people in Estonia do not consider it reasonable what you intend to do with these amendments. So I understand you've come to your senses about this, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U263	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U264	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I will try to ask the same question in a more friendly and simple way. Would you explain how, in your opinion, the term "family" of the Constitution and the term "marriage" of the Family Law relate to each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U265	Thank you. Once again, we are talking about a public survey here, and we want to ask you about the concept of marriage.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U266	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U267	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Just as politicians try to understand the people, so politicians try to understand each other. I am trying to understand whether this 'today' debate on the referendums of which you are a believer could be found in a sequel. While I listened to this debate, I found a post on the European Union by Helle Kullerkupu, vice-chairman of the Pärnu City Council, belonging to the EKRE. And it goes: "Shame on you, the rulers of Saarde municipality: did the freedom fighters give their lives for the European Federation? " He basically says that by raising the enslaving flag in front of the monument to the War of Independence of Saarde parish, the Estonian flag law is being violated. Do you think there will be a follow-up to the next referendum to step out of the European Union? Or what is going on in your party in this sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U268	Thank you, Mr. Metsoya. It is a great pleasure to see that you are so passionate about Pärnu County. There could be more passion for dealing with local affairs. But no, I do not have the information that the coalition is already planning some of the next referendums, not even on the issue you referred to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U269	Yes, Mr. Ossinovski, is it a procedural question? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U270	Thank you, Mr President. On several occasions, the rapporteur has failed to answer questions by saying that we are talking about a public survey here. I know that there is also such a concept in the Local Government Organisation Act. Can you tell the Riigikogu what we are talking about today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U271	I can tell you. We are talking about a referendum, Mr Ossinovski. Clearly, there is a bit of a nerve in being here in the Riigikogu board with such a weighty bill. I think, in a human way, you understand me. But we are, of course, talking about a referendum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U272	Yes, I also assure you for the verbatim report that we are talking about a referendum. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U273	Thank you very much for your previous answer. 58% of people consider this issue irrelevant. The percentage that you have said that 75% goes to vote, but you don't know how they vote. Did you have a discussion in the coalition because it is a topic you have been put to debate, perhaps the subject of informal care, and that children and grandchildren should be freed from this slavery that concerns nursing homes? Did you have that kind of discussion about the coalition treaty? I'm sure you were involved. I remember before the local elections, you made very big promises on this subject. That's a real problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U274	Thank you. There have, of course, been discussions on what you raised at the end of this debate. As far as these percentages are concerned, these polls are different, different. You said you didn't know what the answer was yet. I don't think that's the answer that matters. Whether yes or no, the main thing is that people are willing to participate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U275	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U276	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I may have a question that goes a little further. But if we are going to hold a referendum, it can be assumed that there will be a campaign for this referendum. If the electoral campaign is relatively clearly regulated in Estonia, how political parties can be funded, so that foreign countries or other organisations do not intervene in our electoral campaign, so that our political parties are financed by the people living here, not by companies, and that is all public, then how is the funding of the referendum campaign? Do you think that, for example, if we go to the organisation of this referendum, should we also change other laws or reform something? For example, if some kind of foundation wants to participate in this campaign as a party, should it receive donations from the Estonian people only and should they be public?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U277	Thank you. I think it's worth discussing. I think that the coalition should also give serious thought to how this would be transparent and correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U278	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U279	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Honourable waitress! It is clear that if, in a referendum, the answer is yes, it will be set in stone in the Constitution, and no government will be able to pry so easily. The question, however, is why there is such a confrontation. Since I have received a lot of messages, I will briefly summarise this assessment. First of all, getting the money from the pandemic into Estonia was linked to hate speech, migration law and same-sex marriage. That is exactly what has happened, because today the Reform Party and the Social Democrats are standing up for these principles, or they are trying to defend these values. Let us remind you that a moment ago, the Reform Party presented a hate speech law here. The opinion of the people was that the Social Democrats and the Reform Party were implementing a plan for the federalisation of Europe, which in the long run is actually putting Estonia's independence at risk. How do you comment on this popular opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U280	Thank you. A lot of different topics had been highlighted here. With regard to the hate speech law, I also mentioned earlier that, when we look at it in conjunction with the story that we should "pause" due to the corona virus of democracy, cancel the public poll, not deal with it, it is dangerous, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U281	A microphone for Mr. Kruus, please. A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U282	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have a line or a technical question. My colleague said that after the 'yes' word, it would be carved into the Constitution. Are we still talking about the same thing, or is it different? Would you confirm that my colleague was wrong or what this is about?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U283	Well, that wasn't a procedural question. What do colleagues think? Well, they can think anything. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U284	Good waitress! There are many different family models in Estonia: there are people living in a common-law relationship, there are single parents with children, there are same-sex couples, there are traditional marriages. Why are you opposed to all Estonian families having confidence in the future and legal clarity, protection? Why does part of it have to be lost? What are they guilty of?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U285	Thank you. We're not against anyone. It's your approach, once again from this series, when we get hate speech and it's all over us all the time. We don't mind. But marriage as an important social institution needs, I think, right now this interview. The Estonian people should say whether or not marriage must remain a union between a man and a woman.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U286	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U287	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I'm confused. Before it was like that if the answer is yes, then it is quite clear what will happen, but the problems and certain uncertainties are when the answer is no. Now, when I heard the opinion of our colleague, Grünthal, I realized that there are also major differences of opinion in the case of 'yes'. You said something completely different than what Mr Grünthal had understood. Which, then, is right, and how must we understand this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U288	I think that Mr Grünthal may have inadvertently erred. I've lost my nerves in the remote today in a few words, and I messed up the children's question at first. So I think Mr. Grünthal was wrong here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U289	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U290	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! The referendum is designed to ask whether a marriage should be between a man and a woman. I don't know if I've understood anything [wrongly], but the Social Democrats and reform parties are talking, and Imre Sooäär is also talking about some family models, different family forms. I do not know if I have misunderstood that we are still talking about this vote on the subject of marriage.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U291	Thank you. I cannot comment exactly on what they have understood or how they have understood it, but I think they are trying to draw the debate as wide as possible. Unfortunately, the task of the opposition in Estonia is to mislead and sometimes, with various propaganda methods, to create misconceptions in people, as if this bill were something unconstitutional, something bad, something that must not be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U292	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U293	Thank you, good manager. Good performer! Much has been said here today about marriage, values and relationships between people. Do I get it right that you're not married? If you're not married, why aren't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U294	Thank you. Once, the debate went to such a personal level. I don't know if you'll be satisfied with that answer if I say yes, I've had a long plan to propose to the mother of my children as my husband. This remote control is spoken to the Estonian people, so maybe I can talk to my spouse. I was gonna ask you this for the holidays, but I can ask you here right now. [[The excitement in the hall.]] Dear Renate, if you're watching this broadcast! [[Let's hear it.]] You've given birth to three very sweet and wonderful children in our family. Will you marry me? I'm not going to get down on my knees behind this remote control, because then I won't be heard or seen again, but at home I'll do everything in order and duty. I planned this thing differently, but I don't want my marital status to discredit this good bill. Once again, I will ask Renate, my wife, this question, and I believe that there is no further need to deal with it today, because I had planned it anyway. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U295	Thank you. Colleagues, you can see the strength of the word on the question of a member of the Riigikogu. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U296	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You tried to attack the opposition in the first half of your answers with an "agreed talk" point that we were afraid to hear the voice of the people. You were, of course, on your own back, because you really do not want to put the draft into a referendum, which could depend on something that has unambiguous meaning, such as supplementing family law, should not even complement the constitution. That would be absolutely unambiguous in meaning and effect, but of course with greater contributions, because if the people say no, Parliament will disband. It proves that since you don't want it, it's this kind of arapulistism. But therefore, I have a question. Why is it that 56% of people do not consider this referendum to be necessary? I ordered the same poll from Norstat on the same date, and it showed that 56% of the people did not consider it necessary. Why is that, could you give your assessment? Haven't people figured it out yet, or are they prioritising other things and you trying to talk them out of it? Why is it that most people don't support?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U297	Thank you. First of all, thank you for this sentimental and statesmanly introduction. But I haven't seen the poll you've been referring to, so I'm not taking this slippery path to comment on it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U298	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U299	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Many times today, you have been asked what will happen on one occasion or another after this referendum. You have given various answers, these have been your oral answers. However, as it was a moment ago to hear about Mr Grünthal's question, you do not have a common position in the group, which will happen in one case or another. Perhaps it would be wise to interrupt the first reading of the draft, then you will add both the draft and the explanatory statement specifically, what will happen when it comes to yes, what will happen if it does not, and you will come back to the hall. Today, we do not know what we are voting on here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U300	Thank you. I have already pointed out that Mr Grünthal may have been simply dealing with the word confusion that has probably occurred to all the ambassadors. No, I don't think it's wise to cancel the first reading. You are saying that Estonia is in a difficult situation. I think we're going to move forward with this bill, and we're going to be fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U301	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U302	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! You asked for substantive questions, I think there's been a lot of them here. However, there have been not many substantive answers. That is why I too am forced to repeat Mr Jürgen Ligi's question. Please specify what the word 'Estonia' means on this issue of referendum. Can we also ask about another country or what it is added to it and what it means in this context?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U303	I think that, since it is a question of Estonian legislation, this "Estonia" makes perfect sense in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U304	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U305	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! The Reform Party and the Social Democrats here have indicated that many people want to live together freely without getting married. For the sake of the stenogram, please clarify: does this poll make it compulsory to get married?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U306	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U307	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Let's keep going. I would like to ask the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Anti-Poland Forest, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U308	Good manager! Good ambassadors! I present the debate of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concerning the draft decision of the Riigikogu on "Organisation of a referendum on the concept of marriage" initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group and the Isamaa Group. The debate took place on 26 November at an extraordinary meeting of the Commission. Mr Anti Poolamets, Mr Kalle Grünthal, Mr Kaja Kallas, Mr Lauri Läänemets, Mr Tõnis Mölder as alternate members, Mr Hanno Pevkur, Mr Martin Repinski, Mr Taavi Rõivas and Mr Priit Sibul as alternate members took part. What were the most important topics? The topics were repeated in the discussions. You've had a pretty long overview of them today, based on what was asked to Siim Pohlak. So it was very much about the binding nature of the result of the referendum, the consequences, especially the result of the 'no' response, and other questions. I will give an overview of not so much the messages of Siim Pohlak, but the discussions and questions in the Commission, so as not to repeat too much. Kaja Kallas first wondered whether the question of important state life could even be asked about what had already been written in the law. Mr Pohlak replied that the draft that had been initiated did not suggest that the Constitution be amended, but that the opinion of the people should be established through other matters of state life. Kaja Kallas repeated his question on the subject that the Constitution states that a referendum can be asked about a draft or other matter of state life, but if a question already in law is written, he believes that the consequences should be quite different. According to Kaja Kallas, the question should have been put to the referendum as a draft law and, if this did not work, extraordinary elections would have to be the result. Taavi Kõivas also doubted whether such a question could even be put to a referendum as a matter of other state life. In clothing, the initiators asked about the consequences: if the people answer the question put to the vote yes and if they say no, are they both binding? Mr Pohlak explained that as a result of the referendum, the position of the majority of the population will be known, and if the people say no, politicians will have the opinion of the people, and if political will exists, different steps can be taken. In the opinion of Pohlak, the will of the people is a clear guideline for Parliament. This message was also in response to the question of Mr Rõivas, who wanted to know whether the issue of the referendum was legally binding. Lauri Läänemets' view was that it was possible to put the issue of other state life into a referendum and that the result must be binding on Parliament. He also wondered why the issue of putting the question to a referendum became a matter of other state life. Lauri Läänemets was also dissatisfied with the overly laconicity of the explanatory statement. He felt that the people were also going to choose from what was written in the explanatory memorandum, and he felt that there was no legal effect if yes and no answer was given. In Siim Pohlak's view, the important information is entirely in the explanatory memorandum. According to Kalle Grünthal, the family law states that marriage is to be made between a man and a woman. As the issue of regularising same-sex marriages has arisen, it has created tensions in society, and that is one of the reasons why a referendum is absolutely necessary. Taavi Kõivas considered that all the consequences of any referendum must be understood by the decision-makers. People need to know that if they vote yes, what happens then, and what happens differently in the case of no-answers. In his view, the consequences of the referendum on the 1992 Constitution as well as the vote on Estonia's accession to the European Union were quite clear. Lauri Läänemets' position was that if the people say no, the law must be amended, and same-sex couples must be able to get married. He wanted to know if the drafters were of the same opinion. Pohlak said that this is an interpretation of the West Forest that he does not agree with. The anti-Semimets asked the representative of the initiators whether the cohabitation law adopted in 2014 and the subsequent legal confusions were, in the opinion of the rapporteur, the motivation that brought the referendum on the agenda in the coalition negotiations. Siim Pohlak explained that one of the main motives was that this issue had been long-standing in society and polarised society. According to Pohlak, the crack in society began with the Cohabitation Act. He hoped that a referendum would help to bring peace for a while. Mr Pevkur asked whether the drafters confirmed that this referendum had no impact on the cohabitation law, and the EKRE Group did not interpret it in such a way that the cohabitation law could be repealed as a result of the referendum. Mr Pohlak explained that the answer was given by the Coalition Agreement, which states that there is no common position with regard to the Cohabitation Act and that that law does not deal with the Coalition. Mr Pevkur also wanted to know whether Mr Pohlak felt that the people needed to understand what he was answering and what the legal consequences of the referendum were. In the opinion of Pohlak, the issue of referendum is clearly worded. To understand the current issue, no one should have a problem. Mr Pevkur confirmed that he agreed with the drafters: if the people say yes, a referendum is needed again to amend § 1 of the Family Act. But when the people say no, he feels that there are no legal consequences. Pevkur asked the rapporteur whether Siim Pohlak had seen a wish to amend § 1 of the Family Act in parliamentary proceedings or in the electoral programme of a party. Mr Pevkur himself replied, explaining that, to his knowledge, such a draft had not been the subject of proceedings. He also asked the rapporteur to explain how it interpreted the concept of "other matters of state life" in the Constitution and asked whether state life was a private life for people. According to Pevkur, the issue of state life does not normally concern citizens' relations. The rapporteur replied that marriage was reflected in different laws, and therefore it is natural to ask about it in a referendum. Mr Pevkur asked whether, in the view of the performers, the referendum had sufficient legal force for both yes and no responses, and also when the people decided to boycott the issue. According to the rapporteur, the Estonian people have sufficient will to participate in such important matters of state life. Mr Läänemets examined whether the opinion on which the draft was based was also given in writing by the Chancellor of Justice and whether the members of the Commission could be consulted. Mr Pohlak explained that the Chancellor of Justice had been consulted, but there was no written opinion at the time. Mr Pevkur pointed out that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had to explain in plenary what the consequences of the negative response to the referendum would be. Kalle Grünthal said that he did not agree with Pevkur's reasoning that the issue of the referendum was unclear. No answer means that the possibility of other forms of marriage is also open. Mr Pevkur explained that the principles for referendums approved by the Venice Commission had stated that the question to be put to the vote had to be made clear and should not be misleading or guiding. Mr Pohlak reiterated that he felt that there were no problems with the clarity of the matter. Lauri Läänemets pointed out that § 105 (3) of the Constitution provides that the decision of the people is mandatory for the state institutions, and therefore it is necessary for the Government of the Republic to prepare a draft law to that effect. For if there is no answer, it must be known early on what the Government of the Republic will do in such a case, and it must be certain that the will of the people who took a negative view would be expressed in this draft. According to the West Forest, in its current form, it is not possible to put the matter to a referendum because it is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. Hanno Pevkur explained that it was possible to challenge the decision of the referendum in the Supreme Court and expressed the hope that the Chancellor of Justice would go to the Supreme Court with this decision. The anti-Semimets gave examples of comparative law and noted that Estonia has used the referendum option much more modestly than other countries. Thus, since 1992, Latvia has held eight referendums, and 40 referendums have taken place worldwide to define the concept of marriage. Just as judicial proceedings help to get conflicts out of society, referendums help to do so. Mr Läänemets had to be invited to the Commission's meeting by the Chancellor of Justice. This idea was supported. As procedural decisions, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 14 December, with a consensus within the Commission, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for proposing amendments be set at 30 December. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U309	Thank you. You have questions too. Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U310	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, One indicator of the quality of marriage is the happiness of marriage. Marriage happiness is generally seen as a very strong indicator of the quality of marriage. This is correlated, among other things, with indicators such as the presence of children in the family, family incomes, economic coping, general well-being, such as health, religiousity, as well as a network of family and friendships, etc. Did the Commission discuss the possible outcome of this draft referendum in the context of marital happiness?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U311	Thank you for a good question, but this was not discussed. We focused on legal problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U312	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U313	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! I am not really going to raise these issues again, which we have already been through in the Commission. Rather, the question is that it is the task of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to ensure that the issue put to the referendum is constitutional and, above all, legal clarity is guaranteed. But we understood, both today and in the Commission, that there is a legal issue, or at least there is a feeling that this is a dead end and the draft only serves a political purpose. Similarly, this bill does not add the Estonian people in any way, but rather divides them. The biggest problem is the consequences. Perhaps this question does not give rise to an equally regarded effect in the case of a 'no' and 'yes' response. But this, in turn, is contrary to the purpose of the authors of the Constitution in dealing with the conduct of a referendum. Can you allow here, as chairman of the committee, that when the first reading ends today as a result of the coalition road roll, as chairman of the committee, you will ensure that we examine all the amendments to this draft and all the amendments to it very thoroughly and will try to ensure that this issue of referendum is legal clarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U314	I promise that we will ensure this legal analysis and make a legal analysis of the draft amendments. I am concerned about the organisational nature of the amendments, and I am seriously concerned about the future of Estonian parliamentarianism. Our legislative action will not be particularly serious if thousands of empty amendments are tabled. I am concerned not only about this particular case, but also about what will happen in the future. That is why I call on my good colleagues not to run the work of the representative of the people, because it may happen again tomorrow and it will start to happen again. It's your responsibility. If one day the coalition changes and 50,000 amendments are tabled for each bill, I would not like to take on such a burden from a very large printer to issue bag-fill proposals with different dates of entry into force. I dare say that I am not going to make such proposals, even if some such obstruction has to go through. I have enough respect for the work of our Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U315	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U316	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Anti! I saved one of my questions specifically for you. Even if you weren't discussing it in this exact wording in the committee, perhaps you will answer me in terms of old friendship. First of all, I want to fix you and Siim Pohlak. You told me what would happen if we did, and you always referred to the coalition agreement. According to the Coalition Agreement, you actually make an amendment to the Constitution after the yes-reply. That's the deal. So it seems that the coalition agreement can still be modified to some extent. You have not agreed in a coalition agreement that you will do nothing with the law of partnership. All you've said is that you don't have a consensus. I asked Siimu the same question. Now even the members of the coalition are going to say that if a 'yes' response comes in a referendum, we will adopt the implementing provisions of the Cohabitation Act, if there is a 'no' response, then we will adopt the implementing provisions of the Cohabitation Act. My question is, are they lying, are they stupid? We're talking coalition partners. Or are they just fooling us and the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U317	That's a very good question. I see that this referendum process has a vivid effect. The easing influence in several directions: these important issues will be discussed, and this will also be exciting for the coalition partners. Even because the law of cohabitation remained in the air between the earth and the sky, the receivers were unable to adopt implementing acts, and such a mysterious law still poses problems in the legal system. I believe that the planned referendum will make a great contribution to removing it from the stalemate. I think we are following the coalition agreement, and we will not open this up in this composition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U318	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U319	Honourable President! Dear waitress, Your colleague, Siim Pohlak, has admitted that he is under a great deal of pressure in this remote control. After all, the evidence was that he was forced to propose. Does your group intend to have a few more such proposals made in connection with the procedure of this draft law in order to be more credible? But the second question, of course, is much more important. What do you say to people who have been married for over 30 years? What good or value or love will they gain, or whatever else, because you are prepared to put this question to a referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U320	To answer the first question briefly, this was the most beautiful moment in this Chamber that I have witnessed. I don't want to go into the second question because I don't want to spread the hall with personal opinions. I would like to stick to what has been discussed in the Commission and not get into it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U321	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U322	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am asking with the aim of clarifying what is the concrete result if the referendum's answer should be no. Listening to the presentation of the draft presidents in the previous round, I didn't get much clarity. The referendum on the Commission's debate that you presented also indicated that other steps could also be taken, that the Members of the Commission had different interpretations. There was, for example, a referendum on accession to the European Union, but there was a very clear result: if the answer is yes, then Estonia is in the European Union, if there is no, then Estonia is not in the European Union. Can you maybe tell me what this is one of the concrete consequences of which is mandatoryly, I insist on following? Not that what can be done if the result of the referendum is no.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U323	The Chancellor of Justice has best answered this question in his letter to Mr Kiisler: "If, in a referendum, most voters answer 'no' to maintain the current situation, this would mean, in the light of the current wording of the question, that marriage does not have to remain a union between a man and a woman. This reply does not oblige the above provisions of the Family Law to be repealed and does not require officials, judges and other public bodies to allow the marriage of persons of the same sex. The negative answer opens up the possibility to initiate an extension of the concept of marriage in the Family Act. " You asked well, but the answer is opening a window of opportunity, according to the Chancellor of Justice, to establish a gender - neutral marriage, just as the Socialist Council wants and has manifested it. Then, indeed, the gates are wide open to move forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U324	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U325	Thank you, Mr President. President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! First of all, so you can't talk in the remote and in the media about how obstruction is somehow bad and the EKRE doesn't deal with this kind of thing, oh-oh, bad-bad, I remind you of 9 December 2015. I will open the EKRE home page and read here how the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia tabled 260 amendments to the implementation bill of the Cohabitation Act, which passed just the first reading two weeks ago. Martin Helme, Chairman of the Group, said that the purpose of submitting these amendments was to make the adoption of implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act impossible so that the Cohabitation Act would not enter into force, and the aim is to put the work of the Riigikogu to a halt So in that sense, you've been the same in history. But, as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please tell me this. The executive edition of the Constitution clearly states that if the people were to answer this question by accident, the government would have to initiate some kind of change. What are the changes your coalition is planning to initiate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U326	I don't think there's any need for such changes. However, it is a strong signal to politicians, including voters, that now the door to a gender-neutral marriage is now open, i.e. to the amendment of § 1 of the same family law, and, if desired, to the amendment of the constitution. I do not rule out that the Socialist Council is actually calling for its constitution to have a completely gender-neutral marriage in all its pride. So the fact that this is not about society cannot be said. I agree with the Chancellor of Justice's approach, which I quoted earlier. I can say that's my answer, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U327	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U328	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am aware that, in reflecting back the debate in the Commission, you have said the words of Mr Pohlak, if I am not mistaken, that no human should have a problem in understanding the current issue. But that is exactly what I asked him about, and he did not answer me, referred to me as an angry [man], which was a surprising, first-time assessment. But what bothers me is that if a person wants answers to substantive questions too, they are not actually given, even though this should be the role of a parliamentary debate. I'm going to ask you again. The question is as you put it: "Does marriage in Estonia have to remain an alliance between a man and a woman? "A person who does not follow the debate, who may not be interested in this referendum, goes into the booth, reads the question and thinks that, well, men and women may still get married. That doesn't mean he thinks people of the same sex can't get married. If there were sometimes the word "only" here, that is to say "stay only a union between a man and a woman," it would seem like a reflection of uniqueness. So, for me, there is already something on this issue that could be discussed in Parliament, whether it is clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U329	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U330	But how do you feel about what is going on today, that Members of Parliament are not actually getting answers to substantive questions from the draft rapporteur, in a situation where the explanatory statement is scarce?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U331	Well, with these answers, it's not like sometimes with questions that tend to go too far. Siim Pohlak, I think, answered these questions quite well, specifically. But the problems are related to this, I also referred to the Chancellor of Justice's opinion that a window of opportunity will be opened in case of a "no" response. As far as legal clarity is concerned, yes, I hope that there will also be some substantive proposals in the amendments you are proposing, not just a change to the date over the next ten years. Yes, such matters were discussed before the question was formulated and may be discussed later. This is a substantive debate. I am pleased when we go to a substantive debate. I am concerned about your optimism or your certain enthusiasm for presenting 50,000 amendments, which have been repeatedly emphasised by your representatives. This is not 260 amendments that could be discussed in a day or two. This isn't a night hearing or two night sittings. This is a stoppage of Parliament's work, and that is something I would not want for anyone in this Chamber. The Soots have once made trouble in Estonia's political history and given Konstantin Päts a mandate or his political support in March 1934 to cancel presidential elections and send competitors to the prison tower. Remember! This was the very ugly end of Estonian democracy. Do not play with 50,000 amendments!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U332	Yes, please, a procedural question! Signe Riisalo's microphone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U333	I understand that the rapporteur is currently making a presentation by the Commission. Why are these last statements, they have nothing to do with the work of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U334	Yeah, good questioners and respondents, let's try to stay on the theme circle. Thought TV may be very high and creative for members of the Riigikogu, but the rules of procedure stipulate that we remain on the subject. Let's keep going. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U335	Thank you. The vote on this draft decision may theoretically lead to two situations: one is that it receives Parliament's support, and the other is that it does not receive this support. At the same time, 18 April has been fixed here as the date for holding a referendum, if it receives Parliament's support. Did the Commission mention the technical problems that the referendum entails? There has also been information in the media or in the public that the electoral service has expressed the opinion that technical preparations are going too fast and cannot be carried out. Let's say it's a theoretical assumption that he's getting support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U336	We had a lot of talk about the timetable, but we didn't get to the technical problems of the election, which would be like the electoral commission's line. The main energy was still spent discussing the consequences. Similarly, we discussed the consequences of the 'no' response in legal terms. But I guess we'll get to those technical issues too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U337	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U338	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am surprised that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not refer to the dangers that the referendum poses. In our group, Mr Kiisler, all the time, says that the referendum as such is extremely dangerous, I understand that our constitutional order as well. Were you enlightened in the Commission about the way direct democracy threatens representative democracy? Another problem is that young people today, as much as you look at them, say that they are against any referendum that is dangerous. You have been a teacher of history and society. How can you change the mindset of young people and say that your opinion, young people, is still interesting, participate and participate in this involvement whenever possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U339	Thank you for your question. I would say that a lot of questions were written out of a sceptical spirit about the referendum. I do not recall anyone saying that this must not, in principle, be organised, that the referendum is bad by nature. However, doubts were expressed about the constitutionality of this referendum and about what was a matter of other state life, and they asked why the question being asked was not put to the vote as a draft law. So this kind of direct and less direct scepticism about the referendum I may have read from the questions. But in my opinion (as you asked about young people) we are far behind our Baltic neighbours. They dare ask, since 1992, the Latvians have dared to ask for the opinion of the people in a referendum eight times, the Lithuanians ten times. Why are we worse? We have only asked once about going to the European Union. You see, this was a difficult question, because it was accompanied by huge legal implications, tens of thousands of legislation that no one ever read, i.e. materials derived from European law, legal acts. The current question is quite simple compared to this. I very much hope that young and old and all levels of society will also learn to appreciate it, that their voice will be made to sound louder. Because referendums do not take over the main role of the Riigikogu, but complement it. I am sure that there will be no such often as many of these votes as some are afraid of. But this is one of the essential improvements to our democracy, because it is written in the Constitution. It can't be some jus nudum, an empty passage that's never been used. Nor is it some kind of nuclear knob to be used only in very, very, very, very emergency situations. We have questions in society, we don't fear our people, we ask him this question, we give him the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U340	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U341	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The next year's state budget includes EUR 195000 for municipal elections and EUR 1766000 for referendums. My simple question is why the referendum is so much more expensive or what is being done for this money or whether this expenditure is justified in such a time of crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U342	That is a very good question and I would like to examine it from the electoral commission. I think that they are the most competent ones to answer how much it will ultimately cost, technically, with the precision of the decimal point.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U343	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U344	Good manager! Good waitress! Idol Herbert Marcus of the New Socks has said that we will crush an old, rotten bourgeois marriage and build a new one on the ruins. Conservatives, in turn, must protect these historical values. Was there a discussion in the Commission and was there a vote in favour? Were we talking about a possible change in that date, or is it absolutely in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U345	The date of 18 April was never debated in the Commission, because we had a bitter dispute over the date when the bill went to the Chamber. We spent quite a lot of time on this, and in the end we reached the date of 14 December, because procedural reasons were found for not bringing it to the Riigikogu Chamber on 7 December. But as for reminding Mr Marcus, thank you very much. I think that's a very topical question. I do not consider it reasonable that we will implement the Marxist programme here today, in 2020, in the Riigikogu. Indeed, I recommend that we deepen our history.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U346	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U347	Thank you. Well, you see, Marxists were mentioned, and you're about to have a question from the Social Democrat. Life is like this, coincidences. I wanted to say, Anti, that, if you had stayed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we could have dealt with the issues of world policy further. Now you're in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, you have to defend such a draft. But your good colleague, Siim Pohlak, could not answer me. Maybe you can, maybe there was a debate around this fundamental question in the committee, and you know the answer? How potentially should the right of married persons of the same sex be legalised, in what way would it undermine the rights of couples or the wealth of married couples with a husband and wife? In what ways would they be harmed? I understand that this law has been initiated to prevent it. There's still a point in avoiding something that's harmful. Give just one concrete, tangible example of how their families would deteriorate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U348	That is a very good question and I would be willing to spend several hours on it. But I would not like to open this debate because, strangely enough, such discussions were never achieved in the Commission, but the steam went mainly to the debate on legal consequences. If you had been a Member of the Commission, I'm sure this would have taken a good half hour. But, unfortunately, we didn't really have time to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U349	Mr Kruusimäe, the debate on this item has the opportunity to put two questions. Yes, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U350	The members of the opposition were also able to ask a number of third questions. I do not know, if this is a sign of goodwill for the coalition, then I will, of course, give up my speech, then you can always give them a third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U351	No, it's not a sign of goodwill, it was because procedural questions had been asked beforehand. Only two questions can still be asked under the item. Mr Kaljulaid had previously asked a procedural question. But let's keep going. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U352	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, Ingrid Rüütel has said so nicely in an interview today that marriage and cohabitation could be equal before the law. Folklorist, including the wife of your party's honorary chairman, calls for an empathetic attitude. On the contrary, however, your party has repeatedly said through the mouth of different people that if, in a referendum, the answer is that yes, marriage is between a man and a woman, that would also be the basis for repealing the law on partnership. As Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, can you tell us how to guarantee the rights of same-sex couples? In what law can we guarantee their rights if you intend to reach that point in order to abolish the partnership law altogether, even though certain rights have already been granted to people years ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U353	I'll give you a brief answer. I think they have all the rights, all the civil rights, as well as the civil rights that we exercise every day. It's like there's nothing to take away from them, you've figured out how to take something away from them. That's why I'm worried about your artificially engineered problem that doesn't exist. In the sense of civil law, all citizens get their affairs done, and so do common-law couples. I can't hear the huge banging from common-law couples that we can't do anything in civil life. But for some reason, I hear it more from politicians than from LGBT+. So I don't think they're gonna take anything away from them right now. They can guarantee their rights in exactly the same way as all other members of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U354	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U355	Austet President! Good waitress! First of all, I wanted to remind you that 100 years ago, it was the left-wing forces, led by the sots and the working party, that laid the foundations for parliamentary democracy in Estonia, which we enjoy here today. But the question is, did it come out of the committee's discussions whether there are any forces in Estonia, any movement that would really require a ban on marriage between a man and a woman in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U356	That was a funny construction. There is a political force in the form of your own [party] wishing to legitimise a gender-neutral marriage, or I misread somewhere that your council adopted such a position.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U357	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Let's move on with the negotiations. Kaja Kallas, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U358	Thank you. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U359	Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U360	Ladies and gentlemen, The new record of Corona-positives, 760 corona-positives per day, schools are closed, hospitals are on a critical edge, and we are discussing the marriage referendum here. In any case, I am very embarrassed that the Riigikogu, rather than discussing the issues related to the corona crisis, which are currently on everyone's mind and tongue and which are actually affecting people's lives, is trying to pick up a fight on a subject that is not in any way a matter for the state. We have nothing against referendums in general. The people may be asked for opinions on important matters, as the Constitution says. There's a chance like this. But the question that we are now being offered is not a state to organise, it is not a matter of state life. This proposed referendum is both pointless, ridiculous and cruel. It is pointless to ask the people something about what is already in the law that no one is attacking. It is pointless, in a crisis where money is already scarce, to put it on the occasion of this referendum, to organise campaigns. This referendum is ridiculous because we are dealing with an unnecessary issue in the midst of a major crisis. The author of the draft act was not able to answer any questions in substance, nor was it able to answer Aivar Sõerd's question as to what problem we are solving with this draft. Nothing bad will happen to me personally with this referendum. I'm from a traditional family, I'm from a traditional marriage. I understand there will be more traditional marriages here too. But there are other families. That is why this marriage referendum cuts the heart. I do not believe that man is designed to harm others. But this referendum will bring much harm, not to me personally and probably not to most of the people in this Chamber who we are in marriages like we are, because we are born as representatives of the majority. But it will cause harm to many friends and acquaintances who have been born differently, to many families that do not fall under the definition of this right family, but are still functioning and loving families. In fact, it will cause harm to society as a whole. You want a referendum that says that one love is better than another. The Constitution protects the family, not the marriage, and there is a reason for it. The founders of the Constitution were very foresighted because there are different families. Now, however, they want to say that the only true family is the one with a married husband and wife. But this isn't real life. According to the census that took place nine years ago, 34.5% of people lived with a legal spouse, 15.6% living in a common-law relationship. Since 2000, the number of people living in a common-law relationship has steadily increased and the number of people legally married has decreased. For the last 15 years, more children are born than are born from legal marriages. If the right family is where the husband and wife are married, then I quote Liia Hänni, a member of the Constitutional Assembly: "Very many families are thus excluded from the protection of the state. EKRE's request is not so much to protect the concept of marriage from same-sex couples, but to hit two Estonian families." Why do we need the two leaves of the families, who's good for it, who's good for it, what's better than this when we tell some people that your family isn't right? Let's drop this referendum, please, don't!" Many of the members of the coalition have told me that this referendum will not come anyway. They're referring to the obstruction the opposition is planning. That it's okay if you vote in favour of leaving the procedure at first reading, you're talking some crazy talk about changing the question, while knowing that there's no willingness to change this issue in the coalition, and Siim Pohlak, the speaker today, confirmed that the coalition is not going to change that wording, so there is no hope for it. But if you vote in favour of this matter remaining in the process, then for the next month we will only be dealing with this issue. And look, ladies and gentlemen, as it has been said many times from this remote control, everything we do and do in this hall goes down in history. If you are counting on the opposition to prevent this procedure from happening with our obstruction, so that this referendum does not actually come, today is your last chance to show what you think of this referendum. You won't have any more chances. Do you dare think anything at all, or are you forbidden to do so? If you vote in favour, you will go down in history as those who wanted to hold a popular referendum for Putin in Estonia in the most difficult of the corona times. [[Voices in the hall.]] The result of today's vote will remain valid for years. It shows who voted in favour of politically motivated bullying and who voted against it. We therefore propose that this draft be rejected at first reading. I ask you, all ambassadors who want to go down in history with other subjects, to vote in favour of rejecting it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U361	Thank you. Tõnis Mölder, please, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U362	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I think that the introductory debate on this referendum has already gone down in history. I think there have been strong statements from this remote unit today, and I understand that they have received a positive response. So, anyway, good luck again on behalf of our whole group! But let's go to this bill. Indeed, this draft, which we have discussed in this Chamber, has given rise to a great deal of discussion. It is intended to be classified as "good or bad," "right or wrong," "fair or deceptive." They try to create opposites and to contrast. This is natural, of course, because strong emotions are the ones to be noticed. Strong emotions are what captures attention. The strength of emotions is due to the fact that the media reflects two sides, which are dealt with in a way that is too simple: attackers and those who are attacked. It is important to note that both sides seek opposition. Even those who consider themselves to be attackers do not hold back the conflict from being airborne in society. In the most difficult situation, a person who has not yet made his decision is a person who wants to reflect impartially, to consider constructively pros and cons and to make reasonable decisions. There's really no room for such a person in this debate anymore. You have to choose a side because neutrality has become impossible. Maybe there's only black and white colors here, but in real life there's also half-bones. We also have a colleague, Black and White, in this Chamber, but we also have colleagues with other family names. There are significantly more colors. The Centre Party has always been in favour of using the possibilities of direct democracy, asking for public opinion and listening. Estonia is a democratic state where the highest power is exercised by the people, and therefore special attention must be paid to the legislative initiatives that provide for referendums. No one, even honourable members of the Riigikogu, has the right to question the necessity of involving the people. To be precise, especially members of the Riigikogu do not have this right, because we are the chosen people and should take the opinion of the people as a golden truth. The angry opponents of this bill say that the debate must end right here, right now, now and now, forever. You can't do that. That's not how it works. The most disastrous thing for parliamentary democracy is if the debate is to be suppressed at all costs. A hundred, a thousand or even a million amendments can be tabled and the work of the Riigikogu can be paralyzed for months or years, but it does not make democracy stronger. Good members of the opposition! I'm gonna tell you that one day it might come back to you as a boomerang. The whole period of bickering should be directed towards the emergence of reasoned debates. You can also argue politely, for it is not for nothing that the word is sharper than the sword. However, it often seems that this debate is being tried to escape, spoken only with simple sentences, and it is forgotten that it is these debates that must be an input to the people in shaping their opinion. But politicians can only start with simple sentences and end with simple sentences. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that this is a draft which is only at first reading. This is a fundamental choice... Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U363	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U364	...this debate was held on the way forward. Do you think it's right to ask for the opinion of the people, or do you think that the people shouldn't be involved in this? This is the beginning of the debate. I would remind you that the first reading is just opening a debate here in this Chamber, but also in the Commission, only then will you have the opportunity to correct this draft. I believe you will understand that any debate that is polite, restrained, sensible and argumentable creates a stronger democracy in Estonia. Dear Members of Parliament! Please give the people a chance to celebrate the day of direct democracy. And let's move on to the debate on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U365	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U366	President-in-Office of the Council. Colleagues! The balcony also has the paramilitic wing of the opposition turning into an information operation that how badly the current coalition misdirects the country, how vile is the faction of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, who has brought an abusive, paralysing, disparaging draft into the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Well, we all know that, we've already read it, we've already heard it. We have also heard for several hours here the speeches, the questions. Often they cannot even be called questions; rather, they are blaming statements. So what's the problem? What's the problem, I'm asking you, esteemed opposition. Is the problem with legitimisation of referendums, which has actually been legalised, in this case, the establishment of a precedent will give the people the opportunity to have a strong say in politics and state life? Is this a problem because it will significantly reduce the impact of representative democracy and the power that manipulates representative democracy? Is that a problem? And I say yes, that's a problem for you. It is not for us, because we are in this Chamber to represent the part of the people whom you have effectively driven out of politics over your long years of power, from whom you have often taken the hope of making progress in life, who you have pushed to the periphery and who you have put in a hopeless position. As one of the leaders, you had the best finance minister in the world. This is a problem for you, and I understand perfectly that it is a problem for you, but it is not a problem for us. The problem with us is that the people do not have that say right now. What else is the problem? It has come out very clearly of these questions, the pointing of blame. It is the problem that this referendum takes away from you the opportunity to redefine marriage, to turn marriage into a phenomenon that does not have this backbone, the specific pillar around which all social life is actually revolved around, around which the life cycle of children's and children's coping, men's and men's coping, women's and women's coping. You want to blur it, you want to do something about it that we don't put into question at all. You want to make it some kind of new family model. Sorry, this referendum doesn't deal with family models. This referendum deals with marriage and asks the Estonian people very simply and without any constitutional contradiction: does the Estonian people believe that marriage must remain an alliance between one man and one woman? Marriage! And that's all that's said, and you can't play with it anymore, you can't redefine it. And that's easy. That's it. Everything! Very clearly formulated for society and very clearly, completely unambiguously, understandablely also approved or rejected by the people. There's nothing to hesitate about. And now that the opposition leaders still love to turn to the members of the coalition with tears that, dears, we know that you do not share the opinion of your leaders that you are often in a different mind, you often disagree... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U367	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U368	... then I will now address you, members of the opposition, among whom there are also quite a considerable amount of those who do not share the ultraliberal views that are presented here on the platform and elsewhere by your leaders. There are enough among you who would like to give their support to this referendum, to referendums as a whole, and also to marriage as a union between men and women in particular. There are many such people among you, members of the opposition, and there are even more of them among your supporters, among your constituents, honourable opposition representatives. I therefore call on the honourable members of the opposition, who do not support in your heart the ultraliberal positions of their leaders, the disparaging positions of society, the demolishing positions of the family, and the reformative positions of the family, to support this referendum and also to reject the attempts to take this referendum off the agenda. And finally. If there is one endless wailing about the fact that we have a health crisis and the government cannot handle it, and now it is still a matter like this, then, my dear friends, your attempts to torpedo this bill with thousands or millions of suggestions for improvement are the most real creation of the crisis in Estonia, the most genuine paralysis of the government and the work of the Riigikogu. And it's absolutely immoral, it's actually absolutely illegal. This, believe me, hits you both very painfully on both cheeks and maybe even knock you out eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U369	Thank you. Indrek Saar, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U370	Thank you for the floor. Can I have some more time now, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U371	Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U372	Dear Riigikogu! The people of Estonia! And indeed, I appeal to you, members of the coalition. Good members of the coalition! Think about why you're doing this for a second. Who needs this referendum? Who does that make you happy? Does this make the Estonian people happy, most of whom have said, according to all the polls, that they do not need the referendum you are imposing on them at the moment? Other issues are important to them: korona, health, economy, jobs. Is that what your party needs? I don't think so. Members of the Fatherland and the Centre Party, did you really join the party that promised to raise the issue of sexual orientation? I didn't. Did you apply to this parliament of the Republic of Estonia to allow your party to organise a referendum that your voters do not expect and need, which takes attention to the resolution of the greatest health crisis in the history of our country, which divides society and attacks many citizens of our country, many of whom are familiar, friends and close? No, you didn't apply for this. That wasn't your promise. Then why do you stand up to your friends and friends? Because of allegiance to the party? I know that fidelity is an important measure of marriage, and you will probably also put it in a referendum. But, for example, in the Finnish Parliament, it has been agreed by default that there are certain issues that are not subject to party voting, but that everyone can vote according to conscience. And one of these issues is precisely marriage, because marriage is too personal, too important, too delicate and sensitive a subject to introduce party-based behavioral discipline here. Who are we in this Parliament? More democrats or rather the NLKP? That, too, is finally your decision. Or does this referendum make you happy about yourself? I don't think so. Because I know I won't. I know that in your heart you want this referendum not to take place. But if you don't do anything, he's gonna happen. You'll be responsible for it exactly the same way. If you do not take part in the vote or abstain, do not think that your fingerprint is not under this referendum. Yes, it is. You let that happen. It was your decision, your will. So this is your referendum. Why are you doing this? Okay, I'm a politician like you, and I don't want to be moral to you. I am no better than you, as well as you know, that there must be compromises in politics. I know that the goal sometimes consecrates the means, and sometimes the coalition must support what would not otherwise be done. I know. But this referendum is more important than a motion of distrust for the EKRE's thugs, more important than a political debate where you could vote in favour or not at all. It's more important than that. Because not only is Estonia's reputation already falling apart at stake, not only the situation of our minorities and the signal to all other minorities, but the question at stake is what are the values of our country we are. That is why I cannot believe that today you have decided to celebrate such a measure in the name of power. In 2020, in a Member State of the European Union, in an independent country, in a proud and free country that has allowed all its citizens to be treated equally, you will decide not to do so immediately after a few moments. Why are you doing this? Never alone again! This is vital for a small country, both for security and for the economy. Estonia has so far been the finest in the post-Soviet countries, one can say. An open, innovative country that respects freedom of the press and human rights, successfully countering corruption. For the past year and a half, our apron has been shaken to a great deal of dirt. However, if there has yet been any way to patch it up with excuses that it is the behaviour of individual members of the government, after the majority of the coalition, with the majority of the votes in Parliament, with your votes in a referendum on minority rights, we have played ourselves in time several decades ago, hopelessly into a Soviet Socialist Republic. Why are you doing this? It is not just a matter of timing. Yes, hundreds of people are infected every day, thousands of jobs disappear, entire economic sectors disappear, hotels and factories, restaurants and schools are closed around us, and the only places where people are throbbing are, unfortunately, hospitals. Yes, people are afraid of their jobs, their health, their children's education, their future. Estonia has not been in such a difficult situation for decades. And yet you decide that the most important thing for the Estonian state right now is to deal with the issue of marriage. But this really is not just a matter of exceptionally cynical timing. This referendum is bad at any time and in any place. However, this is particularly bad in 2021 in our country, the country you have wanted to rebuild. That's why you joined the party. That's why you ran for office. Now you're here, you're about to have a decision before you that will tear this country apart. Why are you doing this? Don't tell that to me, opositioner. Do not say this to the press, to this paramilitary opposition group, because it is no longer the norm in recent times. But imagine one, at least one of your constituents: a person from Virumaa or Põlva or Tallinn who comes to you with his concern. And you must answer him why you are not dealing with his concern, but with this referendum. What do you say to your voter, and what do you say to your conscience when they ask you why do you do it? Because you're doing it. Unfortunately, everyone who does not vote against this referendum is in favour of this happening. Colleagues on the coalition side! Please stop this madness and vote against this referendum. And the Social Democrats are proposing that the bill be rejected. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U373	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U374	Five plus three, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U375	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U376	Honourable Riigikogu! Prerequisites for a referendum were established as early as 2014, when, on the basis of lies and under the pressure of the minority, the law on cohabitation, which violated the sense of justice of the majority, was passed, and it divided society sharply. The Notaries' Chamber wrote that it is not in accordance with good lawmaking practice if the draft gives the impression that giving couples of the same sex the possibility to regulate their cohabitation would be the main objective of the law, which is to hide behind the problems of the factual cohabitation of couples of different sexes. Such conduct increased the sense of danger for traditional proponents of marriage and the support of the politicians who were quick to represent them. The relationship between the political forces formed after the last Riigikogu elections led to a coalition agreement where a referendum on marriage was agreed as a compromise. The criticisms and reproaches that this is not necessary because marriage is protected by law were Pharisees, since earlier supporters of the Cohabitation Act have proposed legitimization of same-sex marriages, are not limited to the strange construction of marriages. Thus, the sense of danger and fears of those who support traditional marriage have proved justified. The provisions of the current Family Law that make a marriage between a man and a woman have been changed. It is desirable to create a situation where both cohabitation and marriage are intended for both the same sex and the different sexes. What's with the mess? In addition to the value-based dispute, it is once again a matter of wrestling and concealing real applications. The legalisation of same-sex marriage also legitimizes the right to adopt same-sex couples and to continue trading with children, surrogateism and birth manipulation. Equality of marriage means equality of adoption and the ideal that a family is a father, mother and children will be legally and politically incorrect in the future and will cease to exist. When entering this chain, we must ask ourselves where it leads, how it affects the orientation and values of society. You will answer that this is a modern and European way. Yes, it is. Unfortunately. Fascism and communism, concentration camps and both world wars have started in Europe. Childlessness, loneliness, comfort and the ageing of society are also the reality of modern Europe. Is everything that is modern and European really worth following? We could limit ourselves to taking over the best and healthy values, or at least to striving for it. In 2016, the Isamaa Party proposed to the political parties of the Riigikogu to initiate an amendment to the Constitution, which would provide for marriage as a union between a man and a woman. As there is not enough support for the proposal of the Fatherland in the Riigikogu, the only way to defend the definition of marriage as laid down in the Family Law is through a referendum. It's the wrong ones who say the poll is pointless and doesn't change anything. Yes, it does. The Chancellor of Justice has clearly stated that the result of the referendum is binding and can only be changed after the new referendum. If the majority answers the question of 'yes', then in the future, it will not be just a majority vote in Parliament to legitimise same-sex marriage. This would be fundamentally different from the present situation. The survey conducted by Norstat Eesti AS in November revealed that 75% of respondents would participate in the referendum and 63% would respond. Demagogical is the argument that a yes-answer to the question currently proposed does not preclude the regularisation of same-sex marriages. Yes, it does. In particular, those who fight against the referendum are afraid of the outcome of the vote and therefore fight against it without choosing the means (obstruction and avoidance of debate) and try to turn it simply into a protest against the government. The debate on the concept of marriage is said to be of little importance and a referendum on the devil and divisive. For some reason, this minor issue is combated by extreme activity and the last drop of blood, and it has been the main topic of the debate between politicians, the press and the media for a long time. During the last five years, referendums on same-sex marriages have taken place in Ireland, Australia, Slovenia and Switzerland. Are these examples reactionary, undemocratic, restrictive of minority rights and inappropriate for the rule of law? What does Estonia have to fear and be ashamed of in this line? It is hypocritical to prevent a referendum from taking place today, as this vote does not increase the social divide. Any result would rather narrow the gap, as society recognises the result of the referendum more than the decision taken by the Riigikogu majority or the position imposed by a small number of elites. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the conscience and free mandate of a member of the Riigikogu. § 62 of the Constitution says that a member of the Riigikogu is not bound by a mandate. In Estonian journalism and media, this applies only to members of the coalition in the Riigikogu. Once, no question has been asked whether all members of the opposition really think and vote alike on the basis of the principle of free mandate, despite the fact that several members of the opposition sitting in the Chamber today have previously voted against the Cohabitation Act and supported a referendum on the Cohabitation Act in the vote. Parliamentary democracy is in reality much deeper than the simplified treatment of a single section of the Constitution and Parliament is much more complicated than the primitive sum of individual ambassadors. The search for common ground on even the most complex issues, and the agreement and adherence to promises and agreements, are in line with good political culture, the constitution and high standards of morality and ethics. We will then proceed from this, both as individual ambassadors and as members of the political parties that have received the mandate, behind whom are voters and electoral promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U377	Thank you very much. The representatives of the political groups have spoken, the speeches have been made. I'll call the negotiations off. We have a number of good proposals. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 288, and we have a proposal from two groups. The proposal of the Reform Party Group is to reject the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on the organisation of a referendum on the concept of marriage 288 at first reading. A similar proposal has been made by the Social Democratic Party Group. There. We're approaching the vote. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U378	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break before this vote, because repeated calls to think about their mandate and to think about it, I think, need ten minutes to think about it before that vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U379	Ten minutes break. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U380	Ladies and gentlemen, Break's over. I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party to reject the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on the organisation of a referendum on the concept of marriage 288 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U381	48 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of rejecting the draft, 51 against. The draft will remain in order. Ladies and gentlemen, The part of the sitting where we address the agenda issues is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U382	It is now possible to register for a call in a free microphone format after a hammer hit. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U383	Thank you. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U384	Eight minutes in total. Oh, I'm sorry, I can't! There's five minutes in the free microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U385	You can't? Got it. Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Since only the representatives of the political groups were able to speak on this important subject at first reading, a few additional comments on the same subject from the subject of this debate, as the subject is a multifaceted one and, unfortunately, today's many rapporteurs did not answer the substantive questions. Firstly, indeed, a number of studies, including one of the polls I commissioned by Norstat, clearly show that the majority of those interviewed do not consider it necessary to hold this referendum. It is noteworthy that those who do not consider it necessary are in all socio-demographic groups, young, old, women, men, Russians, Estonians, rural people, urban people. In general, people do not consider this issue to be important enough to be addressed in the referendum, which is logical. The coalition tried to complain here that the opposition did not want to listen to the voice of the people. That's not the point. The point is that the proposal of the coalition, the draft that passed the first reading today, is actually an example of ara populism and precisely ara populism, because it would be fair to ask this question by putting it to a referendum. This could be done, for example, by supplementing family law. As a result, it would indeed be clear that later in family law, for example, it would be more difficult to legitimise same-sex marriage, but the dark side and raising stakes for the coalition would be that, as a result, if the people said no, Parliament should disband. And, of course, there is no such courage. In addition, one might ask whether there is a real desire to change something with this initiative. In fact, it seems to me more and more that the aim, for ten years in a row, is to campaign a party and do so at the expense of a minority in society. Because what happens if the people answer that question? Then, as has been said, the amendment of the Constitution will be initiated. The amendment to the Constitution may be adopted in one composition by simple votes, but it will not enter into force. Then it will be possible to speak in the next Riigikogu elections that you will now choose those who will finally ban these gay marriages, and another election will be able to do with the same subject. The result, of course, is that, even after the next elections, a sufficient majority is not likely to emerge in order to actually change the constitution. This is indeed the case for ten years in a row, without any change in substance, but by lowering one minority in society. This isn't right. It's not right. If the coalition really wants to vote on this issue, they should propose that the draft be put to a referendum. I think that we in the opposition would be prepared to discuss this proposal in order to overcome this deadlock. But here's the final comment, because I'm afraid there's no more three minutes. This concerns this very confident assessment, which we have heard here today, that if the referendum answers yes, the wording of the question means that Parliament will not be able to change the family law later. I absolutely do not agree with this, absolutely do not agree with it. The question is this: does marriage in Estonia have to remain an alliance between a man and a woman? Every normal person says that marriage should remain a union between a man and a woman, because no one has proposed that the marriage between men and women be terminated and certainly not done so. If there were only the word "only" here that only a union between a man and a woman, then there would be another question, but it was not encouraged to put it there either. It means, as the writer Peter Sauter said, that it is the same question as whether bears are brown. People say yes, of course, that bears are brown, but it cannot be concluded that white bears or panda bears are no longer bears because no one has asked. In the same way, there is no conclusion to what is here, even in the case of a 'yes' response, about what Parliament can do next. But it is, of course, symptomatic that these questions, which are substantively and legally important, that what follows from one answer or another, did not even bother the rapporteurs today to answer, because they really do not care. They are only interested in the election campaign that comes with this referendum and which, I think, is harmful to Estonian society, not to mention that it does not solve any real problems. And we have enough of these real problems, as we know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U386	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U387	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about Estonian families, about the people of Estonia who are currently being overlooked, and about how the holding of a referendum in this form will turn out to be a mockery of the people. For me, the most important thing is the Estonian family, every family, whether it includes mother and grandmother, mother and mother or mother and mother with children. A single-living pensioner also belongs to someone's family. I hope that there are no people in Estonia who have no one who can be called his own family. If we want to protect the Estonian family, the will of which is also a prerequisite for marriage, then the person must be supported. The Constitution does not make a state budget, the referendum does not raise child benefits and the concept of marriage does not support a single-living pensioner. None of them in themselves helps Estonian families and their livelihood. The worst thing that can happen to one family is if someone in it dies. The personal world of these people is collapsing, their hopes and opportunities are being crossed. Unfortunately, that is what today's viral crisis is doing. Five people died yesterday, 30 people die a week and 100 or more by the end of the month. The crisis in every Estonian family should also be the common concern of the Estonian state, Estonian society and Estonian people, the common pain to bear together. Hundreds and soon thousands of people end unemployment benefits every month in the midst of a deep crisis. Their only hope is EUR 180 unemployment benefit. This will be a crisis for those who are forced to give up their homes because of a lack of income. Companies are shutting down, jobs are disappearing more and more, but the government and the government coalition consider the referendum so important that it has all the attention. The debate on the referendum at the new climax of the crisis brings attention to those families that need the most attention today. The media are full of marriage proposals and each other's feuds, accusations. But in Parliament and in the government, we do not talk about collapsing families. No one discusses how to support the elderly so that they can have a nursing home. No one is worried about whether children who are long away from school will become a generation of worse education, and deaths will become common statistics. Sad, but above all, shame. I am a supporter of referendums, but I do not want and do not consider it right to support a referendum that is being overlooked by the concerns of the people, a referendum that taunts the people. What else is a referendum that does not change anything? When a person comes to vote, his will must be the law. With this idea, the Estonian people have made the Constitution and the Member must respect it. But now they're going to get past it. Vote whatever you want, your will doesn't really matter. Playing with democracy, populist playing with the will of the people is a shame and is not suitable for the parliament of the Republic of Estonia. Most importantly, the Estonian family, no father, no mother, no child, no grandmother or grandpa will get no better than this. Only money that can improve their livelihood will be blown to the wind. Shame and shame! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U388	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U389	Good President and few colleagues. I had no intention of coming here, but listening to the speeches of many esteemed colleagues in time to nauseate. A colleague is a folk artist, an actor, well, it should be embarrassing to talk about such a hollow talk. The previous speaker is not a folk artist, and his story can be taken as a non-professional, but all the same: great troubles, poverty, misery, corona, government do nothing, and now they're dealing with some kind of bullshit. Hey, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the world is changing, but the stories about the new normality that I hear more and more about Estonia, not to mention beyond the border (Sweden is an excellent example), are that a father may have a skirt, a mother may have a beard, a sex is a social structure, a child can be bought from a surrogateist in Ukraine, but also elsewhere, everything is relative, a family in the same way, and marriage. I'm not gonna talk here about marrying a computer or my favorite terrier, these are such extreme things. But the question is, marriage can be between anyone. Yes, maybe somewhere and at some point it might be an option, but for Estonia's society today, this is not the time. I was a journalist, and I remember how the cohabitation law was passed here, how the doorway of our castle was then wrapped in flowers. The same man who recently brought 101 rainbow cakes was behind buying these flowers. Rainbow's been taken by some small company, it's changed. When I look at the rainbow, I think someone's taken it. I'm looking at the Christmas trees of Rakvere, to which the gay mark has also been pushed to the end of our esteemed colleague, a small biscuit. It makes me drool. However, family and marriage are an alliance between a man and a woman. And right now, it's supposed to stay that way. New normalities really come in through the window and the door. We're being pressured that everything is relative. In fact, not everything is relative. There's a lot of things that are, and that's what's gonna be. Two fine homosexuals buy a child from Ukraine, where poor women are willing to use their womb to earn bread. They come here and show off here. Today I happen to read in the paper how two children of good homosexuals live in rooms with 300 square meters high ceilings. And we have to listen and read more and more of these stories. I don't think that's normal. The situation of the Estonian population is very critical. The special committee meeting today also discussed in detail how the people are dying, how new immigrants across the border arrive and the number of Estonians in rural areas is falling. Love can be. I also have love for my dogs, for my cats. Love is also for others, father, mother, and so on, for whom they still live. But there will be no new children, no new Estonians, no Estonians. True, maybe it's a new normality when we start buying those who are raised somewhere in the Surrogate womb and who have been paid for crappy money, even though there's a much bigger meaning...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U390	Honourable colleague, your time has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U391	Yeah, that's what I'm done with. So I am very pleased that today's vote went down that way. This means that Parliament still has its mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U392	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U393	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we have heard a great deal of discussion in this Chamber about whether we should listen to the opinion of the people as to whether it is important. No doubt, the opinion of the people is important, and it is important to resolve the real concerns of the people. But having a referendum is in no way proof of the existence of democracy or of any kind of arrival; it is not an achievement in itself. Democracy is not the goal. It's a day-to-day process, it's rules, compliance with laws, involvement in decision-making, transparency. All these qualities are essential for democracy. A parliamentary debate of substance is just as indispensable in the case of democracy, but today, in a situation where the referendum is rushing, the explanatory memorandum is very scarce, the draft decision is upset by the opposition, does not answer the questions of how to make a substantive decision? On what basis do the ambassadors vote? Just as this remote control has already been spoken, in fact, this assurance that the question is unambiguous, it is not. How can we still understand this question? As with the discussions on the second pillar, which have already been referred to here today: on my questions, on the basis of which people decide what is a economically sound decision for them, what is a good decision for their future pension, I have received the answer from the coalition that people are probably trying to get up to speed. It is the same here that in a referendum there will be a question, and people will probably try to understand what they really want to ask. But what is it that they really want to ask? Evgeny Ossinovski referred to it as a devout populism: in fact, there is something that is not dared to ask directly. They don't ask about marriage equality. So we don't know what they really want to ask, what happens when they don't. It is undoubtedly important that we move forward with referendums in order to provide for a constitutional referendum on other matters of state life. In this Chamber, we have also discussed a lot over the last few weeks about strategic choices that are important for Estonia, it is the development strategy of "Estonia 2035," these are issues concerning the protection of biodiversity and logging, nuclear power plant, health insurance for everyone, the transition to summer time or only staying in summer time. These are issues where there are very different views, where there is a need for age-old knowledge, which needs to be discussed in society, in order to find out how to make this choice. It is an important choice that can be asked by the people. However, for some reason such very strong follow-up issues and important issues for Estonia are not recommended to discuss with the people, not to mention to deal with the corona crisis now. We are talking about whether a husband and wife can continue to marry. Yeah, maybe today, maybe tomorrow, maybe in the future, maybe in the future. But all in all, both the procedure for this draft referendum decision and this debate in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu really show me a lack of respect for democracy. Not asking the real question, not really discussing, suggesting not negotiating or essentially reaching a strong solution. In fact, it is only a matter of taking political points, of pushing through what is stated in its electoral programme. What would actually take Estonian society forward or help come to a solution did not sound here today. All this so that people are happy to have better parental skills, that children grow up well, that the state can support, that should be reflected in the budget. For some reason, it is very difficult for the coalition to move forward with such substantive concerns, but in terms of definitions, everyone is a great expert. But let's move on, really! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U394	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U395	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank you for a very interesting and meaningful interview with Toomas Sildam. Yeah, you. It was in the context of the European Union and it was very, very good, indeed very good. I would like to thank you once again for this because such an expanding view is not often found, neither in this Chamber nor in many other debates, nor in debates. Indeed, when discussing marriage and referendums today, I, as a relatively young person, dare to think that this probably will not do a great deal of honour to politicians in the near future. But I guess it's a social debate. However, in the course of this debate, I asked Mr Pohlak a question today, which also concerned Europe. In fact, sometimes we forget that things that start in this chair may fail or clogged up somewhere in the media lanes. But, unfortunately, I discovered a story today in the Saaremaa parish in Pärnumaa. This debate, which began on whether the flag of the European Union has a seat in Parliament, has reached the territory of the municipality. It is very sad to be honest to read these comments, where the Vice-Chairman of the City Council of Pärnu says that this flag is enslaving and must be removed from the public space. They actually place this whole parliamentary debate in a completely different place. We may not often notice that these footprints, which we do here, fall on Estonia's soil. And then, when we discuss what the next European Union support measures should be, or what our relationship with our neighbours, our allies, we are reducing everything to our own insecurity and saying that the flag of the European Union does not have a place on our territory, because there will be all the bad things that we are fighting completely in this Chamber, including today, whether they are implementing acts of the Cohabitation Act or a more precise definition of marriage. On the other hand, we are concerned about the growth of the offspring. The foundation of Estonian statehood is young people, Estonian language and culture. With the other hand, we are trying to create a favourable ground for these people, these young people, to come to the statues of freedom in our counties on important occasions and to respect those who have given us this freedom. This enormous uncertainty will destroy this country. This may be what I wanted to draw attention to today. Of course, it's stuck in all of us, including me. But sometimes you have to come up here and look in the mirror, not only to talk to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U396	Thank you very much. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U397	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Why didn't I vote for the bill today? I know it's hard for many of you to understand. I made this decision with my own heart, with a heavy heart, but only because I believe in finding solutions, not just a demonstration of mind. And here's my reason for you. There are many different family models in Estonia. We have common-law couples, same-sex and special-sex couples, single mothers with children, honeycomb families, etc. There's a lot of family models. This is the reality of Estonia. They are all Estonian families. They all deserve protection. My suggestion is that all Estonian families be under the protective wing of the family law. All Estonian families must have the right to a sense of security and legal certainty. Today's referendum is just a game. It's a scam that's been triggered by a party that just benefits. It divides Estonia and hurts many families. We can't let that happen in this hall. If this topic is not on the table in the Riigikogu, there is no reason for the Riigikogu to deal with it. My suggestion is that a solution must be found in the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu must take responsibility. This draft must therefore be dealt with and a cross-party solution found. The procedure forces the Riigikogu to seek solutions. One of the options for a solution is to formulate a new question. Putting a public question in a referendum would open the way for reconciliation, understanding, love. Whatever the outcome, yes or no, today's question is that people are divided and many families are hurt. We must not allow this to happen as statesmen. But there are still possible solutions. There is an opportunity to present a bill that offers all families a sense of security that is not available today. It is time to open hearts and start looking for these opportunities between all political forces. That is why I voted this way today. The principle of the question I propose is: do you agree that all Estonian families should be protected by the family law, in addition to marriage, which is a union between a man and a woman? The exact legal wording must be provided by legal experts and constitutional experts. I propose to you the principle of this question. I followed my conscience in today's vote and I want to fight for a solution. If this is not possible and the principle of my amendment is not supported, and the draft will go to the final vote in its original form, you can rest assured that I will do everything I can to ensure that it does not receive support in Parliament. Estonia must be united, not divided. I want to stand up for it. Love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-14_U398	There is no further talk request. The free microphone is finished and the session is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow.
