ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 41 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U2	For ten, against 54. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 41 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U3	Thank you. I ask you to vote on this very important amendment, which guarantees our elderly people a free nursing home. And since the coalition isn't even fixed by time, I'm not taking a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U4	Excellent! I shall put to the vote... [[The window of the hall goes banged up because of a draft. Laughter in the hall.]] It's haunted. Even ghosts will be happy. I shall put to the vote Amendment 41 made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U5	By 18, against 53 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. Next amendment, No 42, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U6	Thank you. This amendment is a very important reminder that making a state budget is not a party with an open bill and that all debts must finally be repaid. This reduces the possibility for the government to over borrow. In order for it to enter into force, I ask you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U7	I shall put to the vote Amendment 42, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U8	34 members of the Riigikogu, against 54. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 43, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U9	I would like to ask for this amendment, which concerns debt control, to vote and support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U10	I shall put to the vote Amendment 43 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U11	37 members of the Riigikogu, against 54. The proposal was not supported. Last amendment, No 44, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U12	I would like to ask for this amendment, which would bring the state budget to balance, to support and vote for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U13	I shall put to the vote Amendment 44, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U14	For 35, against 54 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. This is the second reading of the National Budget Act 2021... [[Voices in the hall.]] The amendments have been examined, but do not get alarmed. We have two proposals here, one from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the other from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Both propose to interrupt the second reading of Bill 254 of the National Budget Act 2021. Please, we are going to the vote. Should I make a hall call? No, it's okay. It's all in the hall. I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party to interrupt the second reading of Bill 254 of the National Budget Act 2021. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U15	There are 41 and 54 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal. The proposal for interruption was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 254. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 30 November at 5.15 p.m. This item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U16	We will go to the next item, which is the second reading of the draft Act 234 amending the Tourism Act and the Consumer Protection Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission, to be here as a waitress. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U17	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I think you'll be very grateful to me if I'll be brief. I will be brief at first, and if you want any further explanations, I will be waiting for questions. We are talking about a draft amendment to the Tourism Act and the Consumer Protection Act. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 September. The first reading took place on 30 September, with the deadline of 14 October at 5.15 p.m. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The Ministry of Finance presented the draft to the lead committee with a proposal to include further amendments to the Income Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act in the draft. If you remember, they concerned the provision of data on digital marketing portals and the sanctioning of failure to submit. However, on this point, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided that the issue would remain too far from the Tourism Act as it concerned the whole collaborative economy, and it was agreed that these issues would be left to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. And according to the latest information, the Ministry of Finance is sending a new letter to the Finance Commission. Technical amendments were proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry improved the draft and allows hotels to organise the registration of guests electronically and to submit data to the Police and Border Guard Board, as they agree. The text of the draft act passed between the two readings and technical and linguistic changes have been made to the draft act, which in no case alters the content of the draft act. Four proposals have been included in the list of amendments, all of which are proposals by the commission. All the proposals received consensus from the Commission. The procedural decisions of the commission shall be as follows: The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the draft be put on the Riigikogu agenda for second reading by 18 November and that the second reading be stopped. When the second reading is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading is a final vote on 25 November. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U18	Thank you. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you can ask up to two oral questions each, with a duration of one minute. But it seems there are no questions. I thank the waitress. Would you like to start negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations either. Four amendments to the draft have come from the lead committee, and we will examine them together. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, is the position of the commission in full consideration. The second amendment, as well as from the Committee on Economic Affairs, is to be taken fully into account. The third amendment from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the proposal of the commission, is to take full account of it. And the fourth amendment from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the position of the lead committee, is to take full account. We have examined all the amendments and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 234. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U19	The next and last item is the second reading of the Bill 236 of the Government of the Republic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws (merging the Air Administration, the Road Administration and the Maritime Administration). I would like to ask Kalev Kallo, member of the Economic Commission, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U20	Good morning. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft of the Act amending the Government of the Republic and other laws (merging the Air Administration, the Road Administration and the Maritime Administration) was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a on September 14th. A brief reminder of the content of the draft. The draft will be joined by the Authority, the Road Administration and the Maritime Administration. The merger of agencies is based on the general principle of public reform to reduce the number and duplication of public authorities and to improve the quality and availability of public services. The new agency aims to create a competence centre across transport modes, where smart mobility solutions can be planned and projects carried out across transport modes can be carried out. The merger does not merely reorganize inter-agency work. In the course of the merger, the position of Deputy Maritime Chancellor of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will also be established, while the marketing activities of the project bringing ships under the Estonian flag will be brought to the Ministry. The first reading of Bill 236 took place on 30 September. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 14 October at 5.15 p.m., amendments were received by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Opinions on the draft were delivered by ITS Estonia Network, the Marine Language Advisory Board, the Estonian Seafarers Independent Trade Union (EMSA), the Maritime Advisory Board and the Estonian Language Institute. The joint public address was made by EMSA, the Estonian Ship Leaders' Association, the Estonian Shipmen's Association and the Estonian Masters' Club. The commission found that the proposals submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party do not comply with § 99 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, because it does not contain a reference to the part of the draft to be amended, nor does it recommend the exact wording of the amendment, and cannot be treated as an amendment. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications submitted its views on the draft and on the draft opinion to the Committee on Economic Affairs. All opinions and views on the draft can be consulted on the draft map. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for the meeting of the Commission at its meeting on 22 October, attended by representatives of the initiators of the draft, the Maritime Advisory Board and the Estonian Seamen's Independent Trade Union. At the meeting, the concerns raised in the referral were also discussed with the parties. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading at its meeting of 26 October, 9 November and 16 November, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Commission decided to propose ten amendments to the draft, nine of which were submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The text of the draft act passed between the two readings and technical and linguistic changes have been made to the draft act, which in no case alters the content of the draft act. I will now look at what has been said in the Commission. This draft was discussed at three meetings of the Commission. The first debate took place on 26 October. The members of the committee, Annely Akkermann, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Korb, Kristen Michal and Kai Rimmel, and Ahti King, Deputy Secretary-General for Transport at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Indrek Gailan, Head of the Transport Development and Investment Department, as well as Priit Sauk, project manager for the unification of agencies. At this meeting of the Commission, the Ministry's replies to the letters from the independent trade union and the Maritime Advisory Board were widely heard. Sven Sester introduced the item and noted that a working group on the same subject met last week, with all the stakeholders who had responded in writing to a specific draft. The invitation was also submitted to the members of the Economic Commission and Sven Sester, Jüri Jaanson and the leading rapporteur, Kalev Kallo, took part. The Ministry has given sufficiently exhaustive answers to all correspondence received. The Commission may have discussed content and form, but it was decided not to take final decisions at the meeting of the Commission on 26 October. It was found that the concerns of the Maritime Advisory Board and the Estonian Seamen's Independent Trade Union should be reviewed, in addition to the proposals of the Reform Party and, after that, the name of the joint office should be discussed. Everyone could be able to offer different names in their minds, and members of the Commission could vote in favour of these names. The two names that received the most votes would be discussed in the political groups, and then in the next session in a week's time, a final position would be taken by vote. Indrek Gailan, Head of the Transport Development and Investment Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, said that the process of establishing the Joint Authority was actually started as early as 2015 when analyses and studies were carried out, but the reform was not carried out at the time. It is therefore not quite correct to mention the process of establishing a unified agency in order to speed up the process. It started again in 2019 with a larger plan for the reform of the state. At the end of the same year, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications received the task of looking at alternatives to the merger of the three agencies. First, it was said that supervision could be separate from the planning and construction process. As a result of the analyses, the separation of supervision from the current agencies would increase the level of competence in the fields. The merger of the three agencies was also examined. In this context, the supervisory function at the Üksemet was also analysed as to whether it could be unlawful in any way. The legal analysis revealed that no restrictions exist there. The positive trends in the merger of the three agencies were that the provision of services to customers would improve and cross-sectoral planning would be better organised. The urgency of the search for the Director-General was due to the need to start the process as soon as possible, as the existence of a new leader is best for the establishment of a joint office. At an early stage, a clear visionary leader is needed for the team to gather behind him. At the same time, the clause that the Riigikogu will make the final decision has been added when the competition was announced. In this process, efforts have been made to do things as quickly as possible, but not to conflict with legal principles. As far as maritime attention is concerned, more steps have been taken to strengthen the competence of maritime governance in general. For example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications plans to establish the position of Deputy Secretary-General for Maritime Affairs with the associated department and additional resources. It is also not true that maritime issues would be fragmented in the merger of agencies, as all the tasks and activities of the current agency will be transferred to the EASO. The fact that the Maritime Administration will be part of a larger office means that there will be a cross-cutting competence centre and planning and the implementation of better practices in processes, procurement and project management skills. The Deputy Secretary-General of Transport Ahti King of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications added that one issue was the duplication of official functions in the Ministry, but in fact there are three or four people in each field in the Ministry and are involved in legislative, strategic and external planning. The Agency is a customer service institution, but as it is close to the customer, the Office is also involved in various processes of the Ministry. It is also intended to increase the analytical role of the Agency. But there will be no duplication with the Ministry. [[A voice from the hall.]] The presentation is going to be very long, because there were three meetings of the Commission and there is a need to give a comprehensive overview of all of them. [[In the diner.]] Sven Sester pointed out that although this was not directly related to the unification of agencies, the question of the competence of the Maritime Vice-Chancellor arose at the working group meeting. The parties involved in maritime affairs would like the future Vice-Chancellor to have maritime expertise. The King of Ahti replied that the working group also said that there are currently no people from maritime backgrounds working in the Ministry, but in fact there are three persons from maritime backgrounds in the Ministry. When looking for the Vice-Chancellor of Maritime Affairs, it will certainly be seen that the elected person is able to establish a good dialogue with the sector, and certainly must have contact with maritime affairs, but should not narrow the range so that, for example, there is only international maritime law, where there are only two candidates. It was also said that representatives of the maritime organisation have raised the issue of the activities of the maritime deputy chancellor and want to know whether the Vice-Chancellor would become more involved in the maritime economy as a whole. It is now divided between many ministries. Vice-Chancellor Ahti King replied that the Vice-Chancellor of Maritime Affairs had great hopes and that he had not only to oversee the entire ministry's maritime legislation and the administration of the Maritime Administration, but also to deal with the maritime affairs of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Sven Sester pointed out that the biggest concern for the parties was that something could be duplicated on the one hand but between the gears on the other. The Ministry assured me that wouldn't happen. In addition to the topics of the two market participants, all proposals were examined in the working group, including the amendment by the Reform Party Group, which partially covered the same issues as was discussed. Kristen Michael explained that the meaning of the letter from the Reform Party was the question of separation of functions and roles, whether it was thought out and whether there had been enough time to do so, and certainly that the search for the head of the agency could have started with a targeted search. The King of Ahti replied that there must be a role in the unification of office. It was originally hoped that the leader would have formed a team for himself, but this cannot be done at the moment. Initially, we proposed a competition as a solution for the head of the Road Administration, who would automatically become the head of the new ÜÜÜ office when the merger of agencies is approved, but legal certainty does not allow it to be done, and a clause has been added to the current competition that if the merger does not come, this post would not be created. At the moment, at least there is a situation that a new leader may become available in February-March, as it will take about six months to recruit the executives of the agencies. Kristen Michal expressed the opinion that the leaders of the current offices could have taken this role and continued their duties, but the Ministry chose a different path. At this point, a targeted search should have been made for the markets that are available. There was a situation where Parliament read on the news that there would be a driver's competition, but the debate was still ongoing. The King of Ahti explained that there are important nuances to the Civil Service Act, which would not have allowed the leaders of the current offices to continue. According to the law, a new competition should have been launched and it would have been questionable how many candidates will come if it is known that the position will be lost in the near future. Kalev Kallo said that Jüri Jaanson pointed out in the working group that things should be done correctly. The consultation concluded that, since the problem exists, the Economic Commission should have been informed of this situation and consulted on the possibility of an earlier call for competition. Riho Breivel studied how different organisational cultures could be combined. Priit Sauk replied that one important aspect of preparing for the merger was the risk of the cultures of different organisations being merged. There is, in turn, an action plan which has been put together for six months and which sets out how the future can work together, what common values are that unite the Agency and what the activities are. Kai Rimmel wondered whether the additional budget had also taken into account the symbols of the combined office. Priit Sauk explained that all symbolism and visual identity must be changed, but it does not have to be ready by the beginning of January. Perhaps a few more months will be driven under other flags and colors, but after the creation of the new Commonwealth, it is planned to exchange logos on all vehicles and on advertising posters. Sven Sester said that the Economic Commission has also addressed the Institute of the Estonian Language in the name issue, and in its reply letter the Institute of the Estonian Language has analysed arguments for and against different names without mentioning the particular preference. However, they have asked to avoid hyphenated names. The Marine Language Advisory Board has pointed out in its address that the name of the agency to be created should not be the Mobility Agency. The process of finding the proposed name "Mobility Board" was also discussed. To this end, a similar competition was organised, attended by the people of the three agencies, specified by Priit Sauk. Sven Sester pointed out that the following names were now proposed: the Mobility Board, the Transport Board, the Road Administration and the Traffic Board. He also stated that the results of the vote would not be reflected in the minutes, but would be highlighted by two of the highest candidates who received the votes, and that after that the political groups would have a working week to discuss the options. In the following week, the name of the Office shall be put to the vote and the results of the vote shall be reflected in the minutes. Jüri Jaanson wanted to know the basic principles of the choice of the name, and pointed out that it is important that the name be understood by Estonians and that, if disputes were to get too sharp, the traditional rather than the new and extravagant name should remain. Priit Sauk replied that the name must certainly best convey the expectations and the content that the new U.S.A. must address. A wider range of mobility themes, cross-modal infrastructure planning, planning, service delivery and multimodal mobility ♪ all of them would be combined as one of the names of the Mobility Agency. At that time, a vote was taken among the members of the Commission to select the two most eligible names, which turned out to be the Transport Agency and the Mobility Agency. The Commission thus closed its meeting on 26 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U21	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In fact, you have a chance to have a little extra time if you want. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U22	I'd like to. Two other Commission meetings have taken place on this subject. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U23	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U24	Thank you. Five minutes. I'll try to make it faster, not so hard. The next Commission meeting took place on 9 November, then the amendments were discussed. The amendments had been tabled by the Commission and finalised as amendments by the Commission. And the question of the name was also decided on at this meeting of the Commission. The Economic Commission voted on the names. The Transport Agency and the Mobility Agency were known to be proposed. The Transport Office was voted in favour of 6 (Annely Akkermann, Riho Breivel, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Korb, Kai Rimmel, Sven Sester) and 2 (Kalvi Tõud and Kristen Michal). Thus, by decision of the Commission, the name of the new agency was chosen as Transport Authority. And, of course, in this regard, it was decided to replace the word 'Authority of Movement' with 'Authority of Transport' throughout the draft. Eight of the other nine amendments were of a technical nature, submitted by the Ministry and adopted by consensus, with the exception of the seventh amendment, which stated that 'paragraph 182 (2) replaced '16' by '40'. It concerns the rate of state fees for the registration of recreational craft. The King of Ahti explained that it is currently the case that registration at the Maritime Administration costs EUR 16 and at the Road Administration EUR 40, but the amount would be EUR 40. This amendment was voted on. 5 members of the Commission (Riho Breivel, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Korb, Kai Rimmel, Sven Sester) were in favour of this amendment and 2 (Annely Akkermann, Kalvi Tõvi) were opposed and 1 (Kristen Michal). At this committee meeting, there were also organisational proposals: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 18 November; today it went quietly to 19th. There were 5 members of the Commission (Riho Breivel, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Korb, Kai Rimmel, Sven Sester) against 1 (Annely Akkermann), with 2 abstentions (Kalvi Tõud and Kristen Michal). Secondly, propose that the second reading be stopped. There were 5 members of the Commission (Riho Breivel, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Korb, Kai Rimmel, Sven Sester) against 3 (Annely Akkermann, Kalvi Tõud, Kristen Michal). And thirdly, when the second reading is closed, propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and the final vote be taken on 25 November. There were 5 members of the Commission (Riho Breivel, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Korb, Kai Rimmel, Sven Sester) against 1 (Annely Akkermann), with 2 abstentions (Kalvi Tõud and Kristen Michal). These were the organisational decisions taken at this meeting of the Commission. On Monday 16 November, amendment No 10, which was already adopted, was discussed again and supplemented. The members of the committee, Annely Akkermann, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Korb, Kalvi Tõud, Kristen Michal and Kai Rimmel, voted unanimously in favour of this addition. Okay. Now there is an accelerated review of all Commission meetings, but it would have been possible to go further.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U25	Thank you, good waitress! You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U26	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! First, of course, Happy International Men's Day! My question is: did the committee also consider that the Riigikogu committees have the right to include a requirement for legal maritime education in the terms of application of the deputy chancellor? That's so different. If we assume every lawyer can handle the maritime area, we're lost. Did the Commission discuss this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U27	This was mentioned in the Commission and also in the working group. It was also a requirement of the Maritime Advisory Board that the Vice-Chancellor have not only maritime law, but also maritime education and maritime experience, he could have been either a captain or at least a chief mate. Such a recommendation has been submitted to the Ministry that if the Ministry were to develop the terms of the competition, this would be a requirement in these circumstances, but since the choice of the Deputy Secretary-General concerns the activities of the Ministry, this requirement cannot be written directly into the law. We will continue to try to keep an eye on this, as both the Minister and the Deputy Chancellor have promised that such claims will be entered in the terms of the competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U28	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U29	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, thank you for your thorough presentation. I feel as if I myself have attended the meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs. We're gonna have our 11th session here. And incrediblely, five callers have already signed up, only the EKRE is missing. I believe someone from the EKRE will be added. I wanted to ask you how you explain your interest in this bill. What is it that makes him so important?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U30	I think it is important that, in the maritime circles, perhaps not very objectively, there have been many waves, that now, if the Maritime Administration goes into the Commonwealth, perhaps the maritime sector will lose its importance. We know that, as a founding member of the Maritime Advisory Board, I have been actively raising this issue for 11 years, especially as President of the Advisory Board, Admiral Kõuts and other members, both an independent trade union for seafarers and a member of the Maritime Advisory Board. At first, they were pleased that the deputy chancellor's seat would come. I think this is a very big achievement. The Ministry didn't agree very much at first. Maritime affairs is a global business, and if at international meetings there are sea administration leaders at the table, but on our side there is a director of some kind of joint department, it is not equivalent. But if we're still represented by the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry, I'm saying we're not weaker in any way. And if this Vice Chancellor is gonna be, I think it's a very big achievement. But the maritime community wrote more addresses until the last minute, and the Admiral called with concern that maybe the Ministry wouldn't take the chancellor's seat. There are proper agreements, I don't think that's gonna happen. So this interest has to do with it, I guess.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U31	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have a question about the logical nature of the subsuming of this draft, i.e. how the Commission placed vital facts in a normal abstract composition. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U33	I'm so sorry, but the question was so confusing for me that I didn't understand what it meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U34	Thank you. It seems that there are no more questions than the honourable speaker does not want Kalle Grünthal to repeat his question. [[In the diner.]] But I don't think that's what I want. Thank you very much. No further questions. Now's a chance to negotiate. There really are a lot of requests here at this late hour. First, please speak to Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U35	Thank you, good manager. Happy Riigikogu members and millions of online viewers! To begin with, I must say that it is a pity that Kalev Kallo's presentation was so brief and that he could read only one of the three minutes of the meeting. Thus, some of this information could have been lost for the purposes of a thorough decision as well as for the monitoring of the transfer. But what's most important is that he started every new page that Sven Sester introduced the meeting. And I can assure you that he certainly did. That's one hundred percent. So thank you, Kalev! But now we're going to talk a little bit more seriously. The merger of agencies is close to my heart (I think the Reform Party's view is exactly the same). This subject is not new. And all the more reason is that this has to be done in such a hurry, because otherwise something will happen or will not be done, such an argument of convenience. The merger of agencies and the creation of one agency in the field of transport were already discussed while I was working there at the Ministry, it has been years. Now, when making organizational changes, my personal experience of world history also tells you that from time to time, when you read books, it means that these changes are usually more successful than looking for win-win solutions, not those where one side wins and the other half loses. At present, maritime people consider themselves to be a loser in the integration of roads, aviation and waterways. However, as a state, we have tried to set the course for this If we have taken the course where we are trying to achieve something like this and, at the same time, go in a direction where people in the maritime domain feel lost and feel that the issues have not been discussed enough, then I do not think that this is a wise way. And if you ask who's the loser, who's the winner, all areas can actually win if there's smart leadership, and you can lose all areas in the same way. Aviation is also sub-built, the area of roads is perhaps the strongest, maritime is used to being independent. In the Commission, although this may not appear from the report, it took a disproportionate amount of time to discuss what might be the name of this composite agency, and less time to discuss whether there was a risk that important enforcement and supervisory functions would overlap. And that's the problem we have. Trying to sum up now, given the late hour, I would say that adding up and looking for efficiency is the right thing to do. The people who do this, who present it, officials from Indrek Gailani to Priit Saugin and everyone else, and Ahti from the King's Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, will certainly do so with their hearts. If we want it to be a win, so that the players in this area, both in the areas of roads, aviation and waterways, can see the benefits, the win and the synergies, then I suggest that we discuss as much as possible, rather than use the argument of convenience, that now, after all these years, it has gone well. It is therefore our task to be critical as a opposition in the Reform Party. As I know about the opposition, there are people with a similar opinion who are subject to the will of the coalition, a common discipline. I'm passing on our proposal to interrupt the second reading. I hope everyone makes a decision with their hearts. If you don't, there's nothing broken, we'll fix it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U36	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U37	Thank you. I don't need extra time. The Group of the Social Democratic Party fully agrees with the words that Kristen Michal has just presented here. I'm not gonna have a long talk. It is necessary to create a Connecting Point, but there has been little searching for this joint section between the various agencies. And as we were saying, the maritime industry really feels a little left out. Kalev did not exactly reach the minutes of these last Commission sittings, but at least during the Commission sittings it seemed that this was not only the opinion of the Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group, but also the opinion of the EKRE Group, because Kai Rimmmel proposed that we take time off, we think calmly. But Sven, as the good chairman of the committee, finally managed to iron it up nicely. So the Group of the Social Democratic Party also proposes that the second reading of the draft be interrupted so that we can all discuss and negotiate this matter calmly. At this point, I must say that, when Kai made this proposal in the Commission, it was one of the few times that the Socats agreed with the EKRE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U38	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The merger of these different authorities raises the question of why to do so at all. In fact, it is part of the reform of the state. If we pursue this objective, it is unlikely that any party would oppose the merger of agencies. At least the Fatherland has clearly stood for the state to be as effective as possible in carrying out its tasks. The two previous speakers had complaints about this, and this is typical, and I have also noticed in the past that questions have not been answered or too little has been discussed. When you noticed and perhaps it also seemed a little funny to have Kalev Kallo a 25-minute walk and he couldn't tell everything. But why is that? Because if we look at how much is the Committee on Economic Affairs, I am not talking about how much the government has done to make this draft come to Parliament in the end, how much Parliament has worked on this draft to get to second reading today. This is not the case with many drafts. Work has been done at Commission level, work has been done at group level, talked to various market participants, given answers. Not all answers can be appreciated every time. But to say that it has not been discussed among ourselves that the matter has been done quickly, rashly, then I say to you: no, friends, so it certainly is not. When it comes to what is the core objective of this composite agency, it is clear that duplication is likely to decrease in the event of the composite agency, additional synergies will arise and this should be beneficial for all parties involved. Much has been said about the name of the profession. I'd like to stop at that for a second. True, as a mobility agency, he came to Parliament and today, under the name of the Transport Office, is on our table as an amendment. There was a longer debate on this subject. The Institute of Estonian Language expressed its opinion where it did not, in principle, take a position and indicated that it was possible to discuss different names. Rather, their request was not to have a hyphenated name. However, the Marine Language Advisory Board made it clear that there should not be a mobility agency and that a different name should be found. One of their proposals was the Transport Department. This proposal was subsequently clearly presented to the Commission. When it comes to interested parties, this is an amendment to the Act of the Government of the Republic, which defines the rules of procedure of the Government. The important thing is that in the case of the U.S.A., there is no situation where one or the other activity is left between two chairs for any reason. The government has confirmed that such an opportunity and situation will not arise. I have also realised that when they spoke to the Committee on Transit, the Committee on Transit approved it as a whole. It is certainly important that this has also been mentioned today from this speaker's podium, the future structural change in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, mostly the creation of a new deputy secretary. True, maritime circles have been concerned that the formation of a joint office could lead to a decline in the share of maritime transport compared to today. As a compromise and an agreement, a new position of Vice Chancellor of the Sea will be created, a position of Vice-Chancellor of Maritime Affairs, and more people will be brought there, so that the maritime sector will be more focused on us than before. If I look at what has been done today in the area of maritime affairs, bringing Estonian ships under the Estonian flag, tax changes in relation to ships, cutting red tape, etc., it could be said that the joint administration will play a role in bringing ships under the Estonian flag in the future. And this role is precisely that, while until now the Maritime Administration was primarily responsible for all marketing activities, it is now agreed that this role will be transferred to the Ministry in the case of the new Commonwealth. In this respect, it is expected that in the future the marketing work worldwide will be at a much better level. The new agency should actually start working from January next year, and I believe that all the bottlenecks and problems have been discussed today. I believe that we could vote today to ensure that the new agency can start work from the beginning of January. Thank you. No extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U40	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U41	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the lack of time left some important things unspoken, I'm talking now. At the last meeting of the Commission, Minister Taavi Aas also gave a very thorough overview of what had been done. Since the last meeting of the committee, by 16 November, received a joint public visit from the Estonian Seafarers' Independent Trade Union, the Estonian Ship Managers' Association, the Estonian Shipmen's Association and the Estonian Masters' Club, the Minister made this presentation in the light of the following points. On 28 January a meeting of the National Committee on Economic Development was held with interested parties in the maritime field. Eight specific issues were raised at the meeting. Firstly, the Convention on the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Water and its sediments, secondly, the establishment of a Blue Economy and Business-oriented Head of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, thirdly, the status of the Maritime Bills, fourthly, the Land Register status of the ship, fifthly, the extension of the support measures of EAS and KredEx to the shipping sector, sixthly, analysis and proposals on incentives for passenger ships, seventhly, the use of armed foreign security companies on ships flying the flag of Estonia, and eighthly, the ratification of the Nairobi Convention. Now for an explanation. The Ballast Water Convention is on the agenda of the Economic Commission within the framework of the Maritime Safety Act. In order to establish the position of director of maritime affairs and entrepreneurship of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the position of Deputy Secretary-General of the Maritime Affairs is foreseen and today the Agency's statute has passed the round of coordination and is ready to take it to the government. The first of the maritime drafts was the amendment of the Maritime Safety Act and other related laws, as well as the amendment of the Port Act, which has now reached the Commission's desk. With regard to the ship's land register, the developer has now transferred the ship information system to the Maritime Administration and will be tested to check the system's performance and security requirements and to identify possible problems with real use. For the support measures for EAS and KredEx, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Information Technology of the Government's Committee on Economic Development is coming and will give an overview. The analysis of the national concessions for passenger ships was carried out in connection with the COVID-19 and therefore passenger ships received similar concessions for merchant ships. The Ministry of the Interior wishes to resolve the use of armed foreign security companies on ships flying the flag of Estonia within the framework of the second draft. The ratification of the Nairobi Convention was also on the agenda for maritime safety law. The Minister wanted to say that the concerns of the maritime community and the complaining that nothing has been done are not true. Most of the eight requests made by the maritime community in the Committee on Government on 28 January have been resolved or resolved. I therefore stress in the same way that the maritime community has, in some ways, artificially and emotionally raised problems which no longer exist in many places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U42	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U43	Thank you, good Chairman! Good guardians of the Republic! Happy International Men's Day to you first! I'd like to start with a little poem, Tõnu Trubetsky: "Blow the plans if there's no walls. " In my opinion, bringing the Estonian ships under the Estonian flag was a cross-party goal in our previous composition. We're moving towards it. I can also say that I may not like the fact that we cannot support the shore sector quickly enough. But to stop reading this bill at this point simply because no one likes a name or anything else, I'm sorry, you understand, but your proposals are no longer very adequate when you invite people here to make whatever proposals to just be opposed. I expect that, in fact, the Reform Party will perceive that it is what it is, but we should move forward on this issue together and across political parties. Otherwise, it really looks like you're gonna break the planks if you don't get to the walls. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U44	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We still have a number of amendments to examine. First amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, proposed by the commission: take full account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U45	Thank you. I would ask for this amendment to be voted and supported, or rather opposed. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U46	And there was no recess request? So, I'm voting on the Economic Commission... Yeah, the bell, really. [[It's a saalikutsung.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the position of the commission is to take full account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U47	There are 64 members against 19 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was supported. Proposal No 2, presented by the Economic Commission, position of the lead committee: take full account. No 3, presented by the Committee on Economic Affairs, position of the lead committee: take full account. No 4, presented by the Committee on Economic Affairs, position of the lead committee: take full account. No 5, author of the Economic Commission, position of the commission: take full account. No 6, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, proposed by the commission: take full account. The seventh proposal, presented by the Economic Commission, the position of the lead committee: take full account. The eighth amendment, the author's Committee on Economic Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. No 9, presented by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. Amendment 10 as well as from the Committee on Economic Affairs, proposed by the commission: take full account. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 236, but before that we will vote on the proposal made by the Group of the Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party to interrupt the second reading of draft 236. Do you need a hall call? [[Voices from the floor: No.]] I shall put to the vote the second reading of draft 236. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U48	33 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the interruption and against 53 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. That concludes the second reading of Bill 236 and the sitting is also closed. Good night.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U49	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable members of the government! Let's start our weekly briefing. Today, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure Taavi Aas and Minister of Population Riina Solman. And as usual, first the registered questioners get the word. They will also have the opportunity to clarify the question, and then there may be another question in the hall. The length of the question is two minutes, the answer is three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U50	Today's first registered questioner is Kaja Kallas. [[Voices from the floor.]] Sorry, we really missed the presence check, so let's do it. Requesting presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U51	32 members of the Riigikogu are present and 69 are missing. And then let's get to the questions. The first questioner is Kaja Kallas and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U52	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! A study was published on 16 November this year, according to which nearly 60% of voters say that the marriage referendum is not currently an important issue of state life to deal with, that there are a number of other concerns that the government should address. However, we have read in the paper that today the government coalition will come up with a draft according to which this referendum on marriage will be held. My question is that when this referendum comes, it is understandable that this question can be answered in the affirmative or in the negative. Does the government also intend to campaign, i.e. use taxpayers' money either to convince 'yes' or 'no' votes? Are there plans to allocate taxpayers' money to tilt the outcome of this referendum to one side or the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U53	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you very much for this question. I fully agree that there is, I think, the most important issue in the Estonian country at the moment, when we are talking about a specific moment, the whole corona virus and the COVID-19. And this is not only the case in Estonia, but throughout Europe and the whole world. In Europe, true, the increase in infection has been the fastest recently. And I have to say that, despite other concerns, the government has been busy dealing with these issues. We deal with them all the time, a minimum of two times a week the government gathers to discuss COVID-19 issues, and not only to discuss, but also to make decisions to prevent the spread of this virus. I think that the other big and important issue is all that concerns the economy, the economic environment. It is clear that the health crisis has gone into an economic crisis, which automatically also means the issue of employment. And unemployment, losing a job, that's the trend we're seeing. It's not as big as the unemployment fund predicted in spring. Fortunately, these forecasts were wrong at the time, and this is not a criticism of the unemployment fund. However, we already have over 51000 registered unemployed. So if you position this 'other matter of state life' in the form of a referendum on which many say it is a marriage referendum, whether it is the first, second or third important issue, I think that there are more important issues that we are dealing with every day. This does not mean, however, that any issues agreed in the coalition agreement are not dealt with. And one of them is really that referendum. Yes, as far as this question is concerned, it is, of course, the decision of the Riigikogu as to what this question will be. I think it could be as close as possible to the wording of the family law, similar to that. And the question should be as specific as possible, for example, whether marriage in Estonia must remain an alliance between a man and a woman. And you're right, it requires a yes or no response. And I think we need to know whether the people of Estonia think that this should remain the case, or whether we want to extend the concept of marriage. Now, if it is a question of whether, for example, people's money will be put there, through some ministries, for example, that there will be an official campaign through the government to say 'yes' or 'no', this is certainly not the case. I do think, if I may answer this question a little more broadly, that I think it would be important that we do everything to make sure that those who contribute to this campaign, I do not know, NGOs or political parties, or anyone else, that their reports are accessible and transparent to everyone. And you have to get it checked out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U54	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U55	Thank you for your assurance that taxpayers' money will not be used for this. But I'm going to ask you a more specific question. We have EUR 500000 to raise awareness of demographic and family policies in the budget of the Minister for Population. That's a lot of money. Can you confirm that this family policy and demographic awareness campaign will not take place at or before this referendum has taken place? So it can only happen after the referendum is over, so there won't be any confusion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U56	Thank you for your question. I do not think that it can certainly be said that we are all stopping the various campaigns, I do not know, in any area, whether or not in the area you are talking about. However, it is clear that such a government campaign cannot, in my opinion, begin to influence the referendum in any way, so that the government will be said to vote either way. At the same time, it is clear that the members of the government are declaring their positions, and that makes sense. That's the way it should be, it's a political debate. But we're doing some kind of campaign for public money, I don't think that's conceivable. Now, if this particular campaign is taking place, I don't know, in January-February or June-July, I really don't have that information. I believe you can ask the Minister of Population if you have such a wish. Your groupmate Signe Riisalo should then ask this question. But I am not able to table all the campaigns in 2021 in the field of rescue, internal security, population policy, family policy, social affairs. There are actually quite a few of them, since the various safety campaigns. If the question is somehow focused on whether it is our desire to strengthen the family in Estonia, to contribute, to create certainty in terms of living environment, that the families of many children are also doing well, I am certainly not against it. It's nothing to be ashamed of, it is. But the country also has different campaigns relating to the protection of minorities. This has also been done by the state that there have been campaigns on Facebook, there have been campaigns on social media. But I think, in an attempt to understand your question, everything has to be and it has to be fair. It cannot be that there is some kind of campaign around the corner, no mention of a referendum, and it is said that in this case everything will be fine. But to stop some kind of campaign or some sort of campaign moratorium for a certain time, I certainly don't think it's right. If any communication is planned, it must be done, but of course it must not be directly or around the corner involved in influencing the referendum. I don't think that's right. But I stress once again that when the Riigikogu begins to deal with this draft Riigikogu decision, I just have one request that I want to say to the Riigikogu. Whether this is a document or some other document, but the reporting of those who are campaigning for referendums , if the third sector is doing so, the various NGOs must, in my opinion, be verifiable, it must be transparent and it must be understandable. I think it would be very reasonable to keep this in mind in favour of reporting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U57	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I would like to start my question with your answer to the previous question. Although you do not think certain things are right in Estonia, you cannot guarantee that these things will not happen. It is therefore extremely important that the state does not make hidden campaigns to invite one or the other to vote in favour of one or the other position. This could mean, figuratively speaking, that if you pointed out that we have been campaigning to protect minorities or to raise awareness of minorities in society as a whole, then these campaigns by the state should go hand in hand. We have various forms of families, and it would be particularly important that the state does not go undercover here to spend taxpayers' money. The other part of my question is actually driven by the simple questions of citizens that have come to me. Can you say in a clear and loud voice to the people of Estonia, which, under the influence of this referendum, will improve for people who are already married? I've been married for over 30 years. If this referendum is made for taxpayers' money, what will specifically improve these families? What knowledge do we expect, and what do we want to achieve to make these people's lives even better, even more positive? I am also referring here to the fact that we have a valid family law which actually confirms the same thing that is being asked in a referendum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U59	Thank you. If you want to hear from me the sentence that you cannot protect the family in the first quarter of next year, you cannot. Yes, it is, and I think it is. I do not think it is a bad thing that we say in Estonia that a strong family is important, that we try to create more and more opportunities for the first and other children to be born, but also third and fourth children, so that we also have confidence given to families with many children in Estonia. So if it's a desire to somehow politically fish out of the Prime Minister's mouth that look at the words "family" or "family" or "marriage" or "wife and man" as in the first quarter's picture, I certainly cannot say that. On the contrary, I think we need to protect a strong family. Yes, I brought to you by answering or, I'm sorry, answering Mrs. Kaja Kallas, that I thought last year we had, or that this year it was a campaign on social media to create a sense of security in various minorities. And that's right, I support it. But that we should now start to be ashamed of marriage or family, I don't support it. I'm sorry, I don't support you in any way! I think it's very right because we have strong families, we have long-term marriages. Of course, I think it's the right thing to do. Now, what I want to say is that the campaign isn't just about, I don't know, marriage, family. I told you it had to do with various safety issues. We have safety campaigns, such as the Road Administration campaign, on the railways, a third sector is making a campaign that calls for an approaching train to be noticed so that there are no train accidents with people, so that there are no train accidents with vehicles where people are inside. Such calls will certainly be made. I've had to report before you on the safety campaigns that the Rescue Board has made. There was once a very topical topic on PBK channel: how is it possible that the country is campaigning there? I remember the Rescue Board campaigned for a smoke detector there, and it became a lot of trouble in the Riigikogu Hall. But I think that, in the end, apart from politics, regardless of what is the native language of a person living in Estonia, it is important that such safety campaigns reach everyone in a nice and fast way. That's what I think is right in every way. I don't feel any false shame here when I say once again that it is necessary to stand up for our family models to be strong in any case. But now this referendum. I think it opens up a whole new dimension. This question, in fact, is in society, we cannot deny it. And I think that, on the one hand, we are actually moving faster on this course, too, that implementing legislation on the partnership law will be adopted at some point. It's not right that they haven't been accepted for five or six years. And on the other hand, this is a coalition compromise. Coalition negotiations started on a completely different subject after the annulment of the Cohabitation Act. It didn't work. But to ask people for opinions in the inter-election period, that is what I support. I think it's right. I'm sorry, Riigikogu and the Chairman of the Riigikogu, that I passed. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U60	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U61	The next questioner is Indrek Saar and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U62	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I have asked you many times, as have my colleagues, what happens to sick days. We all understand that our health indicators are becoming increasingly critical. As far as compensation for sick days is concerned, we know that the first three days can be at home with a person's own expense and letters. On this subject, your answer has been quite confusing, if you may say so. And if anything happens, first of all, on January 1st, until a month and a half. All our neighbouring countries will compensate from day one. In Latvia, it was already from the second day, and from this week onwards, it will receive compensation for the first day. And I was beginning to feel at some point that you don't understand the nature of the problem. But then I found out that already on 9 October you actually understood it in words. Speaking of these sick days, you said: "I think it is actually a serious problem, that on the one hand it is clearly stated that if a person is experiencing symptoms, he must not go to work. Please don't go to work! And we can see that, in fact, in the collectives, this infection is probably the biggest at the moment, actually based on the information from the Health Board." Prime Minister! If you see that the health situation is getting out of hand, and one of the concerns is the fireplaces in the workplace, why don't you do anything about sick days? And when will you give us a concrete and clear answer on this subject, will there be anything or will nothing come? Please respond specifically when and under what conditions people can expect that if they do not go to work with the symptoms of the disease, their costs will at least be partially covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U63	Thank you. I'm with the same words today. I think it's right that we all try to make sure that when a person has symptoms, he doesn't go to work. Not to mention, when a person feels completely ill, he doesn't go to work. Now I will also answer the question that you asked me: do I consider it right? I understand that you want to do as stated in the bill that you have invented: that you will also be reimbursed from the first to the third day. You are well aware that the negotiations that have been with employers and trade unions have, at the moment, been able to find some common ground that we are bringing the reimbursement day forward. We're not starting with the fourth, we're starting with the second day. And the answer to the question, when can I say a specific date when such a system will be possible or its close system, which was in the spring: when this decision has been made. We have not made that decision at the moment; these discussions are ongoing. Of course, once and for all, it must be decided either way by the Riigikogu, even if we do so temporarily. It was also a legislative amendment in spring. Today, one form or type of reimbursement is quarantine sheets for close contacts when the family doctor says that someone must stay home. But I personally agree with you that further work is needed in this direction, that this solution must be found as soon as possible. We also have to take into account that, in addition to keeping people at home, other effects are involved. The impact on our economic environment must be taken into account, the impact on our companies must, of course, also take into account the financial impact. However, they are all secondary in my opinion. The primary thing is that people's health is protected so that their lives are protected. It must not happen that a person goes to work sick and infects his or her workmates, which, in turn, may lead a little later to the fact that he or she cannot work as a whole. But yes, I don't have to tell you today that date. I have to say that these discussions will continue at the level of the government, and when we come to a solution, we will try to bring this proposal before the Riigikogu as soon as possible. But I want to tell you, Mr. Saar, that in any case I commend you for keeping this subject up. This is an important issue, and I will say to you that I, too, am dealing with it at government level. You may find it a little easier to ask this, but as an experienced politician, you understand very well that it also needs to be agreed with the various actors at government level. This is an agreement we are trying to reach, and no government party has said that this is not appropriate under any circumstances. So this job is going on right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U64	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U65	However, from your reply, I am forced to conclude that you, as Prime Minister, are not of great benefit to the people of Estonia today. You say that you understand that this is a time-critical issue, and it depends on people's health. I hope you will understand that every day that you have missed out on this decision will bring us closer to putting your whole life back on hold, and its losses will be tens of times greater than the possible cost of the early reimbursement of sick days. For example, on 9 October there, at the government press conference, you said: "And I believe that we will try to find the best solution for this in the near future. " Where is the solution, Prime Minister? But if you don't want to answer me, please answer those people you told then and now you say, "Don't go to work if you have any symptoms." Respond to those people who receive less than EUR 1 000, such as this 700-euro single mother, who now has to give up at least EUR 100 of her income in November and manage at least EUR 600 in December. How does he cover his Christmas table in December? Does he have any hope that he can make some basic gifts and pay his bills? Or should he go somewhere and ask for a loan? Please answer these people what they should do! Do you want to go to work or make the choice where they can't actually cope with their daily routine?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U66	Thank you. Mr. Island! I believe you think today's Prime Minister isn't a good thing. You have to say it, it's understandable, it's political rhetoric. But you fell on your back from your own trick. You ask some very emotional questions that have a very large grain of truth in them. Those earning a low or average salary have three days to hire a pretty heavy minus that in their current account at the end of the month when they get paid for that month. But why are you on your back from your own trick? It's very easy to answer that. The reason is that, as far as I know, this system has been in existence in Estonia for over ten years, if I am not mistaken, then 11 years. The Social Democrats have been in government for a very long, very long time during this period, Mr Island, and not only in the government, but also in the Ministry of Social Affairs. And I have not seen or heard that this subject has been so close to your heart in the last 11 years. You have the right questions. How can low-paid people, if their salary is less than EUR 1 000 or a little more, actually manage? Yes, I think that everything needs to be done to find a compromise and make a decision that, even temporarily, at the top of this virus, we are trying to do something like this in the spring. And that's what we're working on today, that's what I told you. I understand you're not okay with this. You're saying it's no good. But to the questions that you asked me, I am now answering the people of Estonia completely seriously and openly that we are working to find this solution. There is no solution at the moment. But I'm gonna ask you back, even though I don't have the format. But what did you do for 11 years? For 11 years, you were in the government, the Ministry of Social Affairs, and you let go of that opportunity. Day one to day three, nothing will be compensated. The fourth to eighth day is paid by the employer and then by the sickness fund. This is not an attack on you or against the Socialists, because I say that there is a very big truth in your questions. The situation is difficult, which is why we need to find a solution. As I said, I do not have that date to say today, but at least I have to say that the government is working on it and we are trying to find a solution as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U67	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U68	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! Indeed, for so long, the Social Democrats have not been in government, but for the past four years or so long, you have been Prime Minister. I got the impression from your current statement that you're like a psychic. The kroon virus actually came in early this year, but you're telling me that 11 years ago this extraordinary crown virus should have been prepared. This is not the solution for the sick today, nor for those who have to remain in quarantine at home. What I also want to ask you about is wearing a mask. You've said it's strictly recommended. But it doesn't really work! I can give you an example, even today in the Riigikogu. Many officials do not have a mask in front of them, even most of those who come to visit the Riigikogu. There are groups with masks on, but those people who aren't in the group don't have masks on. And we'll see the same situation in the shops and elsewhere. If we do not want, after a while, perhaps next week you will come out by the fact that the Estonian state is locked again, then there should be a message: it is strictly mandatory, not strictly recommended. It's just today that people who wear masks protect those who somehow don't want to put on a mask and think it won't happen to me. I'm not getting sick. My question is: how do you actually protect people's lives and health if the first day does not pay people sick benefits and if wearing a mask is not mandatory? Do we want the country to lock up again?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U69	Thank you. First of all, are you suggesting that for 11 years there was no viral disease, no infectious disease in Estonia? That now came the first time a COVID-19 disease, a corona virus? We've had the flu all along. This principle of not coming to work as a sick person has really become more valid. I agree with that. This message has become more and more common. Yeah, we have a virus today that doesn't mind a vaccine. It can be said that the majority of vaccines for influenza are available for those who want to give the injection. But that for 11 years everything was fine, and only now it's a problem, yet it's not true. And I say again: I am not saying that your attitude is wrong. I think it's right, and that's really what I'm working for right now. Now forward, wearing masks. We must take into account that if we say that the mask is compulsory, the state will also be sanctioned for breaching the requirement. If the mask is compulsory, the penalty is in principle up to EUR 800. That's point one. Up to 800 euros! Point two is that you say that we will make the mask mandatory, otherwise we will lock the Estonian state. I don't agree with that at all. The mask is not a magic wand. The mask is not a magic wand! We can't say that if the mask is mandatory, R0 is going to fall. Please, Mrs. Pikhof, send me some scientific articles that say that the mask protects against both: so that whoever can carry the virus does not pass it on, as well as ensuring that a healthy person does not get the virus. Personally, I think wearing a mask is the right thing to do. I'm wearing a mask. Right now, I'm not wearing a mask because I've been told that the hearing people are asking me not to wear a mask in Question Time. That's why I give interviews without a mask. In shops and gas stations and so on, I'm wearing a mask. But what I'm saying is, the mask isn't a magic wand. As far as the mask is concerned, the debate has reached the point that it has been recommended so far. I would say that this is now the last line where the Health Board is currently monitoring how well the mask is worn, for example on a bus, for example in a theatre, for example in a shopping mall. Yes, I agree with you. I also go to the grocery store quite diligently, several times a week, and I cannot say that the mask has become more than half the standard. This visual observation may offer 20%, at best 30%, but not much more. I think you could wear a mask, but there are rules about wearing a mask. You gotta change it, you gotta put it in the right way. And I do not agree at all that Estonia was once strictly locked. I couldn't imagine it at all. If we compare our situation with what is today in many European countries, Estonia has still been very liberal or very free. And the accusation that the Prime Minister is not doing anything, and the government is not doing anything, we are working with the scientific council all the time, and we continue to have quite good figures thanks to the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U70	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U71	The next question, in order number 3, will be presented by Signe Riisalo and will be answered by the Minister of Population Riina Solman. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U72	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Prime Minister for referring a member of the Riigikogu by name to ask questions in Question Time. I'm taking this opportunity you've offered me. Perhaps Riina Solman then first answers how many euros this year was used for campaigning to support family values. But I will now come to my prepared question. Migration is a very important part of population policy, and we know very well that our demographic figures will be putting all systems that are important to us in the near future. The coherent Estonian development plan discusses the various measures that you deal with in the area of population. The Internal Security Development Plan, in turn, talks about immigration issues, but there are not many soft and supportive measures. My question is: what is Estonia's position to encourage immigration for these people, to lure them here, who are learners, workers, educated people with different trainings, who are at the age of family creation, ready to wear here to confirm and raise their children, to create a family?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U73	Thank you very much for your question. The first question was how much money, how many euros this year has been in the budget of the Minister of Population for promoting or promoting family values. Let me get this straight. This year there has not been a single euro. There have been instruments so that we can start our own programme, create a long-term vision to support the birth rate and deal with the parental benefit and family mediation system. The draft budget planned for next year, which also passed through the Committee on Social Affairs, has, as I understand it, excited the senses mostly in the Reform Party. I saw that link. Raimo Poom has just published a story in Delfi that you're worried about not going to the referendum campaign? No, this draft budget has nothing to do with a referendum. Our idea and idea was to tell you exactly what was on the slide, which was also introduced to the Commission to raise demographic awareness in the country and society. When someone read last night's Postman, political scientist Martin Mölder talked long and hard. He spoke of the fact that all Estonians probably agree on one thing: that we should ensure the sustainability of the Estonian language, nationality and culture together. We all know that a generation born in the nineties has reached birth age, a generation that is one third smaller and has fewer children. This means that the Estonian population is actually constantly shrinking. That is why, I hope, we have been thinking, together with you in the Committee on Social Affairs and also with the members of the Committee on Trouble with the Population Crisis, of developing and implementing measures that support families who have decided to have children. According to studies, half, and even more than half, have wanted to have at least three children, but also more. So, in fact, people have the ideal to have big families, but not everything gets to that, and not everyone knows the possibilities. Now the second question concerning migration and development plans and the position of Estonia in bringing qualified workers here. As you know, there are quite a few sectors out of quota, a sector producing high added value for the Estonian state. In fact, we can bring workers together with our families very easily, and in terms of mobility, Estonia is one of the most liberal countries with the rules of learning mobility. There is no concern that we would somehow prevent such migration or be a closed state. It never was. The question is whether we manage migration wisely or not. And I have to say that, as Minister of Population, I also deal with the subject of new immigrants in the Ministry of the Interior and we have an adaptation programme that we offer to all those who come to our country, the relevant courses. It is a service that teaches Estonian at A1 level, introduces Estonian legislation and other topics that help them to adapt more easily here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U74	Signe Riisalo, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U75	Thank you. You had little time to answer the previous question. On my question, the word "mouse" also sounded. How could people be attracted here, creating more favorable opportunities for them? But the second, supplementary question I have is one that's a little uncomfortable to ask because it's personal. As we know, we were together a few weeks ago at a conference where a person who was ill with COVID also attended. I received a letter from the Health Board that I might have been in contact with a patient, which I asked the Health Board for details and received a self-insulation obligation. The same happened to another member of the Riigikogu and also to the day moderator who works in the "Ringview." I have a question: why didn't you probably react to the same call to the Health Board and not be self-insulated? You also participated in public events during this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U76	Thank you very much for the very important question. I don't think it's very personal, it's a completely public matter, which I'd be happy to answer. I did not receive a letter from the Health Board, nor did I receive a message from the robot, nor did I receive a call that I would have been in close contact with the patient. All of our data was on this list with phone numbers, so was my data. And we did sit next to you at that conference. I did it, I moved around outside, I moved around on the spot, but I didn't get word from the Health Board robot. Five days later, on Wednesday, November 4, there was a Father's Day conference. Five days later, it became clear from acquaintances that there was a corona-positive person involved. I repeat: I did not receive notification from the Health Board robot or by e-mail or telephone. When I had learned that a person with a corona illness was present at the event, I approached specialists, understood, and took the test. I went into isolation the same night until morning, then it turned out the test was negative. Once again, I understood and found that if I hadn't been in close contact with a sick person and hadn't received any message from a Health Board robot, I could work on a mask. A few days later, I ran a retest just in case, which gave me another response: negative. I also checked with the Health Board, and with very high experts on how to handle it. The answer is that if there has been no close contact within 15 minutes with the sick person, standing next to him, and the robot has not sent any information, then it does not really have to be isolated. And when we think that you and I were together in that big hall, should this whole nation have gone into isolation, plus the workmates we've been in contact with in five days, and all the family members that have been in contact with in five days? If this were to be the case, the whole of Estonia should be already isolated and public services could not be provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U77	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that our Home and Working Procedures Act provides that you can, of course, ask ministers anything that concerns their activities and their work, as well as other matters, but the questions must fit into the subject which has been previously registered. The topic "Estonian Positions" was currently registered. But please, Urve Tiidus has a chance to ask a question now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister of Population, I will then ask you, according to the guidelines, about Estonia's positions. Undoubtedly, Estonia's positions concern our future, the birth of children, the future of families, etc. You have argued on several occasions that one problem in Estonia is that demographic awareness is low. Many are unaware or have not heard that there is an increasing population crisis in Estonia. Right! This is also said by the Prime Minister just said that it is important to stand up for family models to be strong. Who can be against that? But I ask you, how does raising demographic awareness, which in itself is a noble plan, an awareness of this problem, affect feelings and love, which are the main preconditions for families and children to be born? A bit philosophical, but it would be interesting to hear what you think.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U79	Thank you, Urve Tiidus, for a really interesting question and for sharing this common concern about the knowledge of demography and the low birth rate. Does it have to do with love? Philosophically, you can meditate on that. Surely having children has to do with love. Unfortunately, we have regard to whether parenthood is appreciated in Estonia, whether mothers and fathers are valued not only in professional and outstanding careers, but also when they are good parents, in my opinion, shortcomings. Yes, of course, when we talk about love, children are really born of love, but they are also born because the couple feel safe: that the mother feels safe, that the father knows that there is a job tomorrow and that he will receive a salary for which he can buy everything he needs for the family. The fact that we really want to deepen this awareness of parenting, as well as of being in a relationship, is to be welcomed. Teachers are also involved in family education, and the sooner people are educated in this field, the better. But how to choose a living companion, what are the opportunities to create a family in the first place, what are the support schemes? The awareness about this is very low. Just recently I was on a Russian show, I don't remember its name. But a young woman living in Maardu who is married and a mother of four children and whose eldest child is a cancer patient and, in this sense, with a very severe disability, did not know of her right to receive help from the community. When he went there for suggestions, he got a social dwelling for his family with four children, but it was actually in a very poor condition. In general, social housing is still given to a person in such a way that the conditions are better. But the woman's awareness of what her rights were extremely low. I believe that there was also a language problem and a lack of ability to seek help, but there are people who do not really know their rights, the possibilities of receiving support. In this sense, any awareness raising concerning family planning, state subsidies and local government grants in this area or at all, in fact needs to be improved. After all, the state cares about parents who want to raise children. I can give you another example. We know that if there is a family with many children, some mothers decide to raise their children at home. You and I know it's a very big job. Your spare time, your career, your professional accomplishments are in the background because you raise children. And when the last child has turned 18, this mother no longer has national health insurance through her husband. He basically doesn't have public health insurance. It would take 14 million a year, we've calculated it. But now this mother, who has worked very hard and worked hard for society, has raised several children, who are future taxpayers, who will take Estonia's life forward in our society, does not have national health insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U80	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U81	So let's get to question number four in order. It will be presented by Aivar Sõerd and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I had exactly the same question last week. It didn't come to that in a lack of time. Now it worked. What's the matter? Weeks ago, in a radio broadcast, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance now made a statement in which they questioned the credibility of the last Estonian elections and the credibility of e-voting and claimed that there were counterfeits in the elections. Well, that led to a statement by the Minister of the Interior about his resignation. But on Monday, the next day, the Minister of Finance was here before the Riigikogu, he was dealt with expressing distrust. I asked him: if you claimed that there were counterfeits in the e-elections, why didn't they initiate proceedings? He continued in the same spirit as he did in the radio show that they came to the government when the elections were over and the deadlines for opening proceedings were over. Now it's been going further in a week. The head of the electoral service has unequivocally rejected the false statements that sounded in the broadcast, and the Security Council has unequivocally rejected these false statements. Consequently, I ask here for your clear assurance that the last elections in Estonia were fair, that the e-vote was credible, that Estonia's e-elections were secure. I would ask you to refute the false claims that there have been counterfeiting during the last Estonian elections and that the Estonian e-vote system is unreliable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U83	Thank you, Honourable Aivar Sõerd. I have several positive messages for you. One is that you broke through this bureaucracy, and today's 11th question, which I was informed about an hour ago, has been raised to four. I think that is very commendable. So I thank the Chairman of the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu and you for this consistent work so that we can have this dialogue. I was very sad last time that it didn't come to a discussion. Point one. Point two. I was reminded of your question that the Ambassador of Latvia asked to pass on the best wishes to the Riigikogu. I went to congratulate him, it's Independence Day in Latvia, 102 years, and he asked me to give you the best wishes. I remembered that at the beginning of Question Time, I forgot about it. Now I just remembered that thing. Mr. Aivar Sõerd! The Estonian elections are credible, the Estonian elections are transparent, the Estonian elections are fair. I do not have the slightest information that the last elections are somehow falsified. You only want to know about the e-elections. This is what I said about the e-elections, but it was also about the ballots. It was for both of us. And now it may seem very strange for me to say that. It is known that the Centre Party has rather been critical of these e-elections, rather critical. I, on the contrary, have always said that I trust them. I say, good people, if you have a wish, come and give an e-voice! E-voice is secure and secure to give. It doesn't matter whether you live in the area of settlement or dense settlement in Estonia, you are younger or older no matter what. And we see that, in fact, the e-vote has grown very significantly over the last 15 years. Last time, I think, even more than half the people already made a choice on the e-way. So I call for this opportunity to be taken. But if anyone wants to go to the polling station, they can do it. This opportunity always exists even on Sunday. The way it used to be, they dressed themselves up and went to the polling station. Now people have a lot of busy business, they want to vote on the e-elections, and it's getting more and more comfortable. In the next elections, you can vote even longer. There are no more home stations, electronic lists are coming. So a lot of positive things. Look, you said a wise sentence that the Minister of Finance said that they came to the government when the elections were over. That's what you just told me. It's a two-way thing. On the one hand, there will always be a government when the elections are over, but on the other hand it can be said that there will be a government before new elections are held. Depends on where you look.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U84	Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U85	Thank you! Thank you for your answer. Now, let's get on with it. How, then, is it that the Minister of the Interior has resigned, the Minister of Finance, who expressly questioned the integrity of the elections, continued in this spirit here in the Riigikogu? And yesterday, the EKRE has made a statement rejecting what was said and what conclusions were reached in the National Defence Council. You're a member of this too. I ask you: do you tolerate a situation where your government's Minister for Finance is falsely claiming the credibility of the elections, with allegations of counterfeiting? Why are you tolerating such a thing? And could it be that, on such a very fundamental, big issue, false claims and unfounded doubts are being thrown into the air?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U86	Thank you, Mr. Sõerd. Well, you guys want to hit everything with one stick. You can't do that. We have a democratic rule of law, people have opinions, their beliefs, and they must be expressed. Freedom of speech! God forbid it stays in force. That's the way it's supposed to be. As I told you, I'm an e-election, I'd say even, fan, supporter. Honestly, I am. I think it gives people a lot of comfort. Now I may be getting personal, but there's not a lot of people who can hear this conversation. But my very good co-worker, whom I sincerely respect, Taavi Aas here next to me, I think he has a completely different opinion about e-elections than I do. But yet we can work very well together, work very effectively together. I'm not saying he has to go somewhere because of it. Don't you say that either! People can have different opinions. Whoever wants to vote on the e-road, who wants to go to the polling station and does it the way he wants to do it. What am I supposed to say to Javier? He is doing a very good job as Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, building. We just spoke to you a few days ago, and I think you also acknowledged that the government has taken a strong course in designing two-way roads. We're gonna meet Tartu. And all the other positive things that are currently involved in road construction. Am I supposed to tell Javi that I can't do this anymore? On the contrary, I say go ahead, power to you! It doesn't matter that he evaluates the e-vote one way or the other. That's right. Now we're coming to the National Defence Council. The National Defence Council, as far as I know, is of an indicative nature, it is the recommended body of the President of the Republic. What the President says is right to say, and I am not going to comment on what was said or not said there. It's the president's role, he knows exactly what he wants to say out there or what he doesn't want to say out there. But once again, if we go to this forgery story, that the elections aren't fair, I don't have the information to make it that way. I'm here on a boat with you. Okay, well, give me a statement, then give me a statement, okay, to the law enforcement authorities, if you've seen it. Perhaps, during the elections, attempts have also been made to forge the results of the ballots or to do other pranks or bad things. That may have been the case, but I believe that then the election committee has responded. But these have been individual cases. I don't know there's a mass of them. I understand the Reform Party likes e-elections, of course. Every time these election results come, the Reform Party gets 102 out of 101 of the Riigikogu, and then it kind of starts coming together. Well, I'm a little overreacting. But, you know, it seems to me that the other parties are coming quietly after you, and I'm working to make sure that the Centre Party is at one point in the e-elections with you on the same stick and the ballot then we'll go by. Okay, here's what we're
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U87	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U88	Thank you. Prime Minister! Indeed, for years and years in opposition, the Centre Party has questioned the results of e-voting. And now I'm glad you admit otherwise today. I very much hope that all those fellow parties of yours who, before you became head of the government, were of a different opinion have also come along with this. But now the question about the EKRE. So what's the problem with EKRE that they've questioned the e-elections? Is it that they got too many votes in the election, or did some people not get as many votes as they hoped? That the neighbor failed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U89	Thank you very much for your question. It's not just me who thinks it. The Centre Party even has a council decision to support e-elections. But I'm not gonna promise you that now, if I say something, all middle partyers should sing the same song and the same chorus. It's not like that. I even had this creep on the inside for a second when you asked me that. Is it true in the Social Democratic Party that when Indrek Saar says something ahead, all ten yes, ten: his plus nine, plus the Kaljulaid sing the same song? I don't think so. It would be very scary if it was in your party that Indrek would say something, and then everyone would do what they had to do. We don't have that kind of thing. The Centre Party is a democratic party, it is a broad-based party, and indeed, the plurality of opinions is great in this party. So to give you here a promise that all the Central Partymen, you might want three drops of blood to confirm that everyone says that e-elections are nice, I'm not gonna do that. I know we have a lot of people who are skeptical about this, who think it's right to still have to choose a polling station. And that is what I think democracy is all about. In the Social Democratic Party, this is, I think, also important. It can't be that the party chairman says, and that's it. We don't have that kind of thing anyway. So I don't think we're gonna have that kind of singing. But to be serious, the share of e-elections has increased more and more from elections to elections. I think it shows this, point one, that people want to use it. And I think the main reason why people use it is actually comfort, time saving. But there's no way we can rule out there's no other way. In Estonia, I think, there will be two alternative options. I do not know that there would be any way to question the local elections or the elections to the Riigikogu or the elections to the European Parliament so much that it would have been lost. On the contrary, the real aim is to modernise this system, to increase security, and this has always been the day-to-day work of the electoral committee and the electoral service. Now the RIA has been taken in. I think that's very commendable. Cybersecurity, cyber security is important. E-elections need to be made more and more secure. And I think the Minister for IT and Foreign Trade is working on it. At least that's the information he's given me. But I think we should work with you now. Neither are you doing very well with these e-elections, just like my party. As I said: Reform Party, 102 about the Riigikogu, well, a little more has been added. We both have to make an effort, we both have to make an effort, and then we'll have better results.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U90	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U91	Question number 5 posed by Jaak Juske. He'll be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U92	Honourable Chairman! Good Prime Minister! It is good to see that you are in a fun mood today, although the situation in Estonia is very serious. My question concerns the situation and the spread of the virus in Estonian schools. As we know, we now have the largest viral lesions in schools. They're spreading fast. There are already 40 schools in Harjumaa alone with very large viral lesions. At the same time, it is known that these fires have often started with teachers coming to work sick. I actually understand the teachers' concerns. If they hear from the government that teachers' salaries are frozen for the next four years and, at the same time, the government is unable to make a decision to reimburse the sick days from day one, then I understand this concern. And here's the question: Mr. Prime Minister, why does the government delay with such an important decision and have not sent a decision to the Riigikogu that sickness days will be reimbursed from day one? This would really help to prevent the emergence of such new large viral lesions. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U93	Thank you. Today, we really have the information that the number of young people infected with the crown virus has increased. Yeah, that's right, that's right. We can see that infection has increased between the ages of 10 and 19. And really, you're right, even among schoolchildren, this growth is very fast, in schools it's very fast. This is, of course, very worrying. However, I think that if you want to say where it is the highest percentage, you should not argue about it. It is clear that infection is within the family circle, is in the workplace, but certainly also in the education system. Well, I can see that you still have what Heljo Pikhofki wants to inject into other political parties: just like the party chairman in front, so do the others. Indrek Saar asked it exactly, and you will be driving the same question in the wind now three questions later. But, well, let him be. I mean, I'll tell you this. First of all, if you attack by not valuing the teachers, and you repeatedly bring in the aspect of teachers' pay, then, Mr. Juske, you have also been a schoolmaster yourself. I've met you at Gustav Adolf High School, which was a very pleasant meeting, and the children there were very supportive of you. What I'm trying to say is that in the last four years, we've really raised teachers' salaries. Yes, I dare say it from here with absolute conviction. We've raised it, we've raised it a lot. This increase has not been sufficient, the teachers' average wage has not reached 120% of the average wage in Estonia, but it is close to 110% of the average wage, grams below it. And let us be honest, however, every year this increase has been in the order of 100 euros, the last year a little less, 65 euros. But this increase is about 60 euros, which is still a significant increase in the minimum wage for teachers. This has also led to an increase in teachers' average wages. I completely reject the fact that for the next four years, teachers' salaries have been frozen. Well, where do you take it? How do you know that?! You will see for yourself these economic forecasts. Today comes 4.5% growth, tomorrow comes tomorrow, figuratively 0%. You are well aware that we will come back to this in April 2021 when we discuss it in the course of the country's budgetary strategy, in view of the next four years. Yeah, next year, the public payroll is frozen, but that doesn't mean four years has been frozen. That's completely wrong. Please take those words back! As I said, this is what we are seriously dealing with next April. And then we'll see. So far, in the field of education and research, I believe that very important steps have been taken: teachers' salaries, which have increased over four years, now to R &amp; D at 1% of GDP, which will be fixed next year, but also in the country's budget strategy. These are big things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U94	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U95	Thank you. Prime Minister! You know very well that freezing teachers' salaries for four years is stated in the country's budget strategy. I also wanted to stress that the reimbursement of sick days is not important to me, not just to the social democrats, but to the whole of Estonia. Unfortunately, we will not get an answer from you about when this very necessary draft will end up in the Riigikogu. But what I want to ask you is that if we agree that the virus is spreading very quickly today, what are the red lines for the government, the figures for which more lockdown will take place in Estonia? When will stricter restrictions come? Have you set any criteria?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U96	Thank you. Well, what do you mean you didn't get an answer from me? Yes, you did! Mr. Island was a very interesting debate here in Question Time. I think you were in your room maybe listening to it on the radio or I don't know. I don't think there were any of you in the hall. As far as sick days are concerned, the important principle for me is that if a person is ill, he must not go to work. For the first three days, could we begin to compensate them? Yes, we are working to find these solutions. At the moment, there are no such solutions. If they do, we'll let you know. Employers and trade unions have found a certain compromise to bring the start of reimbursement to the second day instead of the fourth day. All of this I answered Mr. Island for a very long and thorough time. I thought he understood, even though he said he didn't like the answers. Well, I understand he doesn't like those answers. But that's the way it is right now. I've answered that. Now, you want red lines. Well, I don't know why you want red lines. I want blue black and white lines. I want blue black and white lines! What do I mean by that? I think the politics of drawing these red lines all the time that are these red lines... Do you want us to move forward with this COVID-19, I don't know that you're taking a lesson from the car's glove compartment on how to change the passing beam bulb? It's not like that. It wasn't like that in the spring. I remember then we had a debate about how to get out of this virus. I kept saying that imposing restrictions would be easier than getting out of them. Today, your groupmate has just said that Estonia must not be locked. In fact, I think you have an inconsistency in the group, you want restrictions. Well, which one do you want to choose? But what do I want to say? Estonia was not locked in the spring, and it is still not. We have, I'd say, two big goals. First, a scheduled treatment. We're going to make sure it doesn't lock up as long as we can. We see that in some places scheduled treatment has been reduced, but the scheduled treatment has to continue. And another major objective is related to our education system: that we can still go on with contact training in the majority of cases. I think the negative experiences of distance learning have been very difficult for society. For example, mental health. A lot of students disappeared from the education system, but they didn't really come along with distance training. Unfortunately, it came down to a lot of fatal cases like this. These are two things that we are working for. What's the score today? From yesterday, the new rules came into force: 2 + 2 rules in shops and shopping centres, together only up to two people are allowed to move, except for the family, we protect the family here. The others must keep a distance of at least two metres. Point one. 10 + 2 rule in catering, entertainment, cultural institutions: 10 people may be present in one group and the remaining people must be kept at a distance of two metres. Third, the restriction on the sale of alcohol until 26 January: sales are prohibited from 00:00 to 10:00. Specific clear rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U97	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U98	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I would very much like you to be as passionate as you are when you talk about what the Social Democrats could have done, even if you were talking about what the Social Democrats have done in different governments. For example, the increase in child benefits, the increase in disability benefits, the allocation of additional money to the health insurance fund. That, of course, with the coalition partners. But then your story would be well balanced. I quite believed earlier, and I still believe that when you spoke when you became Prime Minister, it is not the one who initiates a good idea that matters, but the important thing is that we do the good thing together, you think so. At the same time, my belief has begun to be broken that the Government's position on the draft on compensation for sick days, which comes to first reading in this Chamber today, is negative. The Committee on Social Affairs proposed to vote it out. However, the draft could have been left in the process. If the government has an agreement that sickness days can be reimbursed from the second day onwards, the amendments could achieve a common goal. There could be good things in politics, important things being done together. I understand that it is important for you, however, to compensate for sick days and to give people clear messages. I have the question: why, as long as there is agreement with employers and trade unions, has not been a temporary option, as was the case in the spring? For this, the government should be commended that it was then done that the sickness days from the government reserve or the sickness fund were temporarily compensated for.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U99	Thank you, Helmen! I don't know, it's exactly as folk wisdom says: where you talk about the wolf, there's a wolf coming. I wanted to start talking about Mr. Ossinovski in the light of the positive news, and I can see that the hopper came to this hall. There was no deal with him. I agree that the Social Democrats have done a lot of good things. You reminded me of the money from the Health Insurance Fund. It was Evgen's fight. Evgeni's fight was for retirement to cover people's health insurance for the state. The fight was serious in this regard when drawing up the country's budget strategy. Yeah, he dragged it, but we did it together. We did it together! So I'm not the one with the honours. Now, this government. When we talk about the Health Insurance Fund, the last decision was over 500 million for four years: 540 million. EKRE, Fatherland, Centre Party. After all, there are tax cuts, and we should not actually reduce the planned treatment. No, I don't think there's any need to praise these good decisions. The rise in children's benefits, you always say that, it's your bread number. I'm not saying anything bad about it. However, it cannot be said that what this criticism is now, like families of many children, must not be mentioned at all. What the hell is this? On the contrary, they must also be supported. After all, there is support from a family with three or more children and then, if there is, say, seven plus children. These subsidies have also risen in recent times. I am not saying that it has somehow contributed to the birth of third, fourth or fifth children, but it has, in any case, given families of many children a little more social security, and that is important. Now, this whole health fund thing. I have no problem telling you that you really are not the lucky one. Just as your Chairman, Indrek Saar, is very serious about this reimbursement of sick days from day one to day three. He's put a lot of emotion in there. I don't mind basically, but there's gotta be a solution. As I said to Mr Island, there is also an economic aspect, an aspect of entrepreneurship, and that is also a financial aspect. Yeah, you're right, that money comes from two places: the state budget, or right now, quickly from the reserve of the Government of the Republic or the health insurance fund. That is what we are working on to find this solution. Is this going to be the first day you want it to be? We also need to see what the trade unions say, what employers say. They see a slightly different model: that it should be from the second day. So there is still work to be done on the solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U100	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U101	Next is question number six. The questioner is Annely Akkermann and is answered by Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U102	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This week the Riigikogu committees discussed draft amendments to the Aliens Act and other laws 241. The Riigikogu Information System has been uploaded to this bill 14 opinions, the content of which was summarised yesterday at the constitutional committee meeting by your party partner Andrei Korobeinik, who said that he does not remember any draft legislation from his practice, to which everyone is opposed and which no interest group supports. According to the explanatory memorandum, the purpose of the draft is to ensure that foreigners whose stay is in Estonia's interest can stay in Estonia. In other words, the aim of the draft is to combat illegal immigration and employment. It's all right and justified, isn't it? Unfortunately, they speak of the 14 opinions sent to the Riigikogu that the draft in question is intended to restrict the development of companies and sectors that are legally operating and transporting the Estonian economy by restricting work, working time and pay. Here's my question. I'm sure you're familiar with this bill. The Ministry you manage, which is responsible for the development of the Estonian economy, has coordinated this draft. On the basis of what arguments did you coordinate this draft amendment to the Aliens Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U103	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! According to my memory, on this bill, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications issued a negative opinion, which I and the then IT Minister Kaimar Karu did. There are three parties to the government. The opinions of these parties on certain issues may be different, but we are based on what has been agreed upon to form a government. I certainly think that there are certain sectors in Estonia where the demand for migrant labour is higher for various reasons. We certainly have those sectors that are actually open to migrant work, where migrant workers can come very easily in Estonia. These are certainly those sectors where we want to see very rapid development, very knowledge-intensive sectors. However, there are also sectors where there is a need for migrant labour simply because Estonians do not want to work very hard in these sectors today, they do not tend to work there. Unfortunately, this is the case, not only in Estonia, but also in many other European countries. This also shows that we have moved forward from the development of our society and that our wishes are somewhat higher than in the past. In order to satisfy the labour needs of these sectors, I consider it reasonable and right that foreign workers can come to Estonia, but I also consider it important that the migrant workers who come to Estonia do not affect the wage levels of these sectors in Estonia as a whole. We all know that there are very strong trade unions in our neighbouring Finland, who, when Estonian construction workers began to go to Finland, took very clear steps to ensure that the wages of Finnish builders are not affected by the Estonian workforce. Unfortunately, there are no strong trade unions in the sectors where there are many migrant workers in Estonia. So it is also essential that the state regulates more so as not to have unfair competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U104	Annely Akkermann, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U105	Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I am pleased that both you and the Minister for Foreign Trade understand the negative impact of this draft on economic development. But, of course, I do not understand that, although you, as the leading coalition partner, were in a negative position, this draft is still in our proceedings. I will mention here some of these 14 issues mentioned in the opinion. These are unreasonable restrictions that have a negative impact on Estonia's reputation, reducing Estonia's attractiveness to outsiders as both a country of residence and a country of employment. There are also restrictions on working time, restrictions on businesses whether they can concentrate and re-create jobs. In addition, visa problems and wage criteria. Estonia is a small and open economy. I understand that I, you and the major Estonian entrepreneurs agree that the implementation of this draft would undermine the development of the Estonian economy. My question is this: would you be willing to persuade your coalition partners in the government to withdraw this bill? It is bad and it does not meet its objectives, it does not fight illegal employment, but completely unnecessarily restricts companies that act honestly. Would you be willing to convince your coalition partners that this bill must be recalled from the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U106	Thank you, good questioner! Well, there's already a slight discussion here today about whether the members of a party have to think the way the party chairman thinks. I am pleased to be a member of the Centre Party, the chairman of which says that people in the party can think differently than they do. I understand it would be a little harder for me in the Social Democratic Party. It is there that, as the chairman asked the first question, everyone must ask the same question. It would be difficult for me. Convince coalition partner... Yeah, well, let's just say that Kaimar Bear was a representative of the same party, and yet we found a common language. I think every party has the right to the party's views. And as I said in reply to the first question, I fully understand certain points of view. Once again: if we had strong trade unions in all sectors of Estonia, who would stand up for workers in their sector, we would have a somewhat different situation. Unfortunately, this is not the case in Estonia. And, unfortunately, this means that in some sectors migrant workers may begin to influence the remuneration paid to local workers. And I don't think that's right. In this respect, I fully understand the views of the EKRE. I think that we fully agree with the EKRE as well that we have sectors where it makes sense for migrant workers to come, which will further develop these sectors. For example, IT. We do not have different views here. We certainly have sectors on which we do not agree. Well, politics is an art of compromise. We can't expect one party to make it clear to another party that your thoughts are all wrong, you have to give up. We need to find a golden middleway. And undoubtedly the discussion of this bill in Riigikogu committees is also a process for finding this reasonable medium.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U107	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U108	Thank you. Dear Minister, I ask you a little bit more about economic development and the issues of your area of government. Construction companies have pointed out that private sector construction volumes will decrease in the event of a crisis and that the state could replace the state budget. But if we look at the government's budgetary plans, next year the state budget investments will be more or less at this year's level. There can be some growth thanks to the support from the euro. But if we look at road construction, for example, which we have talked to you about here before, then now and next year basically, existing large objects will be finished. The number of new projects on the roads is strikingly low. You've said there are no projects. You can't send out rollers unless you're ready. But I ask: why, in the last four years, so modestly have money been allocated to new road projects, just 5 million per year for new four-line roads? Let's put aside how many ten million every year Rail Baltic goes to design! It's like an inconsistency here. I wonder whether this is the logic of the fact that if the construction of Rail Baltic and the capacity of the construction companies are subject to strong progress in the coming years, then in the coming years the road construction will be braked? Is it logical that we move forward vigorously with the construction of Rail Baltic, the resource is limited, and then we will continue to build new roads at a slower pace in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U109	Thank you, good questioner! On the contrary! This year and next year, the budget for the year of completion is still in progress, but at least the proposal is such that EUR 5 million would be again allocated to the design of four-line roads. It's the second year. Previously this money has not been there, and has not been for a very long time. Practically all the time, when we have been talking about these four-line roads, it has been the flag letter of almost all parties, that we are building a four-line road in Tallinn-Pärnu-Tallinn-Tartu-Tallinn-Narva-Tallinn-Tallinn-Tallinn-Tallinn-Tallinn-Tallinn-Tallinn-Tallinn-Tallinn-Tallinn-Tallinn-Tallinn-Tallinn-Tallinn. The second year now it exists and it shows that, in fact, we are very clearly thinking that the roads must finally be built. But you said the right thing. The real thing is that a roller can't go off unless there's a project. No way! Let's get these projects ready. Of course we have to consider one more thing. You might ask why only 5 million, why don't we put more in design. But this is really where the design capability comes in, as you indicated. In fact, we have 10 million for other designs, in addition to these four lines, in the state budget the road plan, if I remember correctly. According to my memory, there are 15 million euros for design work on the highways. That's a pretty big volume. In addition, during the COVID period, we have allocated additional resources to local governments, where there are roads that need to be designed. It is true that there are also ways for which money has been allocated, where the project is not so important. For example, the covering of gravel roads with a hard surface is unlikely to require such a thorough project. But there is also a need for an additional design resource. I can assure you that in my previous job I was exposed to the fact that, in the case of large projects, there are not very many design organisations that can do this work or companies that can do it in Estonia. So the volume of this market must also be taken into account. But I want to assure you that the government is certainly not based on the fact that we are only preparing Rail Baltic. On the contrary, we also want to prepare these four-line roads. We have planning money for this, and we also have a pilot project launched for this to involve the private sector more in the construction of these roads, so that this process can be speeded up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U110	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U111	And we come to the next question posed by Ivari Padar and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U112	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! First of all, a small remark on "Distance days and situations, which were about 12 years ago, 2008." I'm just saying that these situations are incomparable. I personally know the person who was the Minister of Finance in 2008, and I also know from today's Prime Minister, who I believe was the Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu at the time and heard what topics we had up here at the time, i.e. three negative budgets. But that's what it is. But when it comes to the tourism sector, about which there was an inquiry to the Prime Minister two weeks ago, there were two issues that I understood very clearly that it would take some time, but a decision will come. One of these was definitely the issue of wage support, where tourism companies have been in very one position, that it is reasonable to keep at least 50% of the staff until spring. It's worth about 45 million. That's one. The second topic was whether the KredEx terms would become more favourable for the company. Similar support measures in the Baltic States are different, and this is unfortunate for Estonian entrepreneurs. What are the progress made? And when will the decisions of the government be made, will these issues be taken forward? Will there be decisions or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U113	Thank you very much. I remember well: in 2008, the Minister of Finance was a man from Navi village. Good Ivari, you were the Minister of Finance and you did this job with a great deal of commitment. I fully agree with this crisis, which was 12 years ago, compared to today's situation, is quite difficult. I do not think we have to offer which one has been more difficult or difficult. Today we are in a number of crises at the same time: the economic crisis, the health crisis and certainly this unpredictable crisis. Where do you get those good predictions when some say one thing, the other? But we trust the Treasury projections. I remember, good Ivar, very well this question. It was a powerful moment here in the Riigikogu when I answered this question, and it was an important question. Tourism sector. In my opinion, less went to hope that I would not be wrong as 24 hours when the government decided to add 5 million to the tourism sector. Five million extra! It's an office decision, an office meeting decision. It is now the duty of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Information Technology to bring this support to the government. We consider it important that it goes through EAS. These sectors, which have been hit very hard by restaurants, hotels, tourism in general, certainly also by domestic tourism or, as some say, rural tourism, certainly need to be given support. Will 5 million alleviate the situation? It does, but of course it doesn't solve the problem. This sector is certainly no longer the same as it was before the crisis in terms of employment, given its activity. I'm afraid that's true. Now, the wage subsidy measure. With regard to the wage support measure, the position is the same at the moment: we do not know how long this crisis will last, and I do not think it is right to now bring all the reserves to zero. We know that the wage subsidy measure is a very expensive measure. It is indeed an effective measure, but it can be implemented for a very, very short period of time. That's what we applied in the spring. KredEx terms I hope we can talk about this in the next question, but I'm asking you maybe to clarify what you mean a little bit. But yes, the debate on KredEx can go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U114	Ivari Padar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U115	With regard to the KredEx measures, the question in this sense is that there are tourism companies in Estonia that have parallel structures in Latvia and Lithuania. And obviously, even the interest terms by which KredEx-like measures are received in Lithuania are more favourable than in Estonia. Obviously, it's a place to review. As regards the implementation of wage measures, obviously yes, it is an effective measure and an expensive measure. However, it is clear that if we think at length about the implementation of this measure in mid-November, this means that this area will be deprived of a valuable workforce that is definitely wanted to be maintained in this sector. These choices need urgent decisions. What is your personal position and who opposes the government coalition to make these quick decisions? For example, I read one in the Estonian Express in September, where the head of the Fatherland, Helir-Valdor Seeder, said very clearly that the tourism sector would not come to life. Are there any parties in today's government coalition that are in a very radical position and are working against finding sensible solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U116	Thank you. Well, first of all, I do not see any party who opposes the urgent decision-making process in the crisis. The coalition showed its strength during the first wave of the entire corona virus. Fast, clear and concrete decisions were taken. And that's shown now. It is true that all of this, say, has changed the pattern of behaviour, but it has changed not only in Estonia but throughout Europe. Such powerful closures are still made in extreme cases, I mean extremes in terms of indicators. Yes, the truth is, I think that the approach to keeping life open is rather the one that has been chosen. That's what I said last time I answered. Today's government's priority is planned treatment and that education can be kept open. It's important. Now, the tourism sector. You say you have to keep the experience, you have to keep the initiative. I think it's important too. For example, if IATA is not mistaken, the certificates that are needed in the tourism sector have been inside the 5.8 million that we have allocated here last month. Now there's a new $5 million. The tourism sector is basically so wide, isn't it? It is such a broad sector that we cannot maintain the entire tourism sector as it was before the crisis. It's understandable. It's understandable! But I agree with what you said. It seems to me that the essence of your point is that we cannot completely eliminate a certain part of this sector. When the crisis comes to an end, when recovery begins, we must actually be quick and help stimulate the economy, and we must also contribute to the recovery of this sector. At the moment, those operating in the tourism sector are very distressed by providing services outside Estonia. We know that this service is basically not available. People travel very little, travel is basically impossible or very, very limited. It just doesn't make any sense. And that is why we have the measures that we have really proposed. Now that we talk a little bit more about KredEx, I think that KredEx must also go a little more actively to the Estonian internal market, offer its service, offer its help specifically for economic recovery, sustaining the economy. We know that the market failure, let us be honest, is problematic if we go a little further from Tartu and Tallinn. I think the new management of KredEx needs to look at it. I do call on KredEx to offer more proactive services in Estonia in a wider and broader way. In any case, it should be implemented today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U117	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! On 19 October, I asked Minister Raul Siem about the tourism support measures and he replied that the government had not yet been able to deal with the tourism support measures. We were talking about the 5.8 million that was left over from EAS. In the meantime, as you said, an additional 5 million have been allocated through the Cabinet Decision, and also through EAS. Is it known when, then, Minister Raul Siem and EAS will be able to deal with the matter and develop these measures? But there's another question. As you know, unemployment is increasing, and today there are already over 51000 unemployed. The Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has proposed to the government that the residual amount of the unemployment fund be allocated to the tourism sector in order to maintain the necessary number of jobs and reduce the number of redundancies. You said here earlier that the entire tourism sector cannot be maintained by the government. Everyone understands this: the tourism sector currently employs 30,000 people. However, in order for this sector to survive the crisis and to get back to work quickly, at least 15 000 jobs need to be maintained. If, now, half of 15 000 people join the unemployed army, the unemployment fund's labour market measure should keep these other 15 000 on the payroll, so that if the virus subsides, the tourism industry could start again Why is this unemployment fund measure not being opened? The unemployment fund should have a residual of 30 million, 20 million of which could be directed towards tourism. Annual reports have been submitted, it is known who operates tourism according to EMTAK.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U119	Thank you very much. First of all, if you ask when Minister Siem must come with proposals for this 5 million, the decision was taken on 10 November and then there were two weeks. So November 10 plus two weeks, let's say we find out around November 24. I hope that he will come about then to the next week's cabinet meeting with proposals on how to make this distribution, especially in the hotel industry, plus restaurants, as well as tourism on a wider scale, including domestic tourism. I think I will tell you once again: we cannot say that all tourism is standing at the moment. This tourism, which offers services beyond Estonia, I agree, unfortunately it stands. And it does not depend solely on Estonia. We have tried to keep air connections open with many European countries, as far as possible. It has been positive in my opinion. In terms of domestic tourism, we have said several times, made calls at the beginning of the summer: a good person, a good person of Estonia, rest this summer in Estonia! Now there was an appeal: rest this school break in Estonia! This has certainly contributed to domestic tourism. I have a lot of information about this. Yes, it is true that we must now go outside Tallinn, unfortunately. I am therefore saying, unfortunately, that the tourism sector in Tallinn is in an extremely difficult situation. Hotels, restaurants, cafes, other dining places, old town is in a very difficult situation. At the same time, we can actually see that there is still quite a lot of notice outside Tallinn that people use the opportunity to rest in spas on the weekend, to rest in Estonian countryside. And they're doing it quite well, as much naturally as it's possible, as much as the corona virus allows, on the one hand, and on the other hand, how much the wallet suffers. But it's done, it's done today, and I really do say thank you for people doing it. Having met both the Association of Hotels and Restaurants and the Association of Tourism Companies, I have seen that both sectors actually have faith in recovery. And that belief in recovery is strong. I think it's important. Now that I am talking about the unemployment fund, I also replied last time that we must consider that this measure is expensive. That's where I agree with Ivar Padari. He knows what he's saying. The former Minister of Finance knows what he's saying. He says it was an effective measure, but he also burned quickly because it was used quickly. And we can't completely zero out all the resources. We don't know how long this pandemic will last, when the vaccine will come. We still have to keep a certain reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U120	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U121	Question number eight. This will be presented by Andres Sutt and will be answered by the Minister of Population Riina Solman. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U122	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Today we will discuss the budget for 2021 at second reading in this Riigikogu Chamber. You presented your budget in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 13 October. Among other things, the programme was "Kestlik Eesti ja väljalik rahvus" and, in turn, it was about the organisation of a family value campaign. You did not mention the details in the Committee on Finance, did not say what the cost of this budget line was. In the Committee on Social Affairs, this price turned out to be half a million euros. Today you have confirmed here that this campaign has nothing to do with the proposed referendum. Last year, as you said here, there was zero euro in this budget line. And my question to you is, why wasn't there a program last year? Please also open the content of this information campaign. What exactly are you planning to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U123	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner, thank you once again for your question. With regard to the programme "Kestlik Eesti ja väljalik rahvas" it was briefly explained before. Indeed, this year's budget did not exist yet. As we are well aware, the previous Minister for Population was Urve Palo, whose position was so-called liquidation as a result of the economic crisis. Before that, Paul-Eerik Rummo, the Reform Party Minister of Population, was also doing a very good job. The first half of the year was spent by the Minister of Population on the so-called removal of areas that had been distributed between the four ministries after Urve Palo, and, of course, on the recruitment of an official body that was not in the population area. On April 29, when the government was appointed, I was alone. I had to move to the Ministry of the Interior to build a population area. I had two advisors with me, and later we were able to start recruiting staff. We received a certain number of people from the Ministry of Social Affairs to establish a family policy department in the form of their family policy workers. We further developed this area. So the family policy programme is planned for the financial year 2021 within the framework of the "Kestlik Eesti ja väljalik rahvas" programme. When we go to the idea presented in the Committee on Monetary Affairs or to the whole area, there were a large number of other measures supporting birth rate policies and family policies, not just a campaign to raise demographic awareness. It is certainly not worth looking for links between this campaign and the future referendum. There aren't any. We are already talking every day about the demographic crisis in Estonia, the population crisis. As I said, a generation with fewer numbers has reached birth age. People are not aware of their rights. Several studies have been carried out, and, for example, youth and family studies show that the actual awareness of the current situation, our duration, which we have promised in our constitution to ensure just to ensure the sustainability of our people, language and culture, is low. People don't think about it. But our population is steadily shrinking. That's a fact. In any case, addressing this issue and this area is correct. What exactly are the elements of the campaign? Since I asked for significantly more resources in this request for a budget for the birth rate measure to support family policy, to support various measures, but I received significantly fewer resources, we have not yet reached the precise planning of this campaign. This requires substantive negotiations and discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U124	Andres Sutt, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U125	Thank you. I understand that time ran out before you could open up the contents of this campaign. And at the end, like you said, you don't really know exactly what the content of this campaign is yet. If I misunderstood, please specify what the content of this campaign is. And please also specify when this campaign is scheduled to begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U126	Thank you very much for the clarification. Campaign time is not in place. It is not in place because our requests for money were granted on a smaller scale. This also concerns all other family policies. They all go hand in hand, and they are not linked to a referendum. For example, we plan to build a family mediation system. We plan to extend the family counselling service across Estonia. We support the establishment of family nests or family support centres throughout Estonia so that it is not only available in Tallinn and Tartu, but also in other areas of Estonia. And if this campaign to raise demographic awareness gets there, I'm sure I'll go public with the details. But this is all in cooperation with the members of the Social Affairs Committee, the members of the Committee on Population Crisis Problem and certainly with the Ministry of Social Affairs, with whom we have joint plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U127	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U128	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It's very sympathetic for me when you talk about the population crisis, about the problem. And my question is certainly not meant to contrast child-rich families with families that have one child or two children. But we hear very little talking about these families. Once again, children's wealth is real wealth, it's no opposite. But since the subject of the question was 'Government plans', I ask: do you have any examples of what you have planned and led to the government to support single parents who are raising one or two children or families with one or two children? And in the Committee on Social Affairs, you spoke of the idea of raising the support of a family rich in children, which we will not find in this budget. But yes, it is not easy to put together a budget. Certain expectations of the money that ministers are hoping to receive there may not be fulfilled. But what are the messages that could be sent to these families today? If you have any ideas, plans, and actions in this regard, it would be very nice if you enlightened them today. Believe me, a lot of parents feel bad about not finding themselves in government messages. You can't have a third child if you don't have the first child. Not everyone has the happiness of living together as a couple, so do single parents who raise several children. Maybe you have a message for these families. Don't talk about services. Family homes and all of this are excellent and many people need these services, including parents with children and one or two children. If there are any concerns, you can turn there and ask for advice and help, but bring something concrete that concerns the expectations of their families. Is there a plan to increase subsidies or what are the activities planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U129	Thank you for your excellent question. We have a very similar problem with you, Helmen Hunter. It is true that we have proposed in our family package measures measures addressed to families with children. The increase in support for families with one or two children was planned for next year. So we certainly haven't left families with one or two children out of attention. Our family policy is universal and affects all families. If we're talking about single parenthood, then who else shouldn't I know about the difficulties of single parents? As a single parent, I have raised my older son, and I have a complete view and a clear picture of what it really means, physically, economically, and spiritually. But I have now calculated this budget allocation, for example, as regards maintenance aid. A child's help is understood by parents who do not fulfil their parenting duties and who do not pay their child a living, by the state itself. If the maintenance aid is increased by EUR 10, or EUR 110, instead of EUR 100, it will cost around EUR 800000 per year in total costs, plus the cost of programming the development of the SKAIS. This means that, unfortunately, this may not fit us in the next financial year. I assure you that the Minister of Population is certainly not only thinking about families that are rich in children, but let us admit to ourselves, both inside and outside this room, that we are also being watched by means of a television screen or the Internet, that a child-rich family with four or more children needs significantly more resources. He needs significantly more economic resources; he certainly needs more help in moving around, in organising logistics. The housing required is no longer the same as for a smaller family. And all of this must be guaranteed by the parents of a family rich in children through their own resources. For us, they will be future taxpayers and the promoters of Estonia's future, i.e. they will guarantee us sustainable Estonia. But the truth is, without the first and second children, there are no third and fourth children. And also the increase in support for their families, we will certainly be planning in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U130	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U131	Question number nine. Performs by Jevgeni Ossinovski and responds to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U132	Thank you. Prime Minister! I will continue with one of your earlier responses which, I think, deserves to be extended. Related to the referendum, the issue has arisen of the participation of the various socially active players in this campaign. Some NGOs have already expressed their position and are planning to participate in it. And without doubt, if organisations want to participate in the social debate, it is positive. However, the Chancellor of Justice pointed out already in 2017 that the transparency of funding for NGOs with such political initiatives should be considered. And now, in the course of this referendum campaign, this issue has been raised again and with new sharpness. If you now submit the draft referendum to Parliament's proceedings, I think it would also be right to discuss how those organisations that are going to carry out electoral agitation should disclose their donors. In reply to Mr Kallas's question, you said that you would agree that this would be necessary. As a result, the question is whether it is simply such moral support for the possible initiatives of Members in this context, or whether it is essentially discussed at the level of the Government of the Republic in what way this procedure is to be established, this regulation. Is there any reason to expect the government to take an initiative along with this draft referendum? If not, do you have the feeling that the coalition could support the adoption of such a regulatory change, or is it rather your personal support?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U133	Honourable Member of the Riigikogu, Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski! Thank you very much for this question. Yes, you've been following this briefing very closely. I really told Mrs Kaja Kallas that I think that if this referendum were to be made, the donors should be clear. The sources, the finances from which the money comes should be clear, and this should also be checked. If you're asking me if it's been discussed between members of the government, it is. Yes, it is! I have discussed this with several ministers and said that I really think it is important to find a way to ensure that funding is transparent in this referendum. If there is a question of how to do this, here I would base myself on the fact that legislative power and executive power must not be confused. They can't be confused! And I think that if the draft decision of the Riigikogu is to be dealt with, it is quite appropriate to think very seriously about how and whether to supplement it or any other regulation. In fact, the core of the issue of referendums is what is the control mechanism or control body and how this control is carried out. It's also what reporting is like. I'm interrupting you now, Mr. Kaljulaid, you're having a conversation there, but you won't hear what I'm saying. What am I doing in front of you? I mean, how this control is gonna be, I really think it's important, extremely important. In any case, I support this funding being transparent and verifiable. Whether to lay down this by this draft decision, whether to do so by any other regulation, by some law ♪ it is in the hands of the Riigikogu. There was also the question of whether this was my position. Yes, point one: that is my position. Has the government shaped a common position or a common position, as you like to say? No, we haven't shaped this joint position, but I haven't heard anyone object. On the contrary, the conversations I have had with members of the government have been rather supportive. Rather, they have been supportive! So I think it would be worth thinking very seriously about this situation, in the current situation, that if this referendum decision comes, if the second reading has been made and the Riigikogu has decided it, then we need to think in advance about how to make everything transparent and this control mechanism is also in place. It is clear that, as you said, there are a lot of NGOs that are campaigning in different directions. That must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U134	Thank you. I would ask you very quickly a very short question and a very short answer. Then we'll be able to do a hall call for two more minutes. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U135	Thank you. I'll ask you briefly. I thank you for this positive attitude. I think that Parliament will get a boost from this in order to address this issue and reach a decision. But my second question concerns this issue, which the Minister for Population has just highlighted here, and is also a continuation of the previous question. Indeed, different campaigns are still carried out in the country. However, as you said in your reply, there should not be such a round-the-angle approach, it must not seem that this is somehow a matter of influencing the outcome of this referendum, of agitation. My attention was drawn to a document such as the new report by the Venice Commission on referendums, which is from 8 October. It also says that public authorities should not campaign and, if campaigns are even carried out on certain topics, they should be neutral. How do you imagine that now that this family value campaign that your government is going to run, how should it be structured so that it is neutral and does not seem to influence the outcome for the parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U136	Thank you. Well, I understand that the Chairman of the Riigikogu asked for a very urgent question, and it really was extremely urgent, and would also be a very quick answer. Well, I say once again that there must be no intervention by the government in this referendum, or, I don't know, the ministries. It can't be! But I do not agree that we must not have any campaign at the beginning of the year in the area of internal security, for example. We're talking about the Ministry of Social Affairs doing a lot of interesting campaigns. The campaign must be effective and, in general, I think it must be positive, not derogatory. But I am fully prepared to meet you in private and to discuss this further. At the moment, I really do not want to question the beginning of the sitting of the Riigikogu in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U137	Thank you, questioners! Thank you, respondents! Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U138	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday of the 8th working week.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U139	Since President Kersti Kaljulaid, including by decision No 651 of 18 November, has named Alar Laneman Minister of the Interior, we will listen to his oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U140	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U141	Let's move on to today's hearing. It's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of eight Social Democrats, I will report an inquiry to Minister for the Environment Rain Epler, who has embarked on his ministerial career. Yesterday, on 17 November in "Heresee," he questioned the human nature of climate change, saying, among other things: "Is the effects of climate change as great as the effects of man's creation are thought to be, who knows, are not quite convinced. " Given that global climate change has an existential meaning for our natural environment and human well-being, the attitude "who knows is not quite convinced" is, frankly, ridiculous from anyone's mouth. However, as the Minister of the Environment of the Republic of Estonia thus demonstrates the incompetence of the basic facts of his administration, it is beautifully startling. As a result, we would like to motivate a respected member of the government to inform us more quickly about the facts. This also happened to his predecessor, Mr Koka, that he tried several times to tell me and to send me various papers that climate change was not man-made, but in the end he had to admit that it was still that he was convinced that it was man-made and dangerous. As a result, there is hope that the new Minister for the Environment will be able to lead the same path. In the current global climate crisis, I think it is essential. We therefore have four questions for the Minister. We would like to receive reading recommendations from the materials to which it refers and according to which there is no human-made impact on climate change in this way. Let us also ask what he thinks of the Paris climate agreement and several other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U143	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U144	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Commission will initiate a draft law amending the Pensions Act and related amendments to other laws. The purpose of the draft is to make the necessary improvements, in particular in the regulation on the pension investment account and to improve reference errors and inaccuracies. The draft is by its nature of technical nature, the dates of implementation of the second pillar reform and other fundamental changes to the second pillar reform that do not make this draft. The draft is intended to clarify the flow of money and data relating to this account, some improvements are made to the regulation where this has not been done by the law on funded pensions and related amendments to other laws. There will also be some simplifications in the pay-out processes of the second pillar when a person leaves the second pillar and withdraws the money, but more money should be received later in the second pillar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U145	Thank you. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a day of celebration and I am thinking, not of the anniversary of the Republic of Latvia, but of the celebration of democracy, because I will immediately hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the matter of the concept of marriage on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Central Party, the Group of the Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Party of the Isamaa. This is the first referendum in the last 17 years, and I very much hope that when this referendum takes place, the issue of same-sex marriage, which has long polarised society, will also be resolved. Thank you. [[A little applause.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U147	Thank you. No more members of the Riigikogu wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry, and the management board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the laws in force. Ladies and gentlemen, Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U148	93 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 8.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U149	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft Act 244 amending the Social Tax Act and the Law on Health and Safety at Work, which was initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I ask Riina Sikkut, a member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U150	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the draft tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party has reached its first reading, which is also about dealing with the virus. The last 14 days' morbidity rate for 100,000 people is 223.33. It's higher than ever. In the last 24 hours, the positive test results were 274. The Northern Regional Department has over 13,000 people under surveillance and 28 colleges can be distinguished. For example, there are 8 job stations, 4 school centres, 3 event centres, 1 day care centres, 2 nursing centres, 2 hospital centres and Tallinn Prison monsters. But really, these kindergartens, schools, prisons and nursing homes are jobs. How do we have so many job spots? We all know you have to stay home with the first symptoms. This way you can read on crisis.ee, so recommends the Health Board, such instructions are given by the government. You need to call a family doctor and get a referral to take a test. But who can stay home with that rough throat or a cold? Staying home from work means losing a person's income, while a week's illness leads to a minimum wage of nearly 100 euros from the maid. You cannot expect a person to stay at home with a slightly rough throat or runny nose if that means coping difficulties for him or her. But all right, you work it out once, you pull yourself together, maybe you can handle it. In November, it's a cold nose week at home, accepting a lower income. In December, his coronas are positive, and he stays on the sick list for two weeks because of his contact. He'll have a cold again in January. This is a realistic scenario for many of us and a real monthly income lower than a month. If we all follow government codes of conduct for our health and for the sake of others' health, then we should be on an equal footing. The rules are the same for everyone, but we're not actually on an equal footing. In the autumn of Coron, employees are affected differently by incomes and occupations. Spring showed us this. In an emergency, we started working so that committee meetings took place in Microsoft Teams. Many computer workers started working at the home office. Computer work was easy to move home. Meetings can be held virtually. But there's a lot of work you can't do at a distance. People who work in hospitals, nursing homes, police and the Rescue Board, shops, buses, pharmacies, etc. went to work in the spring. And no one can take home any part of the production line. Thus, with poor feeling and initial signs of illness, some of us can work at our home office at their own pace, wait and see if the disease comes. But those at work should stay home and take the sick list. It seems an easy choice, because health is important and then who still wants to work when they're sick. But it's not that simple, because people's incomes are different. Lower than average wages include, for example, trade, service, social welfare and catering, where teleworking is not possible. From this remote point of view, I have repeatedly emphasised: when making decisions on pay taxation and benefits, it must be borne in mind that, if we rank a million adults, the recipient of income, nearly 80% of them have a lower income than the average gross wage. A survey of the financial behaviour of Estonian people has revealed that income is mostly used for everyday expenses, which currently probably also means masks and decoys for cleaning hands. But people also have modest savings. So, with the current law, we want the person working in a shop, for example, who feels that the disease is coming, to stay home and lose three days' income, in order to limit the spread of the infection. If the disease becomes longer, it will lose 30% of its income in the future. Of course, staying home is reasonable in the interests of one's own health, in the interests of society's health. The sick may well know, and many of them do. But he may not be able to afford to lose his income. Fortunately, several employers have voluntarily started to compensate for the first days of illness so that the sick person really stays at home and the infection does not spread in the collective. But it is far from all employees. If we are to compensate for these first days of illness now, if we really consider it important to stay home sick in the context of an epidemic, a new sickness compensation scheme must be agreed. I consider it reasonable to compensate for sickness days in cooperation between the state and employers, starting from the first day, 80% of the salary and equal pay: 40% is paid by the sickness fund and 40% by the employer. This means that the motivation for the first eight days will not change, it is not strictly the person's responsibility, strictly the employer's responsibility and strictly the period of benefit paid by the health insurance fund. The first eight days are a uniform scheme, no moral hazard. At the same time, one of the main arguments has been that if these first days of illness are compensated, it will be used to ensure that the person retains his or her participation. 20% of the income of a low earner is a very high self-responsibility for a person. So if we make up for 80% of the sick days from day one, the person is already in charge. Such a solution will allow people to follow the government's recommendation, to remain at home with a poor feeling, which is easier and more logical than the current form of compensation. And although it seems to us that the loss of COVID-19 infection and the achievement of vaccine immunity are in tangible proximity, many people will probably have to stay home this winter and the next winter, either because of the positive test result or because of contact. And since the time for the vaccine to reach the masses is unknown, we could agree on a solution that will allow us to survive at least the next two winters, perhaps for a longer period than just a special situation, as was the case in spring. However, if the length of the sick leave is more than seven days, the employer's burden is lower than that of the current reimbursement scheme. After two winters, the number of short sick leaves taken should be looked back and analysed, whether the prevalence of respiratory diseases among adults has decreased, whether there has been a decrease in the number of sick work, and, if necessary, the need to change the compensation procedure for sick days. The Social Democrats submitted a draft proposing such a solution on 17 September, as the summer government discussions were not followed by a decision. Exceptionally, in an emergency in spring, the first three days of sickness were reimbursed. The emergency was over, the virus stopped spreading. And the summer government discussions reached the media with the following headlines. On August 28 there was news: "The government can discuss the pay of the sick list from the first day of illness." 2 September: "The government will discuss the change in compensation for sick days." On 15 September, "The Government will continue to argue about the early reimbursement of the sick list'. It begins with the words that the government has been discussing for several weeks the earlier introduction of the beginning of the reimbursement of sick leave, but so far without success. And on 28 October, we read that the state and employers took a step forward with the reimbursement of sick leave. Step forward, but this step did not lead to a decision yet. The Minister of Social Affairs said that compensation for the first days of illness would certainly help to stay at home and not go to work in case of illness and thereby prevent the virus. So it's been discussed for months. Today, the spread of infection is at a record level, but there is no decision yet. And today we also heard in Question Time that yes, yes, I would, but we're still discussing, looking for a solution. It is not possible to spend that long in a crisis situation. Yeah, it would take more of this mentality of testing and testing to see if the compensation for the first days of sickness is working, and if it works, it becomes such a sensible solution, then we can extend it. And since it concerns the use of tax money to provide social guarantees, it is a good practice that such things are agreed only in a tripartite way: trade unions, employers and the government. The Ministry of Social Affairs is the one who negotiates and takes their proposals to the government table. And that should be discussed in tripartite terms. Now, as read in the media, there has actually been an agreement on compensation since the second day of sickness. But there is no decision, despite the fact that this has been discussed repeatedly in the trialogue and such a consensus has been found that there is a way to prevent the spread of infection. Since the loss of three days and 30% of income means difficulties for many, we cannot expect them to stay home for the first symptoms. At the same time, we do not want to work for those who are infected during the Corona. Let us now look back at the debate on the reimbursement of sick days, because both in Question Time today and earlier in the Commission, the question has always arisen as to how it was before 2009 and in 2009. Yes, before 2009, 80% of the second day of sickness was reimbursed. It has been analysed several times. What does this analysis of the previous sick list show us? Short sick leaves were taken with upper respiratory tract diseases. Yes, it was seen as a place to cut the 2009 economic crisis. Because it was an economic crisis, it was not a crisis caused by the spread of the virus. Now, knowing that, in the case of compensation for the first days of sickness, short sick leaves will be taken by those who suffer from the cold and cough, that is exactly what we want. And when you look at age groups, with such complaints, the sick list was taken by older people, who are at risk of the current infection before 2009. That's exactly what we want! So looking back, too, it is as if we are getting this support or courage to decide that this step needs to be taken now. There is no doubt that there is a need for an objective to guide the crisis, and then appropriate measures must be chosen to achieve this objective. There's no one right or wrong answer. We can decide that we're going to stop the infection in some other way. I see, almost everyone here is masked faces. Yeah, we can decide for the masks. But it hasn't been done either. The wearing of masks is now very modest. This means that people also go to work without a mask, there are job spots, because they cannot stay home for symptoms. All these things are connected. It may be decided not to compensate for sick days, but then other measures are needed to mitigate the risk that people go to work to spread infection. That decision has not been taken. So now it is high time to make a more generous decision on the reimbursement of sick days so that conditions do not force the sick to work. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U151	Thank you, dear waitress. You really do have questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U152	Thank you for a very thorough and good presentation and arguments. My question concerns this decision. The Prime Minister here has said that if there is no trialogue, this decision will be delayed and delayed. But in today's situation, can't the government make an exception decision and use the state budget reserves?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U153	Thank you for your question. This draft, which was submitted more than two months ago, really provided for a more permanent solution that would allow two winters to survive, and I think it is also necessary. But now we are in a situation where a quick decision is needed to allocate money from government reserves to pay compensation from the first day of illness, for example, on 1 December, so that we can better control the spread of the virus and we do not need to lock Estonia down.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U154	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U155	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We all know what's coming today. We are thoroughly explaining and talking, but, as already in the Committee on Social Affairs, with 5 votes: 4 votes, this bill is being pushed into the trash. Would it not have been conceivable for the government to seek a compromise and possibly find this compromise from the second day on to leave the draft in the process, to make proposals within the deadline for amendments and then to discuss it further? Because it's definitely faster than starting a bill that takes its time to process.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U156	Thank you. That's a good question. I think so, too. It's the only reasonable solution. If the government wants to amend the law and find a solution for a longer period of time, amendments should be proposed on the draft that is already pending. Because even if the government submits a draft tomorrow, it will not be able to proceed with a more generous reimbursement of sick days from 1 January, and an exceptional decision is needed. However, it is actually necessary to propose amendments to this draft, where only the second and third readings are required, and it would be possible to adopt this decision before the beginning of the new year and to begin to compensate more generously for sick days.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U157	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U158	Thank you. My question is that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Social Affairs have been here for at least a few months when we have raised this issue, asked them and said that it is time-critical and must act, said that they are operating. And so we hear the story that they're operating, so far. What is your assessment of when it really should have been done so that we could have kept the disease from spreading to the workplace as much as possible? And the second question is, too. Yesterday, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Prime Minister, when he realized that they had failed to do their job, started attacking all previous governments and ministers in this area, saying that they could have done something ten years ago. Would you judge such behavior as trying to turn this sin on others?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U159	Thank you. Indeed, this is true for so many subjects, whether it concerns welfare, health insurance, reimbursement of sick days or other concerns. Even a four-way road could have been built 20 years ago. All things could have been done better in the past. Now we are talking about measures to prevent the spread of the virus and there are one, two, three, four things that the government can implement, forcefully implement to control the spread of the virus. One of them is the reimbursement of sick leave. The government actually knows this because they took these measures in the spring. In the spring, the fear was no doubt greater than now, and there were people who were afraid of the virus and were afraid to go to work. Some left their children at home and needed to stay home because of them. There were those who were sick and stayed home. And it was clear that there were a lot of sick leaves being taken. Fortunately, an IT solution was put into operation very quickly, allowing a person to publish a sick list. Similarly, in exceptional circumstances, the first three days of sickness were reimbursed from the government reserve, i.e. a total of EUR 6.7 million. Although the decision came in early May, the first three days of sick leave during the emergency period were reimbursed. This was reasonable in the spring of emergency. This should be learned, and I think that the experience of spring should be discussed in depth both between us and with the government and all those involved in resolving the crisis, so that we can make decisions much faster and smarter when we go up against the autumn now. Summer gave us breathing time, the spread of the virus subsided, there was time. There was talk of a second wave coming all over the place. It was time to consider which instruments to use when the second wave reached Estonia. And that the reimbursement of sick days, which was already implemented in the spring, along with the IT solution for opening sick leaves, to continue in some way, in some other form, should have been done as soon as the illness went up, at the beginning of the autumn season. I think I should have done that since September. 1 September was a beautiful symbolic day. Fortunately, the children were able to go to school, and they could have applied sickness benefit from that time. Now more than two and a half months have passed, and if the government wishes to come to the Riigikogu with a bill to change this law, nothing will happen before the new year. Maybe we'll talk in the spring this time about an agreement and it's possible to start reparating sick days. But how many places to work by then and where we're healthy, I don't know how to predict.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U160	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U161	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! It seems to be such a broader pattern. After all, during the summer, the rally was organized and other such topics were dealt with. Similarly, it is only now in Tallinn that we are preparing to give people personal protective equipment. When it starts, it's gonna take a lot of time. In fact, that could have been anticipated. But my question is this. It is often argued against this proposal that people will then start taking these sick days without justification and that if they simply feel that they do not want to go to work today, they will declare that they are sick. However, I believe that most people in Estonia are very reasonable and rational and want to do their job conscientiously. Is there any indication of how serious such a problem could be, or if it is even a real argument against this proposal? Is there any evidence-based material on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U162	Thank you. Indeed, for each benefit scheme there are certainly those who do not use it properly or in the way it is meant to be. Similarly, it can be said about the spring wage subsidy that there were entrepreneurs who also asked for wage subsidy in a situation where they did not actually meet the conditions. Does this mean that the wage subsidy as such was bad and should not have been implemented? I think that a large part of Estonian entrepreneurs and employees would disagree. Despite the fact that there were individual infringements, the measure was, as such, necessary, effective and it would be reasonable to implement it in the future. It's exactly the same with sick days. If we look at the time before 2009, the average length of the sick list was 12 days. I think it was 13 days in 2019. Now that we are talking about being isolated or quarantined for 10 to 14 days, there is also the assumption that these leaves will somehow be significantly shorter, is not. When a few hangover days fall into these pages, or for some other reason, a low-motivation person stays at home... well, yeah. But if it turns into a pattern, no doubt the employer will have to deal with it. When it comes to the regular use of funds for non-purpose purposes, perhaps it should also be dealt with at the level of the sickness fund or at national level when we see this pattern. That's one thing you can judge when you look back. Once the two seasons have been gone, we will see if there were many of those one- or two-day pages that were not followed by a diagnosis, treatment or anything like that and were taken repeatedly for some workers. Are there so many of them that there is a need for some sort of review of the mechanism? I don't think there's that many. However, the fear of abuse of compensation schemes should not hold us back to such an extent in times of emergency or epidemic conditions that we all others allow the infection to be transmitted to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U163	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U164	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You very well pointed out that 2009 was an economic crisis. Today we are experiencing a health crisis, and this health crisis is quickly turning into an economic crisis. Indeed, it is important to recognise those entrepreneurs who have started to pay compensation to their employees from day one and have thus achieved that the sick person does not come to work. You've identified a list of infectious lesions, and there were eight workplace sites, if I remember correctly. We would not be in this situation today if we had something on the table from the government that we could discuss, because people are not really interested in who started it, but people are interested in not being trapped in poverty when they stay home. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U165	Thank you. That's right. When we say that there is a high cost of concern or something like that, it is actually possible to change this scheme. As concerns are primarily about low wage earners working in certain sectors, it is possible to agree on a tripartite basis if the government so wishes. You can put a ceiling up to the average salary that the first three working days' compensation is up to the average salary. Since those on low wages are fully compensated, others have to bear somewhat more responsibility. According to what is the government's goal, what kind of change of behaviour they want in society, all these instruments exist. Only a decision is needed that, yes, we want infected people to stay at home, to stay home with the symptoms, and for that we provide this or another type of compensation. Whether there is a concern about certain sectors, for people with certain levels of pay, it can be reflected in this agreed scheme.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U166	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U167	Thank you. Good waitress! We know very well that the government alone is not doing anything here. These are tripartite agreements and they take time. At the moment, the government has reached tripartite agreements, that is well known to all of us. I'm asking why we're creating such a double standard. I remember how not long ago, in the last crisis, the Social Democrats in the government, on the contrary, approved a reduction in the payout of sick days. You were the one who agreed. Now that all the arrangements have been made, why don't you approve? We should see together that it is useful. And as far as the health or economic crisis is concerned, any health crisis is always an economic crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U168	Thank you. Also a very good question. Indeed, it is a pity that, under the previous economic crisis, the place of death was just sick days. That's too bad! At the time, however, the country had set a target for the introduction of the euro, so that cuts were made in different areas, all the areas contributed to human resources expenditure. It's a pity that in the field of health this happened at the expense of sick days. I also think that it could have been reversed earlier, just like the adult dental care allowance that disappeared, but fortunately, it has now been restored to a more generous amount than it was before 2009. After all, in the economic crisis, the issue of businesses' livelihood was the tax burden, the avoidance of an increase in the tax burden. This was set as an objective and selected instruments that would enable this objective to be met. Now that we are talking about a health crisis, it does not matter what was decided 11 years ago, who did it, for what reasons. It is now necessary for the government to decide on measures to control the spread of infection. And what is this historical legacy, which has been stood for, is no longer important in resolving the crisis. Now we need to look at the available data, listen to the experts' recommendations and make decisions that will enable this objective to be achieved so that the spread of the virus can be controlled.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U169	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would now like to ask Mr Möldri, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Health and Safety at Work Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group at its meeting on 9 November. There was the initiator of the draft, a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, and there were representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs who presented the position of the Government of the Republic. As the previous speaker has already presented the draft, what the content of this draft law is, I will not go over, but indeed, there was a debate on it in the Commission as well. We also heard the opinion and position of the Government of the Republic. The representative of the Government of the Republic noted that the Government of the Republic supports the aim of the draft to compensate workers for sick days earlier. However, the draft cannot be supported in its proposed form, inter alia because the draft aims to substantially change the procedures for the reimbursement of sickness benefits by excluding the necessary amendments to the Health Insurance Act. He explained that the Health Insurance Fund had no data on the average salary of the employee. This requires further development and requires employers to transmit the relevant data to the health insurance fund. The volume of these developments is so large that rapid implementation of the draft is not possible. In addition, the draft amendments must be introduced into the Health Insurance Act, which provides for the payment of sickness benefit by the Health Insurance Fund. The estimate of the cost of the draft is too low, as the calculation is based on the number of sick sheets reimbursed by the sickness fund. It has not been taken into account that the number of sick leaves may increase. That was the position of the Government of the Republic. There were other discussions in the Commission. Above all, in our thoughts and discussions, we went this way to discuss topics that we have been able to read in the media. Indeed, in the Government of the Republic, it is different in terms of detail with similar content, but under discussion of a bill with similar content. The Commission also asked whether the Ministry of Social Affairs had the same content in the preparation of the draft and how far it is. A representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that the draft had been prepared and negotiations between employers and trade unions had taken place. They have approved this, but discussions at government level are still ongoing to move forward with this draft. And I understand that the main point of discussion is, above all, the sources of cover. The question then was whether, in the same way as the current situation, the cost to the state of creating workplaces, ill health and the number of people in hospitals would be increased. Is the Ministry of Social Affairs still monitoring such an overall picture when these tests are being carried out? A representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said that such analyses and calculations are available to the Health Insurance Fund, they are carried out and monitored regularly. There was a question about the forecast of costs, on which there was also a long debate. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said that, in the case of this draft, it is not the draft of the Social Democratic Party, but the draft, which is indeed estimated at 15 million at the discussion of the Government of the Republic. And it's going to be cost savings of 1 million for employers. This is because today, if employers make up five working days, it will be four working days in the future. But once again, the debate we had in the Commission focused more on the draft law of the Government of the Republic. Then there was the question of what the previous speaker mentioned and marked whether the position of trade unions and employers had been asked about this draft, as good practice suggests. A representative of the Social Democratic Party Group said that this has been asked. Trade unions were positive, but employers said and thought that this topic could still be analysed and should be analysed, and did not rush to support it immediately with the first push. It was also asked whether the impact assessment prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund had been taken into account in the close contacts with the sick pages. Now we are talking again about the second draft drawn up by the Government of the Republic. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied that the explanatory memorandum to the draft drawn up by the Ministry of Social Affairs also included the number of sick sheets calculated by the Health Insurance Fund and should also include the number of sick pages given to close contacts. The employer's opinion on the draft of the Ministry of Social Affairs was asked. As I said now, we are talking again about the draft of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but this debate was so jumpy that there really is such a benevolent tripartite agreement with both employers and trade unions. And I guess we'll see if and how soon the Government of the Republic will come to the Riigikogu with this bill. The Commission welcomed the re-emergence of the Social Democratic Party with such a draft. The objective of making more compensation for sick days in times of crisis is absolutely right. It was also pointed out that during the previous major crisis, it was the members of the government of the Social Democratic Party who were ready to cut these sick days' benefits first. Once again, however, it was the opinion in the Commission that it was good that we were dealing with this issue and that this debate was in this big Chamber. Finally, the initiator of the draft act stated that, as mentioned above, there is a crisis situation and that a joint approach should be taken to ensure that workers are able to stay at home sick for the benefit of everyone's health and that there are no job openings. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by yesterday's date, but since part of yesterday's agenda went to today because of very long discussions, we are discussing it today. The Commission decided to propose the rejection of the draft proposal (by 5 and 4 members against) and to appoint Tõnis Mölder as rapporteur for the Commission (this decision was consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U171	Thank you. You have a lot of questions. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U172	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Let me make it clear that our cost estimate is based on a ten-fold increase in the number of short sick leaves. I've seen the calculation of the Health Insurance Fund, which requires a 30-fold increase. If the virus spreads, it could be 50 times the rate of growth. I agree. There's a lot of uncertainty about the number. That is why we have used the number 30 million approved by the Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the amendment to our budget is also based on the calculation they have made. And the other thing is what I'd like to ask you about. Yesterday, in this very hall, we approved an amendment to the law, which also included IT solutions between the Social Insurance Board and the Pension Centre. I asked whether these IT solutions could really move forward so quickly and could work before money could be withdrawn from the second pillar. You said yes, yes. But my question is, how can these IT developments for government changes be completed quickly, but these IT solutions that are needed for our proposal to compensate for sick days earlier, for some reason not being completed today, tomorrow or a year from now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U173	Thank you. I will first come to the calculations of this bill. I think it is unpredictable, and I agree with you on that. I understand that this main difference still comes from the employer's costs. If, according to your draft, the employer has a cost of EUR 3 million, then it is claimed that according to the draft of the Government of the Republic, once again, I have not seen it, instead, for employers, a cost savings of 1 million. There's maybe this difference, and I think it's the main debate place. The cost of the state is very difficult to predict. The number of sick days, the number of lesions, it's a completely separate topic. As far as IT development is concerned, I would stress that this was the position of the representative of the Government of the Republic. He said that your bill is a very complex matter of thinking. In his view, such IT developments would take more time than average and could not be implemented as an immediate measure, i.e. as a crisis measure. As to whether and what IT solutions are needed in the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic, I owe the answer today. But I believe that when the Government of the Republic comes up with this draft, it will also ensure that, if Parliament has the will and will, it will be possible to move forward quickly and implement it quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U174	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U175	Thank you, dear colleague. Such a remark, first of all, to compare today's draft with the decisions taken during the previous economic crisis in 2008-2009, these comparisons are inadequate. This was confirmed today by the Prime Minister. But I have a question. Mr Tuus-Laul said today in this Chamber that we all know that an agreement has been reached. The Prime Minister didn't know that. Can you explain to what extent and how the agreement has been reached? When's this gonna work? When will it be presented to the government? What is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U176	Thank you. First of all, I'll come to the point of this inadequacy. I do not want to assess the opinion of any member of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu as either inadequate or adequate. I think that every Member of the Commission has the right to give his or her opinion, and I must read these opinions from this board as well. But now, coming to this agreement, my message was that there is an agreement between employers and trade unions and the ministry. Whether the government will also approve this tripartite agreement and come up with a draft law is very difficult to predict today. I think the prime minister could best share that information. When you asked him about it in Question Time, I listened to this debate. We can see where these discussions are going. I understand that, as the representative of the government told us in the Committee on Social Affairs, the main debate is still on where to find suitable sources of cover for such a change and how quickly it can be implemented. And I understand that the main point of discussion is whether it is a permanent measure or a temporary measure. Here, for example, a temporary measure has been proposed for two years. So pretty much that's where the focus is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U177	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U178	Thank you. I find it unpleasant to hear you say that the sources of cover are being discussed. When I told Jüri Ratas here a few days ago it was last Wednesday, it was unsustainable and moral hazard, when the first day had to be automatically compensated, he liked it. You say it's just a source of cover. The exact same story was yesterday when you spoke about how the pension rise is simply a matter of the party and the will of the government and something extraordinary. Those who don't understand it have been like bad people. Put these two things together and then tell your worldview somehow, so why don't we just party and government decide that we'll pay anyone how much and we'll stop talking about it? What are you talking about, some kind of dispute, some sort of cover? Yesterday you didn't have a source problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U179	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to come back to the fact that I thought I praised you yesterday. I continue to congratulate you, in the sense that you were a good minister, and I think you will have this opportunity in the future. Once again, I come back to what concerns the economic situation and the state budget. Yesterday we discussed issues where there are very clearly sources of cover in the state budget, this is a pre-arranged state budget procedure. This issue, which needs to be dealt with today, and urgently needs to be dealt with, is not part of the state budget today, there are no agreements, there are no final agreements. I understand that the cost of the state, estimated by the Government of the Republic as 15 million today, is quite a large sum. This requires finding very specific sources of cover and, as you know, as I said yesterday, you cannot live for a long time with the budget being in deficit. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] You can't live like this for a long time. Stability is needed, consistency is needed, and certainly your thoughts on how to discuss the budget, how to manage the budget are always grateful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U180	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U181	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! This is clearly a very time-critical issue. You said the Government of the Republic was coming up on the same subject with its bill. However, this would mean that we are losing time at a very critical moment in a situation where this virus really is spreading very quickly in working groups. Please explain to the Riigikogu what prevents us from moving forward with this bill. What prevents the Government of the Republic from proposing amendments here and adopting this draft, a very necessary draft, as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U182	Thank you. The first obstacle is certainly that the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu proposed to reject the draft at first reading, and it seems to me that the large hall has no will and no desire to move forward with it in this form. But I think that the main point of dispute is what the questioner also referred to: whether the first day remains a liability for the person or not. We know that in spring, when there was a corona crisis, a serious moment of crisis, the Government of the Republic gave this opportunity that people would be able to take the sick list from day one. People could take it on their own. At the time, this system justified itself, but today we need a more consistent and secure system than any temporary measure, and then come, for example, to apologise for this way of forecasting the third wave of the virus back to this debate. I think it is reasonable to wait now for what comes from the Government of the Republic, and I believe that the large hall of this house could support this bill. But once again, I understand that in the Government of the Republic, this debate is more or less at this stage, and the bill provides that the first day remains the responsibility of the person himself, the second, third, fourth, fifth day for the employer and then on to the state. I think that's a very sensible approach. Yeah, that's right. This is a very sensible approach, and also the fact that responsibility remains with all three parties is reasonable, such a distribution of responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U183	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U184	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Reasonableness is such a relative concept, it depends very much on the context. There is no doubt that the tripartite social partnership is a good principle; I have also supported it. But right now, you are in a situation where you have to justify your colleagues in government, right? It is the task of a coalition politician. Just doesn't really understand how it is possible since August, when this topic was first raised, that we actually have one of the most critical issues in preparing for the second wave of sickness days, in the meantime, the budget has been processed, money has been found for all kinds of pillows and pillows more than we have, in this matter it is still said that we have to think, we have to talk, we have to look for the sources of cover. When they're looking, they don't know, but they're still trying to find. The Prime Minister says he's still working to make sure he does, but I don't think the others are working, maybe it's not a priority enough for him either. How do you explain why we've come to the point of three months saying we have to think and discuss, but at the same time, people get sick and die?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U185	Thank you. I come first of all to the negotiations between employers and the trade union and the state. If we base this draft Group of the Social Democratic Party on today's draft, as the representative of the initiator of the draft has told us in the committee, you have negotiated them, but the results have not been positive. I understand that employers are the ones who may not be in a hurry to support your draft. The essence of your question was what was done for two or three months. These negotiations between employers, trade unions and the state have been lengthy. But they have been meaningful and, most importantly, they have come to fruition. I think that is the important difference that there has been some sort of result and concrete content and form in some negotiations, and I believe and hope that we will soon be able to discuss it in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, others have not had it in such a specific form and perhaps there is not such a positive outcome. I think that is one of the reasons why the Committee on Social Affairs did not support the completion of the first reading of this draft with the first impetus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U186	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U187	Thank you. Right now, we have 223 infected people per 100,000 people. I understand that this key question you have is either to make up for the first day or the second day. Frankly, in the big picture, it doesn't matter anymore. A decision is needed. How high does this infection have to be so that the government can feel the pressure to finally make this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U188	Thank you. I don't know. You're saying the infection rate is up 200. I'm not sure, I think this infection indicator is a completely different number, but let's not argue about it. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe you're wrong, I don't know who's wrong. I don't think this is the place where we have to hold this debate, that the infection rate is x, and then this bill definitely has to be carried out. Since we have the COVID virus in Estonia and the situation is relatively critical, we all understand very well in this Chamber. And I think that in order to prevent the spread of this virus, everyone has to work, the Government of the Republic is working, various agencies are working, including the Health Board. But I think that the members of the Riigikogu must also set a good example and work here, and for that I would like to congratulate all the political groups and all the members of the Riigikogu on the work being done. So I don't think it's worth linking these two things directly like this, but obviously the reimbursement of the sick list is one possible measure to prevent the spread of this virus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U189	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U190	Thank you. If I listen to you here and I put aside the Prime Minister's statements in Question Time, I understand that this reimbursement of the sick list, no matter what day it comes, will arrive by the time the vaccine is in place and most people are vaccinated. But my question is, do you support the fact that the first day of sickness benefits are guaranteed to people and with a higher percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U191	Thank you. No, I don't. At the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, I voted in favour of not passing the first reading of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U192	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U193	Thank you. Since you can't check the facts on the remote, I'm telling you you were wrong. Riina Sikkut is right: 223 is the rate of infection as of yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U194	Then he's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U195	However, the question is that if there is no agreement in the government on an important issue relating to human health, the virus is spreading at the rate we see and the decision cannot be taken for months, in some cases the reason may be that this solution is technically extremely difficult to achieve. Well, I guess we agree that, in fact, a very simple solution is to adopt the law, in essence, it is possible to implement it. It's possible it's so expensive, it's just too much. We recognise that, in this case, there has been no problem in covering much higher costs, which are less priority. And the third option is that someone's dragging his legs. So who's dragging these legs in the coalition? Is there not enough time to spend on this issue to reach a decision, or is someone specifically opposed to it? Because it's not an adequate answer to discussing, thinking, discussing, thinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U196	Thank you. I think that, through long discussions, good results will also be produced. As far as the government is concerned or footsteps are concerned, I think it's gorgeous. I think it's a step, nobody drags their feet, everyone raises them to the right height, so they don't wear shoes. In this sense, I say once again: I am an optimist and I consider the substance of this draft to be good. The Government of the Republic also said in its position on this draft that the content is good, the content is correct. There is no one against the aim of us coming forward with compensation for sick days. It is about these tripartite negotiations, these results, but also about the sources of budget coverage.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U197	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U198	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This issue of compensation for sick days is not now a matter of two or three months ago; we have already seen this need in the spring. Obviously, we would have gone much further if the government and the government coalition had dealt with important matters. But in the meantime, it was found that important things are, for example, supporting luxury real estate in the centre of Tallinn with 40 million euros and some cake distributions and all that stuff. You said that three months had been negotiated with the social partners. How many meetings were needed with employers' and workers' representatives to reach this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U199	Thank you. First of all, I come back to the fact that you said that it was as if the government did not pay attention to this matter in the spring. In my previous or previous reply, I said very clearly that it was precisely by decision of the Government of the Republic in the spring that, as a crisis measure, the possibility of people taking sick leave was given to take sick days on their own from day one. A separate application was created for this purpose. I think it was a very interactive, very good measure and it worked very well at that time. It is now necessary to find a much longer and more meaningful measure. Personally, it is my personal opinion that I am in favour of finding a measure here that is a little longer than one year or two years. It should be such a long-sighted thing because, as we know, many scientists, professors have said that we are going to live with this disease. And maybe we don't even know what's gonna happen in three or four years. That is why it must be a bill that fits all ages. It's very important. The second thing is how many of these negotiations have been held between trade unions, employers and the Ministry. Look, these are tripartite negotiations where the Riigikogu does not have a role. I have no record of this, but I know these negotiations were long. But most importantly, they were meaningful, and they came up positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U200	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U201	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have to say, as an introduction, that I like the idea of this bill. I mean, I see a contradiction. The government is always saying that the largest outbreaks are now jobs, but at the same time government measures are aimed at limiting the opening hours of bars and restaurants and restricting alcohol sales. At times, I get the feeling that either there is so much drinking at workplaces or that the two messages come together. But if it is that jobs are the places where they spread, then there could be some measure to really keep people home from day one. I would be happy to see that this draft remains in the process, but there is an amendment to the fact that it is valid for a certain period, either until the end of February or the end of March. And by looking at the way the government has spent money here and there in the state budget, I think this would be a very sensible measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U202	Thank you. I suggest you perhaps take a ten-minute break here before the vote and hold a group meeting. I think you're gonna love this bill. I don't think one of your colleagues liked it that much. Here, too, you need to form some kind of unified position before the vote. Who says that the first day is not reasonable, who says that the second day is reasonable. I don't know. And I don't want to interfere with your inner life. I know that you have always been the party that looks at the long term, and you have always been the party that supports entrepreneurship. The position of employers is certainly very important to you too. And in my opinion, the position of employers on this draft was not positive. But once again, discuss it with each other. I do not quite agree with what you said here or have pointed out that we will make sure that this draft is time-bound. I still don't think we know if February-March is the time. But maybe it's May-April, but maybe it's July. It's very unpredictable. I think it is necessary to take a moment's time off here, but at least make a decision that is long-term and that also endures various other viral waves and economic difficulties.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U203	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U204	Thank you for the floor. Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs! I can see that all these excuses, why not do something, you've been very well acquired. Although for me, it is incomprehensible to the active politician such a philosophical-fatalist attitude that we do not know what will come tomorrow and the position of hands-up. I think it is very dangerous for our society that you view it that way, because it can have very sad consequences. But then please answer my question: what do these people have to do, and there are many in Estonia who will receive less than 1,000 euros' wages and who will now face Christmas today and tomorrow there will probably be dozens of these people, perhaps hundreds of them in this situation, that they should not go to work, because they have some symptoms, but if they do not go to work, then they will have a budget for December for him and his child, not 700 euros, but 600 euros. What's he supposed to do? Please tell these people, the people of Estonia will certainly be able to adjust their behaviour to this. As Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, you can say what they have to do in such a situation, what choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U205	Thank you. Well, my brief recommendation can only continue to be that it is not reasonable to go to work with symptoms. But once again: I am optimistic, and I sincerely hope that we will receive some kind of signal from the government this year that we are moving forward with the reimbursement of sick days. What is the final agreement going to be, what is the cost forecast, it is not the subject of this draft today, but I see that this is one possible way out. And just as the Government of the Republic said: the content of the draft, the fact that we are bringing compensation for sick days forward, is also supported by the Government of the Republic. However, the main point of dispute is whether compensation must be paid from the first day or from the second or third. There are these bottlenecks, and I guess we'll have to discuss them. And I do not think that these tripartite agreements and, above all, the cost of employers are of minor importance either. I think these are bottlenecks, they are points of debate and they must be debated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U206	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U207	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Of course, it is absolutely unbelievable to hear from you the words that we expect, perhaps by the end of this year, there will be some kind of signal from the government that will receive it. I do not know whether it is difficult to imagine what it means to have a salary of EUR 600 and to lose EUR 100, not only during Christmas, but also in January and also in November. We put these people in a very difficult position with our inaction, or rather you put them in a very difficult position with your inaction. And it is also very difficult to require people to make sacrifices in the name of society if society or the state does not meet them in any way. You've been saying that the government has a vision, that all coalition ambassadors here have said that everything is fine and fine. So what were the reasons why you didn't want this bill to go faster?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U208	Thank you. First of all, I come back to the fact that it was as if the government did not care about people or that the government had left people on their own in the face of this corona crisis. I don't think so. Let me give you another example of this spring. The state paid wage subsidies for three or four months, depending on the sector. I think it's a very big step. Think like this: these people still received a guaranteed income from the state. I think it was a very big step. That is precisely the step that, at a critical moment, people do not lose their jobs, their income, so that families are kept. The second thing, compensation for sick days in the spring, in my opinion, is a very good measure, a rapid measure, an operational measure. Yes, whether cost-effective, whether cost-effective, but fast, in a time of crisis, a very good measure in an emergency, is operationally resolved. The people of Estonia must be commended for not abusing it. Family doctors say that there were very few sick leaves that were taken without justification. So people's sense of responsibility in these critical times is very good. And I do not share your view, I think that the government has supported people and continues to support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U209	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U210	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Good Tõnis, I personally share your concern that not all of my party associates have synchronised their positions with me. But we do have such a strange party that thinking with our head is allowed and sometimes some think wrong. However, as regards this measure and your claim that employers do not exactly support this draft, I think that if you were to give employers a choice as to whether this draft, the measure that is currently being proposed by the socialists and which would apply until the end of March, or what you are all the time suggesting that the government is coming with some long-term, long-term, long-term, which will make our labour market work under the conditions of the pandemic, I am, for some reason, certain that employers would prefer this draft here. And I see no reason why we should find a very long-term solution to this epidemic, which will most likely end next year. So my question is, maybe this and for a limited time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U211	Thank you. Dear colleague, it seems to me that you have more information than we have in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. You are optimistic that next year this virus will end, you have information that there will be no problem in February-March. I don't have that information, and for God's sake, I'd be very happy if you were right. We don't want to live in this difficult situation. Returning to your question of what employer's position is, it is very unpredictable. These are the facts we had in the Committee on Social Affairs. We know that employers have approved this draft, which is under discussion in the Government of the Republic, but have not approved this draft, which the Social Democratic Party Group has brought to the debate here today in the big Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U212	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U213	Thank you, good Vice-President of the Riigikogu Helir! This is also a question for you as a coalition partner to the 'chief' of the group, but I will still ask Tõnis. I'll tell you a little bit about it. In one small area of Estonia, the local government leaders did not take this korona seriously at all. It was only last week that a friend of the parish leader who unfortunately had to leave because of the korona also put a little more serious tone on the parish leaders and began to wonder how the spread of this pandemic could be combated. My question is: what should happen in Estonia so that you can just stop these long discussions and get started? What has to happen when this coefficient has to go up?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U214	Thank you. This question has already been asked once, I say again, we are not talking about a specific coefficient of infection or specific numbers. I am terribly sorry that this virus has devastated the whole of Estonia, the whole world, and that these consequences are as serious as you have just described. Yes, it is truly a pity! We are discussing this draft and we want to change the sickness-day compensation system. This current system has been running for ten years and a few years. It has endured all these crises, both economic crises and disease crises. I think that the next step we are going to take must be one that will have to endure strongly for the next ten years, and so that we will not have to hold this debate again in this big Chamber. It is a bill that really helps people to prevent the spread of the disease even more and other such threats to society. I am optimistic in this respect, and I sincerely hope that we will move on with this. I continue to say that in the spring of the crisis, in an emergency situation, the government adopted a very rapid and clear measure, it was a good measure, but, as we understand it, it was certainly not a long-term measure. That is why we need to find a long-term solution today to replace this temporary measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U215	Dear colleague Kalvi! The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu does not provide for substantive questions to be submitted to the President when reading drafts. It is possible to ask procedural questions. And for the sake of the verbatim: I am not the head of any political group. Let's keep going. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U216	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good chairman of the committee! Your blurring reminds me of the situation when the house is on fire and the Rescue Board says yes, the situation is very bad, we'll see what we can do tomorrow morning. You also represent the government coalition here today. I understand very well that today's government union is unfortunately not ready to support this draft, a very necessary draft. But at least tell the people of Estonia the date when the government will finally arrive in this hall with its draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U217	Thank you. Well, this example of a house burning is a very, very serious example. You had Question Time, I understand you were busy with work, but at the same time the alarm in the Riigikogu began to work. I'll be honest with you, I was worried. I came out of my office, made sure everything was okay. Luckily, the situation worked out, it was just a technical failure. Let's just say that if there is a serious disturbance and such serious accidents happen, then a serious response must also be made. The question of when and if the government comes up with its bill, I can't answer. There was no specific date in the Committee on Social Affairs, but I welcome the fact that this tripartite agreement, i.e. the prerequisite for a government decision, exists. I am thinking of a tripartite agreement between employers, trade union and the Ministry of Social Affairs, or a representative of the state, and I believe that the Government of the Republic will come up with some sort of solution in its discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U218	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U219	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. First, a little chat with you. I know you have Priit as the chairman of the group, but Priit is also the secretary-general and the secretary-general has a lot of work to do. The chairmen of political parties usually do not have a job; they can still be the vice-chairman of the Riigikogu and probably also lead the political group, so that is why. But here's my question. This incidence rate is several times higher than it was in the spring. Then we reacted quickly and effectively. If you say, Tõnis, that this law has worked for ten years, name a disease that has been so devastating and has needed restraint over the past ten years. It seems to me that there is a technical failure in the government in this case, that it cannot be delivered quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U220	Thank you. I'm gonna start with that last sentence again. I do not think that there is a technical failure in the government, that there is a good working atmosphere in the government, and I believe that this very important issue will continue to be debated and that they will have a positive outcome. As for the course of the disease, I am certainly neither a virologist nor an epidemiologist nor anything more in this area. I really don't know how to predict it. I think we have very strong scientists in Estonia, very strong experts, doctors who can evaluate, analyze and observe the course of the disease. At this point, simply in the sense of information, that the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu will certainly keep an eye on these issues, and I think that next week we have invited representatives of the Scientific Advisory Board to our committee. This should be the kind of hearing that you and all the people of Estonia can observe. I think this is a good place where we can get an overview of the cost of the disease, see the predictions and the current situation, which are these critical points. We must take this disease very seriously. Each light-handed step, too, can have serious consequences, as you pointed out in your previous question. I really wouldn't want such consequences; it doesn't please any of the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U221	Honourable Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, there are no further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Yes, Signe Riisalo, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U222	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just listened to the last part of the debate in which the Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs presented the draft on behalf of the Commission, and I thought that some people, workers, employees and many employers, entrepreneurs and the head of some institutions will most likely listen to this debate. What message do we give from this Riigikogu? All parties agree: yes, the virus must be kept away from humans. Yeah, it's mostly in the workplace, that's what the virologists say. Yes, the Health Department has said, good people, if you experience symptoms, stay home. At the same time, however, the State is not even able to agree on a temporary measure to alleviate the situation of both the employee and the employer. Because this draft, perhaps in a somewhat modified form, will not only help an employee save his or her income, but, more importantly, save his or her health, but will actually also help the employer to keep those who are not yet ill at work and those who are not forced to be in close contact with self-insulation. If we were in a normal situation, maybe I'd talk a little different. But we're not in a normal situation. This virus is a problem that affects all of us in the same way. We are all people, regardless of whether we are members of the Riigikogu, members of the government, employers or employees. Indeed, this draft, which is the subject of today's debate, has not received the support of employers. But we all know, and it has been said repeatedly, that the Confederation of Employers has reached an agreement with members of the government that it might be reasonable to come to the aid of people and employers as a temporary measure from the second day on. It is quite distinctive to listen to all this dialogue here, predicting the future of the virus in Estonia. At the same time, this autumn, the Reform Party Group has asked the government to carry out an analysis of the lessons learned in the spring and has expected that, as a result, there would also be thoughtful and transparent measures to help people and help businesses. This is not considered necessary by the Riigikogu, nor does the government consider it necessary because such an analysis is not required today. In April, the government adopted an excellent document such as the emergency exit strategy. The five sub-routines had to come from different ministries, one of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who was also involved in this draft. On 4 June, the government discussed this action plan, but last week's Social Affairs Committee meeting said it was an AK document and it was not shown to members of the Riigikogu. It was also said that a newer, newer and more modern document would come in November. Dear colleagues! In November, there will be an action plan to deal with the second wave. This is outrageous! And here we are arguing. Therefore, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I invite all of you, good members of the Riigikogu, not to reject this bill, to leave open this door so that we, as members of the Riigikogu by 1 January, may be able to accept it in a modified form, but a draft that will help people to work and employers. We are proposing amendments, we are improving this draft, because we know that the Government of the Republic has so far failed to decide or remain within the time frame which would allow the Riigikogu to process the draft which they have prepared here. I rarely congratulate a member of the cabinet, but I would like to say thank you to Tanel Kiige and his employees, as well as to the representatives of trade unions and representatives of the Confederation of Employers. Those decisions, which have been taken as a temporary measure from the second day onwards [to compensate for sick days], are actually in the interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U223	Thank you. Mr Ossinovski, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U224	Thank you, Mr President. A very strange situation, all the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and the Prime Minister today in Question Time, recognise that the situation with the spread of the virus is critical. It is acknowledged that if there are no more serious changes in society in the coming weeks towards positivity, it may get out of control at all. And indeed, there are few people in this Chamber, as well as among members of the government, who have scientific or medical competence to predict the virological situation. But fortunately, this deficit has been corrected. Those specialists who are in Estonia have spoken and said exactly the same for months, that most people of working age are infected at the workplace and that action must be taken against it. In this situation, to hear that we are thinking, we are discussing, we are preparing to think, we are discussing how to think, frankly, at the beginning, it just seems like a normal political empty story, which is due to the fact that there are some disputes up there. But in a situation where people's lives and health are at stake, because at one point when the virus is spreading out of control and at least temporarily in some areas of Estonia it has done so, its social costs are very high. And I am not only thinking about human lives, I am also thinking about the hundreds of millions of euros that will then be lost in Estonian society, because more stringent measures must be taken against companies and for the wider closure of society. One of the simplest things that can be done in this context and on which we have had a joint decision is the days of illness. Of course, you can start looking here for world-view disputes about whether it's the first day or the second day. Well, when they get drunk on the first day, the next day is hungover and they say they're sick. We have heard such arguments. All right! It is not a question of necessarily supporting this bill. There are alternative options that have been on the table. It would have been easiest and most certainly necessary to decide in September to temporarily cover the disease pages taken with symptoms of upper respiratory tract disease from the government reserve. There was no problem doing that, would have been done a long time ago. How much more could we have contained this epidemic because of this decision? There was no decision. Of course, the second day and 70% are better than today. It has not been a question of the fact that in this Chamber it is not prepared to seek an exact compromise on how to improve the system of sickness benefits for the control of the virus. The problem has been elsewhere. And the argument that temporary measures could have been implemented, yes, and then indeed could have prevented several deaths, but we would still like to have a longer period of time, I don't remember what the word was in a specific system of something. Look, it kind of reminds me if you have a home that hasn't been repaired in 15 years. Undoubtedly, then, a husband and I may discuss that if we ever do repairs, we will paint the wall red or blue, whether we will put a muffled wallpaper or a flower wallpaper. But at the same time, if you start burning the roof, you should still grab the bucket, not say that the fire is not going to be extinguished now, because we are still looking for longer-term solutions to the problem of our home. In fact, these solutions are not opposite each other. The government should decide today to make an emergency compensation system out of this government reserve until the Riigikogu takes the decision. In fact, there is no question here that it will not be possible to reach this substantive agreement within a few hours if there is political will. And the fact that this agreement has not been reached may be due to the lack of political will, at least for all members of the government. Or somebody in the government coalition has incomprehensible opposition, which is hidden, and for some reason does not suggest that it be publicly said that it is opposed. Or maybe priorities are elsewhere. Here colleagues applauded that they could hold a senseless referendum. Perhaps then the Government of the Republic will deal more with people's private problems than with antivirus. To be honest, this is exceptionally irresponsible and in this context incomprehensible. I really hope that, as a society and as a parliament, we can keep up the pressure that will eventually come to this decision in the coming days, because this decision is urgently needed in order to get the virus under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U225	Thank you. Mart Helme, please, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U226	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I was mobilized to come to this remote control by the previous speaker's expression "unreasonable referendum. " I wouldn't have come here if it wasn't for anything else. The honourable MP's story was completely meaningless, meaningless, non-solutional and completely, I would say this: incompetent. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Yeah, that's great! You know who laughs the most? Half-wit. Now let's get down to business. Do you know a European or world country that would have been able to fight coronavir effectively? We see a whole series of countries with curfews, people cannot go outside a certain perimeter, a special permit is needed to walk a dog, a duty to wear a mask, a penalty for not wearing a mask, a ban on public gatherings. But what's going on? It's spreading the corona. The working model for this disease has not been invented anywhere and is not invented in Estonia. There is only one model in Estonia, and this has been the case in other countries as well. It's a radical siege of people's movements, people's meetings. And now we ask the question: will the Social Democratic Party compensate for all these economic losses, all those lost wages, all those bankrupt companies? No, I'm not. Then someone comes back here to whine senselessly into the air and says the government has to do it, the government has to take money out of the reserve, the government has to pay for it-- the other one. You see, socialists, Communism collapsed because there was no money to pay off everything, and there is no money to pay everything in this country either. Hopeless, that's not gonna happen. Therefore, when we look at this whole picture, we see one thing very clearly: to a significant extent, the virus is entering us now across the border. And now if we say we're gonna shut down the borders, we're gonna take control of the borders, who's gonna start screaming first? Globalists will be the first to yell at how the government wants to shut down the state, the government wants a closed Estonia, the government is undemocratic, etc. We heard it in the spring, but you know how to multiply it now in the fall. We are not convinced that social resonance to impose major restrictions would be positive. We are not convinced that another bankruptcy of certain areas of activity, of certain economic areas, with major constraints, would make sense. By the way, this bill also fits into this context. This bill is a pure Communist bill because it again requires the government to channel additional resources. True, I would say that for a relatively reasonable and noble purpose, but to channel additional resources. But where does this extra resource come from, and the communists never know or ask? Except when the money's gone, they're gonna start looking at who else they can take away to fill that hole. And that's why I don't think the coalition ambassadors are gonna push the green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U227	Thank you. Indrek Saar, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U228	Yeah, I have a procedural request for the chair of the hearing. We obviously saw everything that was generally condemned when we wrote the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and certainly created this country. We saw that the Riigikogu Chair, which is spoken of not only with its political opponents, but also with the Estonian people, uses expressions that are obviously beyond certain limits and are not used by polite people. And here, I think, it is the duty of the President of the Riigikogu to bring this to the attention of his colleagues. If you noticed the words that Mart Helme started this speech, I think there would have been a reason to draw his attention to the fact that we could still remain polite to each other. Not to mention that Mart Helme, of course, has not understood the idea of this bill, but it is not the President's duty to explain it to him.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U229	Thank you. I noticed and even wrote that one of the performers began with the term "witnesses" and the speaker before him ended with the word "unresponsible." One speaker ended with an 'unreasonable referendum' and the other started with 'unreasonable talk'. So, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you indeed to be very correct in your speech. Jevgeni Ossinovski, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U230	I have an address.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U231	Yes, please! That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U232	Firstly, however, there are two different things that exist in a political dispute. One thing is whether someone thinks that someone's speech or position is pointless, and the other is to compare democratically elected members of the parliament of the Republic of Estonia and the political forces represented here with the mainstreams of repressive totalitarian regimes. That's your point. But it's a reception. Indeed, Mr Helme's words confirm what I said that priorities are elsewhere when he himself admitted that he was moved by the remote control to go on the question of referendum, not the virus. This certainly is also true because he had failed to understand what I was saying and what the Socialists were proposing. We have not called for harsh restrictions, but, on the contrary, we said that one thing, and that is the purpose of this bill, which can be done in order to avoid general social constraints, which will have a very high social price in economic terms and, more generally, socially, is compensation for sick days. This would allow people to stay at home voluntarily and thus control the virus without restrictions. No substantial reason why this should not be decided could anyone bring out today's waitresses. They say everyone agrees, but they decide and think. In this sense, the truth must be acknowledged that Mr Helme at least acknowledged that he was against compensating for the homelessness of sick people. He thinks people don't need support at a difficult time if they stay home with corona disease. At least the picture became clearer. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U233	Thank you. My colleague, I cannot agree with your comment in any way. There are Communist parties in completely democratic countries, and there are parties spreading communist ideas in completely democratic countries. But let's move on to today's agenda. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The Commission's proposal is to reject the draft 244 at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 244 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U234	51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 26 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Today's first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U235	Today's second item is the second reading of Bill 254 of the National Budget Act 2021 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U236	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft National Budget Act 2021 for the second reading at its meetings of 26 October, 4, 9 and 10 November. Next year, state budget spending will amount to almost EUR 13 billion and revenue will amount to nearly EUR 11 billion. The difference is due to the necessary investment to restore economic growth, which means that expenditure exceeds revenue growth. The volume of government investment will amount to around EUR 1.9 billion next year. The European Union's contribution to the national budget for 2021 is planned at more than EUR 1.4 billion. Tax revenue will rise to EUR 9.3 billion next year, with around EUR 9 billion this year. The tax burden will fall to 32.7% of GDP next year, this year it was 33.8%. By the deadline for submitting amendments, including 2 November, 43 amendments were submitted to the draft by the members of the Riigikogu and by the political groups. The Committee on Finance drafted an amendment consisting of several parts, which largely contains clarifications within and between the areas of government of the ministries. Also an amendment regarding the need to support the continuation of international maritime transport through Estonian ports and to motivate consignees to channel their trade flows through Estonian ports. This frees ships entering Estonian ports from 1 April of the following year until the end of the following year and compensates for the loss of income in the state budget. Explanations of the amendments can be found in the list of amendments. The committee ignored the amendments received from the political groups and members of the Riigikogu. During the discussion of the amendments, the representative of the Ministry of Finance provided further information on the proposals and the sources of coverage they provided, which formed the basis for the Commission's views. The most important of these recitals was the following: The exemption of pensions from the income tax liability to an average old-age pension would affect only those pensioners whose pension exceeds the average old-age pension. A fairer measure in terms of income distribution is an extraordinary pension increase, which also benefits pensioners whose pension is below the average. In the Local Government Support Fund, the proposed basic amount for roads is EUR 29,3 million. This year's additional budget provided an additional EUR 30 million, which shows an increase compared to 2021. The amendment does not increase the resources for the maintenance of local roads twice, but aims to change the allocation principles. In order to renovate Tallinn City Hall, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has been provided with funds for the years 2022 and 2023. Increasing the school lunch grant from the state budget does not necessarily increase the use of organic food in schools. Such changes require precise objectives to be defined in advance and agreed with the local authorities. The average wage of teachers is estimated at EUR 1540 this year, representing 108% of the average wage in the country. The wage growth of teachers in Estonia has been one of the fastest in the OECD countries. Both the innovation agency and the applied research programme are being set up on the basis of EAS, under the direction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. EUR 12.6 million has already been planned for design by 2021. It is not possible to speed up the process so much. The thematic plans planned are in place to mobilise EUR 20 million in additional planning tools. The Ministry of Education and Research will retain the planned study grant funds each year. Vocational training has a high rate of interruptions. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. 21.7% of students stopped vocational training The operating grants granted to universities by the State are awarded in management contracts and financing agreements between universities and the Ministry of Education and Research. The allocation of resources to a particular university is not an equal treatment for all universities. The Government of the Republic has decided to allocate EUR 12.8 million from 2021 to the Ministry of Education and Research for additional funding of activities resulting from university management contracts. There will be a real increase of EUR 7.8 million. The transition to a single Estonian-language education must take place gradually, with a total of 8 million euros planned to support students with a different native language from the Estonian language in their acquisition of the Estonian language. The current National Defence Development Plan 2017 has foreseen that the developed capabilities must be in line with the resource resources of Estonian national defence during the life cycle. The Ministry of Defence takes due account of the budgetary resources provided for the development of coastal defence capabilities and builds on the approved country's budget strategy from 2021 to 2024. With the additional budget, EUR 200 million was allocated to the Rural Development Foundation by 2020 in order to provide the agricultural and food sector and organic operators with different economic measures to alleviate the economic difficulties caused by the spread of the Corona virus. Yesterday, on the proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, an amendment giving farmers a contribution of EUR 12 million was prepared for the third reading of the draft law amending the state budget for 2020. With an additional budget, €25 million was allocated to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to support the tourism sector by 2020, of which €5.7 million was allocated in October to target groups outside the crisis action in spring 2020. Under the European Union Re-launch Facility, €5 million of support is planned for local authorities to set up light traffic routes. The budget is planned for a EUR 4.2 million support measure for passive broadband infrastructure for access networks with electricity leakage in 2021, which is expected to receive 40000 addresses for access to the ultra-fast access network in rural areas by the end of 2023. In addition, the recovery plan envisages instruments for the completion of the last mile connections. In the state budget of 2020, funds were planned to increase the share capital of Eesti Energia company in order to make oil shale energy more environmentally friendly, gradually replacing oil shale production with co-generation of electricity by direct burning. The Treasury cannot continue to lend to local authorities in a way that is more favourable than market conditions, otherwise competition rules will be violated. In granting the loan, the Treasury must still base itself on the average market margin. As the margin cannot be won, it is reasonable to leave the lending of local authorities to the banks. The market failure in accessing credit is not that the central government should intervene in competition and reduce the opportunities for the private sector to provide services. In 2020, the Government of the Republic decided not to increase salaries. In addition to the economic forecast, wage growth has stopped all activities in 2020 and, taking into account seasonal factors, the average wage has decreased compared to the first quarter. In order to ensure the solidarity of pensions, the pension formula is changed, where the pension rights of the first pillar are 50% dependent on social tax and 50% dependent on seniority. The increase in the share will slow the increase in inequality in the first pillar pension and ensure a better income for low-paid people in old age. This law will apply from 1 January next year. The costs necessary for designing Tallinn Hospital are initially planned from the EU 2021+ funds and taken into account from 2022. The concept of long-term care was submitted to the Government of the Republic in November 2019. In the new period of external resources (EU 2021+), the proposed long-term maintenance load-related activities will be financed. The amount of the loan burden is calculated for today's revenues and expenses. This reduction should also lead to a reduction in expenditure. Pursuant to § 28 (2) of the State Budget Act, the State Budget Act sets out provisions whose obligation to submit is a legal act or which relate to the organisation or conditions of the collection, receipt, brokering or use of state budget resources in the financial year. The text of the annual budget therefore explicitly reflects the use of state budget resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U237	Thank you. You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U238	Thank you, dear waitress. First of all, let me make a little bit of a clarification. The public budget does not have 1.9 billion investments, but 963 million. Local authorities make investments from their own budget, financed either by loans or by their own revenues, they are not right to include them in the state budget, so do not mislead them. But I'm going to ask you a little bit more about it. You mentioned Tallinn City Hall. This is planned in 2022-2023, but in the budget explanatory memorandum there is a heading such as grants to municipalities, there are 20 million for Tallinn City Hall for some reason in 2021. I'm asking you what they're doing for that $20 million. Probably being designed, but what's being designed, the concert hall, the conference center or both together?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U239	Thank you, Aivar, for the clarification and the question. Why don't you help me? What point did we have under the proposed amendment? If you ask me what exactly is being designed, the answer is that it has never been discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs what should come from the city hall in the future. There is an agreement between the Government of the Republic and the city of Tallinn to renovate the city hall in this decade, and there have been many different discussions that should be in this building, from the conference centre to the concert halls. In the spring, before the arrival of the Korona, there was also a private company in Estonia, Tallink Grupp, who was ready to start negotiations with the city of Tallinn, that Tallink Group would renovate the city hall and build a port for ships. This project has been shut down for today. But the investment of 20 million is, of course, first for evaluating and designing the state of the building today. But what exactly is being designed there is decided by the city of Tallinn, because this object is still owned by the city of Tallinn today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U240	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U241	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned this year's budget and possible agricultural subsidies. The farms proposed that this support be twice as high, and I proposed to the Committee on Monetary Affairs that this support be at least at the so-called 'transition' rate of 15.3 million. The signicant meaning of transitional support has, in my view, always been important to this government. So why didn't they find at least 15.3 million, not to mention the 22 or 24 million that the agricultural organisations themselves wanted as a proposal? If, perhaps, some subsidies were not granted through the MES, for example, to road companies, there would have been money for crisis measures in the broader sense, which would reach the entrepreneur directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U242	Thank you. Let's start from the back. While in the Committee on Monetary Affairs there was a debate on the MES measure, the possibility of applying for EUR 200 million in loans and subsidies was initially very critical and it was thought that the agricultural sector was too small. At the end of the debate on the additional budget, it was agreed that this support could be requested by all companies operating in the country. This "operations in the country" meant that Tartu, Tallinn and one local government sided with Tallinn were excluded, and companies operating in other municipalities could ask for support from it. I don't know that road builder. I don't know who the road builder was, who got the loan there. I must congratulate the entire Committee on Monetary Affairs today. Twice in a row, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has, with its decision, supported agriculture with its proposal. Last year there were top-up's 5 million plus and this year there were 12 million extra. I have not received any proposals from any committee in the field to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have received these proposals from the political groups and members of the Riigikogu, but all areas will certainly also be discussed in the sectoral committees. On some issues, we usually ask for information from the sectoral committees, but as an entrepreneur, I say that 12 million is 12 million. I thank you for the offer, it was perhaps 15.3 million, if I remember correctly, but I think a few weeks ago we talked about 5 million, then we talked about 10, and finally we managed to make a deal for 12 million. This is the Commission's decision, and I believe and hope that next week, when the proposals for amending the additional budget for 2020 are being discussed in this Chamber, they will all be supported by consensus. Today, I can say that 12 million have received the Commission's consensual support. Whether more resources will be found between second and third readings next year, I do not dare to say today. At the moment, there is no agreement to cover it. If a source of cover is found, it will be possible to come back to this topic in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U243	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U244	Thank you. Good Aivar! I believe in your foresight, and I'm sure you've expressed your views many times. At the same time, while you were doing the story, national broadcasting knew that the second reading of the state budget had been completed. As far as I know, we're still trying to discuss this here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U245	Yeah, I'm gonna tell you... Okay! When a story was misread in broadcasting that had been written about preparing an additional budget for 2020 for a second reading, it was written about its wisdom in 2021. I listened to the show myself, I know what was sent there. The press release was written correctly. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U246	Mr President, can I have my 40 seconds back, please? Thank you! I would also like to add to my question, which has often been your own position and which you have previously expressed here in the Riigikogu Chair, that if the Riigikogu sees somewhere a concern or a government error, it must be corrected. Consequently, in view of the fact that we are in deficit with a budget of 2 billion, I ask you who should be responsible in the Riigikogu for shaping monetary policy and organising the work of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, how does it seem to you that it is not a mistake that the government has brought a budget with a minus two billion to us here? Do you think it's all right that we have such a budget deficit and didn't the Committee on Monetary Affairs consider it necessary to reduce it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U247	Thank you. If you look at the position that was at the beginning of September, when all the ministries had presented their wishes to the budget for 2021, I can safely say that in these negotiations I was also the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and we cut very much. At some point, there was a place where there was a feeling that if you cut it again, you had to cut someone or something. If we look at what is happening around the world today, we have always set Germany an example as a country with proper budgetary discipline. We can see very clearly that Germany, too, has gone down this road of borrowing to boost the economy. Most credit facilities go either for investments or for wage subsidies, for example, in order to support both employers and employees at some point in time in order to overcome this economic crisis more easily. Today, 2 billion is the number on this table. Is this [deficiency] expected to increase over the years? I say in my opinion that if there is no crisis as bad as it was in the spring, then it is certainly the task of the government that the RES debate must be saved, not lashed. So this budget, too, certainly, compared to the additional budget, is a very decent and austerity budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U248	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U249	Thank you, good manager. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! In Question Time today, the Prime Minister said that he would deny that teachers' salaries were frozen for four years. When I look at the government's budget strategy, it says very clearly that teachers' salaries are maintained at the current level. When I look at the budget statement, there's a story about keeping the level. Who is now misleading, the Prime Minister or the budget strategy and the budget explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U250	I think I was practically in the middle of all the budget negotiations and there, and there was talk about 2021, and there was an agreement that all salaries, including teachers' wages, would be frozen this year. How it came to be four years, that's the question, I think, of all coalition politicians. It's a finger.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U251	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U252	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned in your report that none of the amendments made by a member of the Riigikogu or a political group found support in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. At the same time, you praised the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, including those of the opposition, that there was constructive and good work and you were able to table a number of amendments on its behalf. Would you like to open up a little bit of the issue of how it is possible that we have a series of amendments by political groups and members of the Riigikogu, and none of them fits? What's wrong with them, or why can't they be counted?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U253	Thank you. When I look at the amendments, it is the correct answer that we did not support any of the amendments. When we look the other way, I also said, in my report and in reply to Urmas, that, for example, in support of the various areas of the agricultural sector, the EUR 12 million introduced as a correction for this year's budget, or most of the requests for support that the agricultural sector has, is written here. There are also issues that will certainly come between second and third readings. The draft is in preparation and, if the Members of the Commission support it, we can vote on it. For example, when we released EUR 5 000 from income tax on the additional budget for those involved in forestry, the same exemption has been prepared for the next year, at my request, for self-employed workers who are active in the agricultural sector. However, this does not have a direct impact on the budget for 2021. Income tax refund can only be requested in 2022 when the income tax return is submitted. There are issues that have been resolved, there are issues that will be resolved, and there are still issues that are in the air that have not reached agreements or compromises, at whose expense or at what cost to cover these costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U254	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U255	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! To be precise: you really said very correctly that the salaries of our teachers have increased very rapidly compared to the OECD countries, but despite this growth, the wages of Estonian teachers remain among the lowest in the OECD countries. But I want to ask you about the school psychologists. You have said in the press that the Socialist proposal to fund the school psychologists' professional year is sympathetic to you. There were 11 delegates who proposed it, two of them were indeed Social Democrats. We know that only 36% of schools have a school psychologist. The law tells us that the state must provide free psychological support for a child in need of help within seven days. What's your plan, how do we get to have a school psychologist at every school? Because I understand that this proposal was not supported at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U256	Thank you for a very good question and thank you for that clarification. If you ask me, it's really, really, it's on my mind, and it's one area that's not a joke, it's very important. We also know what cases we have had with our children in recent years. I had contact with ministers on the subject, most of all with the Minister of Education. The good minister of education assured me that in his budget these funds were available to support the issue of school psychologists. Now there are several different questions. One is what I have not actually received the final answer to, although I have asked several members of the Riigikogu and also school psychologists. This is the subject that school psychologists are trained in two universities. The second is that when they graduate, they have a year's work to do before they get a statement. And the third question is, should the municipalities be supported so that they can hire a psychologist in their schools? I understand that there are few educated psychologists. This is the most critical place. The order of magnitude, how much money has been asked, is at several hundred thousand euros. There are bigger and smaller numbers. I must also admit that the lobby that deals with this area every day and who has come to us with this problem, both to you and to me, has also been in contact with the officials of two ministries, but it does not seem that this concerns come to the ministers. I am just saying that I asked again last week on the same subject, and we will try to discuss and find solutions on this issue at the beginning of next week. I also asked the Minister of Education to see where this capacity was. We must then decide between second and third readings whether or not to seek resources there. Thank you, Liina!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U257	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. The current difficult time in healthcare with regard to COVID-19 has brought more into our consciousness than was the role of nurse some time ago. 11 Members of the Reform Party proposed to raise the salaries of nurses by giving more money to the health insurance fund. Just such a fact that almost 600 nurses' jobs are currently vacant in Estonia and this additional strain threatens to further increase the shortage of nurses. That was a very sensible proposal. I ask you directly: did this issue also give you any discussion in the committee and what was the main argument why it was not supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U259	Thank you. If we look at the state budget for next year, there will also be an additional allowance for the sickness fund. Unfortunately, the state cannot give the nurses a salary directly, it relates to contracts between the health insurance fund and hospitals. While we can make proposals through the Health Insurance Board and recommend that these agreements be opened up and provided with additional resources, at the moment the supplementary funding for the Health Insurance Fund is foreseen for the next three years, both in the budget and in the RES.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U260	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U261	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm going to the wind of the two previous questioners. We know that the state's debt burden is now 6.6 billion, and every person in Estonia must bear 5100 euros of it, which is a very large amount for a very large part of the people. If we think about what this person will actually get in return for, if we look at the state budget, in today's health crisis, we know that in 15 years' time, the health fund will have a deficit of 900 million. We have heard from you that EUR 35 million in extra money for nurses, for example, cannot be found in the budget. We know that there is no way to find extra money for school psychologists. But my question is health and mental health, which are very important questions. So what does a person get from this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U262	After all, the budget is going to be very much, but this whole budget is for the people of Estonia; it is not for the members of the Riigikogu. Health care and health insurance also have a pretty good amount, and the budget for next year will also increase public support. Plus, healthcare will be invested around EUR 1 billion in the coming years. Whether all these investments will be successful and by what year the last hospital will be completed (it is written that up to 2027), and whether all of this will receive EU funding, this will be clear once European Union funds are open and decisions are taken. But this budget will certainly pay the greatest attention to health care ever. But I admit to you, it's more concrete than it is for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U263	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U264	Thank you. The honourable Committee on Monetary Affairs has certainly discussed in depth what this strategic view is about budgeting, how it has happened that Estonia has fallen to the bottom of the primacy of monetary and fiscal policy. What are these considerations? Next year, the structural deficit in our budget will be the largest in Europe, plus there are several other similar indicators. What's wisdom? Is it that the structural minus is simply cultivated and comes into the sea of flowers, as the Minister of Finance said? Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U265	Thank you, Jurgen! I am pleased that you have always been actively involved in all the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Sometimes you have to be silenced in such a good way to let others ask questions. I guess it's always a double-edged sword. On the one hand, we are still today, despite the fact that the loan burden is increasing in percentage terms, the country with the lowest loan burden in Europe. On the other hand, I'm with you, Jürgen, I'm sure it's hard to see the flower sea, the light blue sky and the green lawn right now. In the coming years, we will have to tighten our belts and make certain decisions, just as the Health Insurance Fund had previously been discussed. I recall the report of the National Audit Office last week. The decisions that can be made to the people of Estonia under such a tax burden are ahead of us. At one point, you have to be honest about what's possible and what's not. But it is always a topic of debate and hindsight whether certain investments should have been made in previous years, whether it is now the right time or whether it is in five years' time to make these investments. What kind of investments someone likes less or more depends on coalition and understanding. Clearly, the corona brought difficulties to our budget, but a little before that, we could see the minus half. But if we see that all the other European countries have also increased their loan burden and are also increasing their loan burden next year, borrowing more, then we cannot be the only island in the middle of Europe that is not taking up any cents and still trying to live, because you see, your colleagues are asking for support money in the social field.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U266	Urmas Kruuse, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U267	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It has to be said that no Jüri Ratas government has had to tighten the belt, but has been a quite large-scale distribution of money. As a result, we cannot agree with the view that we are writing zeros into the budget strategy, in other words, no increase, or freeze, and then we will somehow note the politically necessary costs. In this case, it is not possible to reasonably plan the state budget over the years, which is actually worrying. Secondly, we can always argue about priorities in this Chamber, money has not disappeared from the weather to the end, but that does not mean that you can just borrow and do unreasonable things. One thing I remember about the public space is that there has been talk about the Tallinn-Tartu train connection so that the curves should be straightened so that the trains can move faster between South Estonia and Tallinn. Can you tell us which line the money is on to make sure that before the Tartu railway is electrified, the curves are also straightened so that the train can run faster?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U268	Thank you. If you look, Estonian Railway has investment money in the budget. It's not a lot of money, but there's a lot of planning money. In conjunction with the electrification project, there will also be straightening. There are certainly areas where no straightening is done, trains at full speed are not going to run on the whole railroad. There are places where it may not be reasonable to straighten out and then the train will drive a few kilometers a little slower. But there's a budget for this place, if I remember correctly, six or eight million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U269	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U270	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! In September of this year, the management board of the Estonian Salvation Zone Workers' Trade Union turned to at least two Riigikogu committees, the National Defence Committee and the Monetary Commission. Their request was to raise the monthly gross wage to the Estonian average level. Your coalition agreement makes this point very clear, that is your goal. The National Defence Committee unanimously supported the offer of rescuers and sent you a letter. I do not know whether or not you discussed this rescue proposal in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but in any case you did not propose an amendment. As a result, five members of the Riigikogu made a separate amendment and I read here that the position of the Commission is to disregard it. My question to you is why you do not want to comply with the point of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U271	Thank you. In particular, we must start by discussing the state budget submitted by the government and, on the other hand, the amendments to the state budget made by both the members of the Riigikogu and the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu. Can you tell me what the number of the proposed amendment is? If we look here, in 2020, the Government of the Republic decided not to increase wages. In addition, according to the economic forecast, wage growth has stopped all activities in 2020 and, taking into account seasonal factors, the average wage has decreased compared to the first quarter. The biggest wage change was in 2019 for rescuers when, by decision of the Government, nearly 20% of the additional money was allocated to the Salvation Board to improve wage competitiveness. By comparison, the average gross basic salary for rescuers in 2018 was EUR 810 and increased to EUR 1004 in 2019. This year, the average wage increase was 6%, which represents a gross wage of EUR 1067.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U272	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U273	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your group there is Mikhail Lotman, who spoke in his lecture on Dostoyevsky and defined money as money, it is minted freedom. Mart Laar, in his day, even wanted the budgetary balance to be incorporated into the Constitution. I do not know if you are going to put this to a referendum with these additional questions, but the current budget, which you are presenting and which you consider to be good and help us overcome the crisis, actually violates all the principles that conservative fiscal policy could include and which the conservative party, the Fatherland, has previously presented. Namely, in Estonia, the debt burden is increasing most in a competitive manner compared to other countries. Estonia is becoming Greece. Now, if you're quite honest with me, what do you think? Are you feeling a little guilty?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U274	Thank you, Annely! Interestingly, an entrepreneur who has taken out loans over the years to buy ships, though for everything else, today asks why loans are taken to make some kind of investment at the moment when we know that prices have fallen, it is useful to make investments, and many investments have not been made over the years for various reasons. One was definitely going to the euro area, before all the requirements and standards had to be met. When we arrived in the euro area, there are always conditions in place and today there are two years of relaxation in budgetary conditions. Perhaps it is time to make the investments that have not been made over the years. If you are a country with less than 10% of the loan burden and then take on 10% of the loan, it seems, of course, that the increase in the loan burden is enormous, even twice. But if you look at the average loan burden in the countries of the European Union, this number starts with 8 or 82 or 83%, so it was at the beginning of this year. I'm sure that number has risen by today. Your good colleague Urmas asked about the railroad. After all, the former leader of your own party and Prime Minister Andrus Ansip promised to build 2 + 2 roads between Tallinn and Tartu for the Mayor of Tartu immediately. If these investments had been made at the beginning of this century, then, I have said this several times here, with this money, only 10 kilometres could be built today. There are always different times and conditions and opportunities, and I do not blame any previous government or previous decisions because they were made at that point in time and with such opportunities and knowledge. It has been decided that there is an opportunity to make very important investments. If this loan is only taken for living, then I, Annely, agree with you that it is wrong, but if this loan is taken for investment, then it is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U275	Aivar Sõerd, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U276	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The budget is now presented in a new form, activity-based. We have also briefly addressed this new architecture here in the Commission between first and second readings. I'm trying to understand it, but I'm still embarrassed, and I'm asking you about it. The subject of private travel by the Minister of Education is on the agenda today. If these costs all come together, in addition to the minister's salary, the driver's salary, the bus lease, the special discount tax, the salaries of highly paid advisers, I mean, who deal with the Minister's private affairs, then we get the minister's personal expenses together, that's a considerable cost to the Ministry of Education budget. I mean, what kind of program is this? One programme could be an education and youth programme, or another programme, where it could be, is a high-efficiency country. Under which are [these costs]? The entire budget of the Ministry of Education is divided into programmes. Which program is the Minister's private expenses under?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U277	Thank you, Aivar, for a very good question. I hope that next Wednesday maybe Mailis will be here to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu. You yourself have also been Minister of Finance, and I am pleased that your party has made a draft project that was supported yesterday by the Committee on Monetary Affairs to make the state budget more transparent. We have discussed the same subject several times. There are several former leaders of local governments in this hall today. If local governments have a separate wage fund in the budget very clearly, economic costs separately and all other costs separately, the state system today is that the ministry has wages and the economy put together. We also tried to get input in September, what the economic costs are, for example, the cost of car gasoline and car leases and all the other costs you asked for, a good Aivar. We got this order of magnitude, we finally have to make a 1.7% austerity policy, that is, 10 million, and then, if we calculate it backwards, we get the economic costs together. But [the Ministry] (if the press is still telling the truth) can't be justified. There are perhaps such agreements between the Prime Minister and the Minister, and I cannot say. Anyway, the employer always agrees. The employer is of course the Riigikogu for ministries. If the Riigikogu accepts such a situation, it is a decision of the Riigikogu. In private business, it is the decision of the owner or manager how he has recruited someone and under what conditions. The right thing is what Mailis Reps said was that the special premium has been paid. But it's paid for using a car, nothing else.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U278	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U279	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will then continue the meeting of the Reform Party Group with the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The former President of Eesti Pank, Mr Ardo Hansson, who is always very conservative and modest in his statements, has actually given a very harsh assessment of today's fiscal policy: Estonians, who have long been accustomed to the state finance of their country, are shocking and disturbing. - Shocking. If credit growth can be explained by the fact that the loan burden was very low, nothing can really justify the structural deficit of the budget, which is the highest in the European Union of 6.7%, 1.8 billion. COVID is certainly not the argument either, because Estonia has done relatively well with this COVID compared to Europe. Tell me what are the three main reasons for this huge structural deficit in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U280	Thank you, Thomas, for a good question. We must remember as former colleagues. It was a little easier for us during the county government, but when you went to run the city as mayor, you had a situation where the previous authorities had borrowed pretty well. Here, this debate is always bilateral. On the one hand, wrong decisions have certainly been made at certain times. Have these decisions been made wrong in recent years, or have they been in some place in the last decade or in this century? Anyone can look at it from a different angle. The result today is that if we had been a country with an 80% loan burden before the start of this year, we would not have discussed many of these issues as we have today. Since we had a loan burden of less than 10% at the beginning of the year, this borrowing with an additional budget and also taking into account next year's budget, these figures have, of course, all turned upside down. But what we started with was the budget adopted before the Riigikogu elections. Perhaps the 2019 budget has also provided a great deal of basis for the situation we are currently in with the budget numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U281	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U282	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I'm gonna come back for the 35 million we've been asking for as extra funding to the Health Insurance Fund and pay the nurses' wages. What I'm saying is that 35 million isn't taken from the ceiling. This has actually arisen in negotiations when employees, employers and the Health Insurance Fund negotiated a collective agreement for the next two years. Raising these salaries does not depend on the agreements concluded between the health insurance fund and health care institutions, but on whether the health insurance fund can set prices for health care services, which would also include higher wage components. This is a comment, but since this has already been mentioned, I will ask a second question about the amendment concerning Tallinn Hospital. Today we have heard that the Ministry of Social Affairs has hired a project manager, Tallinn has a project manager from Tallinn Hospital, but the state budget has no cents for the Tallinn Hospital for next year. Why do you not support at least this 5 million allocation to the Tallinn Hospital?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U283	Thank you. Investments in Tallinn Hospital have been taken into account since 2022. When it comes to the issue of the Health Insurance Fund and this 35 million, everyone, good members of the Riigikogu, must be reminded that with the extra budget we gave the government reserve a pretty good amount of money. At this point, there is still more than EUR 100 million available, which can be used in connection with COVID, as well as additional support for the health insurance fund, if agreements and agreements are made for this purpose. I'm sure it's a deal with the Health Insurance Fund. On the one hand, the Health Insurance Fund must have access to funding, but it is certainly an agreement between hospitals and the Health Insurance Fund. The nurses are still paid by hospitals according to the contracts between the nurses and the hospitals.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U284	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U285	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I will continue the discussion on the previous question. My mailbox contains a letter sent on 26 October by the University of Tartu, Tallinn University and the School Psychologists Association, which has gone to the Committee on Culture, the Social Affairs Committee, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Education and Research with a request to fund the professional year. I also asked the Minister for Social Affairs if they had already met their colleague on the subject. The Minister of Social Affairs said he didn't yet, but they're planning on doing it soon. The problem has been clearly signalled. But I want to talk or ask about mental health issues. 70% of the Estonian population admits that the corona period has had a negative impact on their mental health. You say once again that there has been a lot of money in the medical field, but there is very little mental health. I am still asking: do you think it is important to support people's mental health now under the conditions of the Corona?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U286	Thank you. The answer is short: yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U287	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U288	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I must admit that I did not get a real answer to my previous question as to why no amendments from political groups or members of the Riigikogu were taken into consideration, but I am going to be more specific. I myself tabled an amendment concerning the granting by the State of a EUR 100 million loan to municipalities in order to create such a measure in order to grant a loan on favourable terms, as the State itself receives, at an interest rate of 0% or almost 0%, and to pass it on to the municipalities. This is because, during the crisis, municipal revenues have fallen and are likely to continue to fall, who will then decrease income tax revenues, which are forecast to be less than planned, but at the same time significant investments are needed. From your report, I understood that this proposal was not supported. Would you please explain what this is about, why we do not want to help the municipalities during the crisis and give additional money to the economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U289	Thank you. I must first come to this year's supplementary budget. To say that the government does not want to support the municipalities is not right. If you come to your amendment proposal, this is the other half, right, but from this year's extra budget, I would remind you that it went to 30 million roads, 70 million investments, 30 million in connection with COVID for the social sector, 5 million in scrapping aid, not to mention 72 million in support of apartment buildings via KredEx and all other subsidies. This year's budget certainly has benefited municipalities from grants that will actually actually actually realise much of the investments next year. Speaking of how 100 million loans could be granted by the government to support municipalities, when you and I talked to you, when you and I talked to you, there was talk that interest is now being charged at 1.6%, that was your sentence. [[In the hall.]] Nearly 2%. With the debate, we came to the topic of KredEx, how no loan will be granted at less than 2% interest rate in KredEx today. At the same time, it has also been made very clear that the Treasury cannot continue to lend to local authorities in a way that is more favourable than the revenue conditions, otherwise competition rules will be violated. In granting the loan, the Treasury must still base itself on the average market margin. Since the margin could not be won, it is reasonable to leave lending to the municipalities to the banks. The market failure in accessing credit is not that the central government should intervene in competition and reduce the opportunities for the private sector to provide services. I agree that if a situation arises in the private sector, as we feared in spring, that banks would simply not grant loans, then there is certainly an opportunity, if the Riigikogu decides to do so, to give this support to local governments through KredEx. At least today in the municipality where I am at the council, we asked the three banks whether there would be a problem, and I have to admit that the offer was less than 2%. There were no 1.6, even a few grams smaller than that, but of course, compared to what we asked for and what was last year, it was more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U290	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U291	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will continue on the budgetary balance. We all know more or less in this hall that people are divided into three groups: optimists, pessimists and realists. The same applies broadly to the future of the budget. I don't remember who said that, but it was said that the loans would never have to be repaid. Eesti Pank and the Fiscal Council are calling for the budget balance to be adjusted more quickly than the budget for next year would now ensure. According to Eesti Pank's new forecast, the Estonian economy could have recovered from the crisis by 2023 and it is reasonable to set the goal of bringing the revenue into line with costs. What do you think of that idea? Are you a pessimist, a realist or an optimist? I mean the idea of bankers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U292	Thank you. If you look at the monthly forecasts of Eesti Pank from March this year, I hope that I am not wrong in saying that this forecast will change every month. If today anyone knows exactly what the situation will be in February, March, April, May or June next year, I believe that this person can become one of the richest people in the world, because he will certainly make very right and only right decisions. If today, given that we have a vaccine in Estonia from January to February and the fight with this virus ends before spring, then the wishes of Eesti Pank can certainly be viewed with the same look as they have suggested that the economy will recover in 2023. As long as we do not know what Europe and the world are coming out of this crisis today to predict and say that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the economic situation in which the economy is rising and tax money is coming out much better and faster is, I think, premature, because, in fact, the impact of this year's corona crisis has not yet been felt either by the municipal budgets or by the state budget in such a way as we feared in spring. We feared that a very large proportion of the people with lower wages had become unemployed and unemployed, whether it was the tourism sector most hit or some other sector. The construction sector and the production of construction materials and possibly the sales of construction materials will certainly be at risk next year. Investment volumes in Estonia will clearly be smaller in the private sector next year than on average. I would dare say that I am certainly not a pessimist, and I think I am a realist, but today I cannot say what economic situation is next year at the same time. As an optimist, I hope that we have overcome the virus and that the economy is on the rise, and then it will be possible to reach a balance more quickly, but to write it in and say here today, with a loud voice, that it is, cannot. It still depends very much on how we deal with this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U293	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U294	Thank you. I still come back to financing health services. As far as I can tell, the application for the Health Insurance Fund was 178 million. What we see now from the state budget is 143 million, which is where there is a limp in it, and we have made a 35 million-dollar amendment to fund the nurses to cover it. But I understand that the Health Insurance Fund has been told that they also have a reserve to use. The crime is that 112 million of it actually has the funds available to the health insurance fund that could not be used during an emergency. Perhaps in essence they will receive with this budget their existing right to use money and the circa 30000 euros in addition, even a little less... I'm sorry! A little less than 30 million more. Is it sufficient and reasonable to ensure the sustainability of health care in crisis situations, health crises?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U295	I would point out that the money that has not been used by the Health Insurance Fund is, to a large extent, still earmarked for exiting the crisis with an additional budget. If it has not been needed at the moment to emerge from the crisis and it has not gone into use, of course, it will be used if necessary in the next, the next or the next month. I come back here to the fact that last week, for the first time in this hall, the National Audit Office stated clearly and boldly that we have not actually dared to say what service we can offer our people for this money. The second is whether or not the money we receive through services has been used best. And the third is that, like we're talking about nurses' wages, maybe there are some lines that are underfunded. Of course, if you ask any public authority whether it is still 10 or 20 million short, you will be sure (former Minister of Culture, I can see that noding) will immediately be said that there is just so much missing, and another just as much more would be needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U296	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U297	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! My question is about the levelling-out and support formula for local governments. Am I right to understand that compensation for the mining right will fall compared to this year? I found a coefficient like 0.847 in the formula, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U298	Thank you for a good question. I must admit that I must answer this question in writing. There was no such place in the budget during the negotiations. Maybe there's some other way to compensate. It may be that the side of environmental charges is also compensated for by the municipalities on the other hand, maybe one line has been raised to another. But if you don't mind, I'll take a look at it and answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U299	Annely Akkermann.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U300	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, You hinted that I, as a former entrepreneur, should not be afraid to borrow, and in your reply to my colleague Toomas Kivimägi, you also referred to the city of Pärnu. My profession is really financial management, and in my 28-year career, I've still taken huge loans. I have no fear of taking an investment loan. However, in the current budget, I cannot accept borrowing to cover fixed costs, because of the 2 billion which will be borrowed, the total budget is about 1 billion (I found it in search) covered by investments. This billion is mostly linked to European Union money. And only 300 million out of this 2 billion, with concessions, is to overcome the corona crisis. I'm guessing about a billion is still a loan covering fixed costs. This cannot be accepted. The city of Pärnu was exactly the same as the previous crisis in 2008. The city of Pärnu did not adjust its fixed costs, the money was completely out by the end of 2009 and then it had to be laid off, cut down, turn off the lamps. Why are you doing this to the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U301	It would be good if I could decide on my own what could be done in an Estonian country with 13 billion. Thank God that such a decision has never been given to one person in Estonia; it is still a decision of 101 people in this large hall. The volume of investment has been read slightly differently in different readings and discussions. I count 1.4 billion from there, and 600 million really is the kind of money you can argue about whether it's a current cost or not. In any case, at the end of the debate on this budget, there was an agreement that there should be a cut-off plan for next year's RES debate and that the budget for 2022 should take account of the fact that the structural budget balance should return everywhere as a matter of urgency. Whatever year it arrives exactly, it still reveals the economic situation in Estonia in the following year and in the following years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U302	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U303	Thank you, Mr President. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Doesn't squeezing to cover fixed costs and an enormous increase in the loan burden worry you? What will be our Estonia's future, and do you not think that we will enslave ourselves if we take so much of the loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U304	Thank you, Kristina, for a very good question. No, I'm not afraid we're gonna enslave ourselves. We are still the country with the lowest loan burden in Europe. Are all the decisions that are in this budget and the credit issues justified and going well? There was a question here today about the activities and costs of some ministers. Certainly, the budget is not 100 per cent transparent and it is impossible to foresee all the costs, no matter who prepares and works through the budget, behind each line every euro he cannot mention. I am not afraid that today the debt burden will be such that tomorrow we will be bankrupt and the state will no longer be able to exist. Somehow, all countries with more than three times the loan burden have survived and have been managed. Of course, if someone asks me, I think the loan should only be taken for investments and precisely for investments that will save money in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U305	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U306	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In your presentation, you noted that the transition to education in Estonian must take place gradually and that 8 million Estonian-language students are provided for in the state budget to support the acquisition of Estonian language. We know that the transition so far has been going on for 30 years. The Reform Party stands for a common Estonian-language education system from early childhood education. This is a clear objective with specific deadlines and society is ready to do so. The question concerns the other side of the problem. Estonian schools are also in need of support, where young people with other native languages go to study. The corresponding memo was sent to us last autumn by Estonian-language schools in Ida-Virumaa. The Reform Party Group has proposed an amendment to this effect in order to allocate EUR 1.5 million from the budget. What was the Commission's debate and will you support this amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U307	Can you tell me what the number proposed was? [[S. Stone explains the floor.]] Was it 5 million? Was that your proposal? [[S. Stone explains the floor.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U308	Maybe it's number 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U309	Yeah, that's number 13, right. The transition to a single Estonian-language education must take place gradually, with a total of 8 million euros planned to support students with a different native language from the Estonian language in their acquisition of the Estonian language. Of this, 3 million are intended for pre-school children's institutions in order to bring further education in Estonian to more groups of children with other mother tongues, which also supports a smooth transition to Estonian-language education. In this academic year, the programme will extend to 50 additional Russian language kindergarten groups in Tallinn, Ida-Virumaa, Maardus, Tartu and Mustvee. The programme can support 153 additional teachers in Estonian in kindergartens. The programme that reached the primary classes of this year will continue in the new year in Tallinn, Ida-Virumaa and Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U310	Toomas Kivimägi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U311	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have repeatedly stressed the importance of infrastructure investments and I hope you have also thought about 2 + 2 roads in Via Baltica. However, only EUR 3 million is reflected in the budget against me. Is that all the generosity and priority shown by the government, or is there somewhere else hidden some money for Via Baltica? In this context, when you talk about how well and cheaply the state can borrow, do you think it is reasonable that, for example, there is a Nurme-Flying road section on the table as a PPP project, which in the end will certainly cost the state considerably more than its funding from the state budget? Is this reasonable under favourable lending conditions? And the last issue that is very closely linked to this subject. A year ago, a man named Aivar Kokk in the same position on this very board promised that if he was the chairman of the Monetary Commission in a year's time, the state budget would be much more transparent and readable. I asked a colleague who's up to date, he said it's gotten worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U312	Thank you. I don't know if it's gotten any worse, but there's been a lot more pages than a year ago. Is everything the way we've wanted it to be? Absolutely not. Disputes and negotiations with the Ministry of Finance have been going on for a long time. I believe that thanks to the fact that a draft has come from your party, which will be discussed next week in this Chamber, the Ministry of Finance will also move towards a clearer and more transparent budget. Well, there are different concepts. The one sitting in this house, not in this house, but in another house, would like to have even fewer lines. We, of course, want the lines to be more unwritten so that at least the majority of the members of the Riigikogu can understand it. But when it comes to investments in 2 + 2 roads, yes, this coalition has a clear vision. I drive several times every week along these 2 + 1 sections, where I usually drive 80, even though I could drive 110, but some cars drive ahead and there's no pass-by. I think they're a lot more dangerous than the usual 1 + 1 route. There are nearly 20 million design tools. The problem has been that the Road Administration may not have been able to give them the right, the opportunity and the resources to prepare so many road construction projects. For the next year, there have been instruments for designing and a further 5 million have been added to conventional design in the budget, with higher amounts. Designers have said that there are not many designers in Estonia who can design 2 + 2 roads, so the cost of design goes higher. I hope that next year, while we are discussing here, construction projects will be ready and construction can begin to count on the state budget and the procurement of construction.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U313	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U314	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question continues to be about funding for local governments and local roads. The draft budget contains one line of case-by-case [grants], with 20 million funding. One amendment was also to share this money equally among all the municipalities so that the municipalities could decide for themselves. At the moment, it seems that this 20 million is not really a matter for local governments. What was the Commission's position on why couldn't equally be divided between local governments on the basis of the formula?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U315	Thank you. The wishes of case-by-case road investments were asked by the Cities and Municipalities Association of all municipalities. They were forwarded to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has also sent this list to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There was just over EUR 10 million covered by investments out of 20 million. These discussions will take place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs between second and third readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U316	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U317	Thank you. It is quite interesting that you stress that even after the quadruple increase in the debt burden of the Estonian state, we are still the country with the lowest loan burden in Europe. But the service of the current government is not even for the big deal, because we are also now the country with the biggest deficit across Europe. You will also plan this for the next few years when economic indicators are projected to grow. Let's see where this extra loan burden goes. You say it should only be for investment. However, there is less than a billion investments in the budget, about as much as in previous years, there is no big difference, but the debt burden is immediately several billion, and the same way in the coming years. In fact, this loan will go into running costs, which will run from year to year, and which, even after the current government has long gone, will continue to cause this minus. Why are you doing this? Didn't you really get any closer to balance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U318	Thank you. That's a good question. You came a little later, half your party members' questions you haven't heard. But I guess in all political parties, you go with the perceptions of investment and everything else in two pages. One side looks at the person and the social sector where money is needed to support it. We have just talked for a long time about the benefit of the Health Insurance Fund and the 35 million that go there, now over 100 million on the side of the allowance. This is the kind of place where decisions must be made in a crisis situation. Whether these decisions are right or not, the future will show this. Yes, I agree with you that since the budget is not yet as transparent as we would like, we do not always see where something is hidden. We have asked here and tried to get as much clarity as possible in the lines of this budget. I'm sure there are places where you can save. I would like to remind you once again that, before the budget was transferred, there was an agreement that, in April next year, the RES debate would also have to include austerity lanes where savings would be made in each subsequent year. The costs of governance cannot grow at the rate they have grown.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U319	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U320	Thank you. Dear waitress, My question relates to one of your answers. This concerns tax exemptions for foresters and farmers. When this spring change was adopted to give foresters a EUR 5 000 tax exemption, I was very pleased that the Social Democratic Party's election promise was fulfilled. It is now that we also tabled this draft in the summer, which concerns the income tax exemption for farmers at EUR 5 000, which has so far stood. I understand that it is not intended to be included in the budget that we are dealing with today. But now your answer was to the question that you are about to submit your proposal for income tax exemption for farmers. At the same time, this proposal has been in the Committee on Monetary Affairs for a long time, four months. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U321	Thank you. That's right, you made a very good suggestion. As you can see, this has no direct impact on the budget for 2021, as the income tax refund takes place on the basis of income tax returns in spring 2022. Just because this draft is in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will pick it up and try to get to this hall with this decision, so that next year it will be off the table. Is one to one the way you've presented it? You had two lines there, if I remember correctly. We had discussions in the Commission in preparation for the first reading, and the various political parties, opposition and coalition politicians had the opinion that this debate would come on the table so that this law would come into force next year. That was the message I was trying to tell you: it has not gone away, the decision that farmers who are self-employed would have the same conditions as foresters.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U322	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U323	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I agree with my colleagues: the fact that Estonia's loan burden is wrought up is perhaps similar to the situation of only a few countries in this century, which has been in a serious financial crisis, and it is certainly rather unusual given Estonia's current financial logic. But I would like to ask you about another matter that the head of government, Jüri Ratas, a person you know, called as a priority, saying that this budget will finally break the backbone of the corona, and saying that Tallinn Hospital is the biggest investment of the following year. I looked, "Oh, trouble, no cent, no euro, no euro." We're here to help. We've proposed that 5 million be set up to prepare it. I think you agree with me that the time for using euro money is pretty limited. This means that action should be taken today. Do you agree with me that this proposal is very necessary and hope that it will work?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U324	Thank you. As you also know as a member of the Tallinn City Council, the Tallinn Hospital will correct if I am wrong to be in Tallinn at the moment. You're not? The aid is planned by the State for the investment from 2022, a financial contribution. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the City Government of Tallinn start preliminary work from their own resources. For that, they have not asked for additional resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U325	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U326	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You have referred to the National Audit Office's review in your replies several times, which Janar Holm introduced here last Wednesday. We also recently listened to the Prime Minister in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on the subject of "Estonia 2035." My question to you is: how well do you think this budget for next year, which we are discussing here, will take into account the major strategic challenges facing Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U327	Thank you. I'm sure it's the start of the budget. Are all the lines you need here? Certainly, since we are talking today about the fact that the loan cannot be taken indefinitely and the debt burden cannot go to the ceiling, these decisions also had to take account of today's budget and budgetary discipline. At one point it will be possible to rebalance the budget. I think that next year's budget may be different from the previous one, that there are quite a lot of resources here to prepare for design and investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U328	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U329	Thank you. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs! Of course, we can also take the view that children are our future and that all spending on children also comes under investment. But as head of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you probably know that investments are still a very clear concept in the context of the state budget. As Aivar Sõerd said earlier, this concept is equivalent to less than a billion, or several times less, in the budget if the debt burden increases. But I compared Ratas and Helme's speeches in previous readings of the budget with the reality of the budget and looked at where these investments should go. The bike was talking about Tallinn Hospital. As my colleague Kristen Michal has just said, the budget for Tallinn Hospital is exactly 0 euros. The bike and Helme both talked about ambulance helicopters. I'll check it out again, zero euros. The third biggest investment, which is the top priority of the Ratas government since 2016 - congratulations, the fifth birthday is already on this priority! So it's going to be 0 for that, too. Am I wrong, or did they tell us about some other budget? If I'm wrong, please point out the line where these investments are recorded in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U330	Thank you. No, you're not wrong. If you look at the budget that we currently have on the table, there really hasn't been a single euro written on these lines for next year. Are there numbers written behind objects in this budget that comes to the third reading? Hardly, however, it contains possible funds from the European Union and the objects on which the money is calculated, which year and how much. But today, when you ask me, it is right that, for example, the Tallinn Hospital has not been included in the European Union funds for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U331	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U332	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I'm going to specify my last question. The point of the question was on Amendment 13: 1.5 million to our Reform Party Group. The explanation is here, and I read it: "It is necessary to train teachers, prepare educational materials and inform the parties in order to move to a single Estonian education. The amendment provides the means to implement the Riigikogu decision in 2021. In addition, there is a desire to further support the organisation of study support for Estonian-language children in the Estonian-language school. " What was the Commission's debate and will you support this amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U333	Thank you. I have just answered the previous question: what was the debate and what was the answer? The Government of the Republic did not agree to finance this proposal from the reserve without any special purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U334	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U335	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I understand that the draft budget is well-stricken and unbalanced and that there are relatively few investments there. However, I am asking about investment precisely because of the corona epidemic. How much investment is foreseen in the budget in this regard? For example, in order for us to be able to keep society in operation without locking it up, a very good ventilation of public spaces is very important alongside keeping masks and distance. According to current information, ventilation in schools and nursing homes is not good enough. For example, how much investment is there to cope with this corona epidemic?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U336	When we're talking about ventilation, it's clear that inciting space is one of the ways to prevent a corona crisis. But if we look at today's systems, how the ventilation systems are made, then usually the ventilation systems in all the rooms end up in the same place, they try to take the heat out and reroute it. According to my knowledge, the major epidemics that occurred on cruise ships occurred precisely because the ventilation systems were uniform. Now, in many hospitals, all the rooms of certain departments have been taken in and out on their own in order not to spread the virus through moisture. There is moisture in the air, and it is definitely needed by bacteria and viruses. There are now a large number of hospitals where investments are increasingly being made in order to bring them to a better position, to renew and to renovate them. The next year, 143.4 million are planned for operating grants for the Health Insurance Fund. In 2022, EU funds are expected to increase the investment volume of six hospitals.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U337	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U338	Thank you. Continuing our previous debate: it is still structural problems that are looking at us from this budget. Listening here to different answers and questions, it is also clear that this 2 billion, which is a deficit, and only a billion investments, is in fact an unprecedented mess that is being rolled together for future generations. If we want to make life budgets for future governments even a little worth living, then it is clear that there is still a very bad situation. Actually, I wanted to ask you a sportsman's question because you didn't answer a lot about what it was like. What is it like to put forward, as chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, a budget that is not only down to 2 billion but also in no way responds to the earlier statements by the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance about priorities, investments and everything else? A good classic sportsman's question: how do you feel in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U339	Thank you. As a volleyball man, you know very well that volleyball isn't played for just one minute, but you need to win five games, or you have to win three out of five, but you often need to play five games in equal game to get three points. There is one thing about this budget that we may have missed or omitted. After all, the Estonian budget has been the face of the European Union's support instruments for the last 15 years. Every time one period ends and the other has not started, the place is that it is necessary to make a lot of investments, which are usually planned to be made from European Union funds, but these funds are not yet open and previous investments are either finished or closing. I'm sure it's one year, sometimes two years more complicated. Of course, as an entrepreneur, I would like to speak much more in front of this, if the volume of investment was still at the end of a million. I was also one of those in the negotiations who tried hard to push this side to increase the share of investment. At the same time, I also saw that there was no willingness to invest in many things that I wanted and where I might need to invest in the Estonian country, because there were not just construction projects. As a result of these negotiations, there will be resources here for next year to prepare major projects, which can then start in 2022 or 2023.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U340	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U341	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The National Audit Office has spoken very much about the shortage of teachers, family doctors, rescuers and police. Yesterday, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we listened to an overview of the future of Estonian health care. In the annex to this budget, we find § 9 "The budgetary position of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund" where the result of the main activity is starting to decrease, but the Development Monitoring Centre has also pointed out that the health insurance fund is in a very large deficit. We do not find anything in this budget concerning the relief of the nursing home, the topic of carers, the salaries of nurses, the salaries of teachers. Maybe I just walked from the office to the hall when you said that. There are 44 amendments. How many were taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U342	One. But the planned supplement to the Health Insurance Fund is 143.4 million next year, 142 million in 2022, 131 million in 2023. So the sickness fund has additional resources in the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U343	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U344	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We will continue on the topic of Tallinn Hospital. I am pleased that you have now made it quite clear to everyone that in 2021 there will be no cent in the budget and no euro for the Tallinn Hospital. And the hope of external resources for the planning that was promised, 30 million and everything else, is really just hope. Now I have a question: if this is what it is, wouldn't it be wise to allocate money from the budget so that the city of Tallinn or whoever is preparing it can start carrying out preparatory activities? They're already doing something there. If European funds are opened up and such an opportunity really opens up for a major project, in this small time, it will all succeed. This is certainly an important investment for Estonia. What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U345	Thank you for a good question. As I answered your question before, it is on the balance sheet of the city of Tallinn, and on the other hand it has been agreed that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the City of Tallinn have jointly found a way to start preparing with their own resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U346	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U347	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Kristen Michal and Taavi Rõivas asked about major investments in the state budget for 2021, which the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance held in Tallinn Hospital and rescue helicopters during the transfer and introduction of the budget. However, it turns out from your answers that there are large zeros on these lines in the budget. How can that be? Because of your answers, they are not in the budget. Can't we believe and trust the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U348	Thank you for a good question. I also said at the end of the sentence that there are zeros in the budget currently on the table; between second and third readings, investments planned from the European Union will also come here. How they come, what line, how many of them come, we will see in the Commission during the budget discussions and when we get to this big hall for the third reading. Today, the European Union's funds for the next period have not been put into this budget. If forecasted, it is likely to be possible to start using EU funds in the autumn period 2021, next year, but this is a good thing. 2022 is much more real. These discussions will take place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs between second and third readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U349	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U350	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I'll come back to that ventilation thing. I can't really agree with you. I read that physicists at the University of Tartu have tested the protective masks and their ability to keep the virus away. It has been found that only a small number of reusable masks protect against viruses. More important is the cooperation between masks and ventilation, i.e. indoors it is necessary to ensure a very good air exchange. That's the question I asked you last time. But now I'm still asking about the preparation for an epidemic. How much is it planned next year to inform people about the need to wear a mask and the dangers associated with the corona, i.e. how can we keep society, in a word, freer if we individually approach it better?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U351	Thank you for a good question. The mask I have in front of me as long as I leave this remote control again is the most secure and manufactured mask in Estonia. I've already suggested to a colleague. It's made in Tartu. The University of Tartu did just this study, which was published a few days ago. According to this study, its protective effect is almost 100%, 90% with kope. I don't remember exactly that percentage, 90% comma nothing. This information is also common in the press and the manufacturer has a queue at the door. Another great manufacturer is Softcom, whose masks I've seen in this room. But there is certainly one important thing about reuse masks: they must still be kept at least in hot steam for 5 to 10 minutes, even better to wash. Just putting on a mask every day doesn't make you feel safe. I'm sure I agree with you a hundred percent about what you read, that space needs to be encouraged, because then the concentration of the virus can't stay high. All the ventilation systems built in the last century will certainly work very well in preventing the virus, because nothing will come back from there. Everything they take is taken away, and cold air is taken from the outside. But the ventilation systems of this century are built with a heat exchanger. If the heat exchanger has not been skipped into the system that viruses... I hope all hospitals put this system between them. Even in this house, the ventilation in this hall isn't what it's supposed to be. That's a legitimate and right question for you, ventilation should work well. There's a rumor of drooping around here, but if all 101 members are in the hall, the air isn't the freshest. Yeah, the right thing to do is get on that road with ventilation, especially in places where more people are gathering. But there's another side: those who work on the ventilation systems have to make sure that the heat exchanger doesn't bring that virus back upside down. I am not a specialist in this field, but there are a lot of strong personalities and entrepreneurs in this field in Estonia; they certainly can follow it. I know a number of hospital departments have already moved to a new ventilation system this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U352	Indrek Saar.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U353	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Today, and not only today, we have talked long and hard about the reimbursement of sick days. As sad as it may seem, there is no result, although the government claims that they have been working on it for months. But even if this option is implemented, as the government has said, that perhaps they will come to an agreement by 1 January, then it will probably want some funding from next year's budget. At present, the budget does not appear to have any additional resources planned, nor did the Socialist amendment in the Commission appear to have been supported. Are there plans to put all this additional compensation for sick days on the employers' side, or how should this be resolved in the future in a budgetary way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U354	Thank you for a good question. Starting from the rear: there has certainly not been a plan to put the costs of reimbursement of sick days on the operators' account. We still have more than EUR 100 million from the government reserve with this year's additional budget and, if necessary, it can be covered from these funds. Today is the argument that your party has offered it on the first day, a large part of this room has said that since the second day. I'm sure there's at least two days to make up for it. If this is a shorter illness, the cost shall be borne by the undertaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U355	Indrek Saar, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U356	Yes, very sympathetic when you said that there were more than 100 million euros in the reserve that could be spent on sick days. Can you explain to me, then, that if we are in the middle of a second wave of viruses and the number of infected is higher than ever, we have nearly 100 people in the hospital, and the Health Board has been pointing out for a long time that, above all, the problem is that there is an infection at the workplace, or workplace sites, why couldn't we have used this reserve some time ago or at least from today or tomorrow or now to compensate for further sick days? After all, it is not a question of someone demanding that it should necessarily only be from the first day. It is important that people do not lose very much in their incomes and do not have to go to work with disease symptoms.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U357	Thank you. As the spring was able to make a quick decision in emergency situations, and three months, if I remember correctly, it was three months, it was possible to take a sick list without having to go straight to the family doctor, so it is today too: if illness increases and the situation becomes critical, then it is certainly possible to make this decision quickly. I agree with you that during a certain period of time, if the situation so requires, the sick leaves could be compensated for - this is my personal opinion of the second day. I remember in the spring, when this decision was made, in the first two days, the sick list was largely taken by staff serving. But I understand them, there was a crisis, it was dangerous, and there were no security systems, there were no screens, nothing in shops or pharmacies. Today, these solutions are in place. As far as I have been involved in these negotiations, I can say that the government is prepared to make this decision quickly if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U358	Helmen Hunter, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U359	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You, Tõnis Mölder and the Prime Minister are all talking about what happened in the spring. We've reached autumn, if you don't know yet, and winter is about to come. The incidence rate is now much higher than in spring. Indeed, the Health Board has reported that the spread is no longer just in work groups, but it has called the areas of Tallinn and Harju a focal point of distribution. What was done in the spring is to recognise the government, the wage subsidy and what was about the compensation of sick days was very nice. When will you get to autumn and winter now? Don't tell me that what was done in spring was good and right. We agree. But what happens next?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U360	Thank you, Helmen! I must have misspelled it somehow. I didn't mean to say it was done in spring and now it shouldn't be done. Every week for two days, the government sits with the Coronal Commission for long hours. They have been given the mandate that, on the day that this need has been stated in the Commission, this decision will certainly not be taken, no one from politicians will be able to make any obstacle to it. But it is not meant to be for years, but for a certain period this decision must be made if this is the case, but it is said by specialists. I am certainly not the spokesperson in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U361	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. We're gonna start negotiations. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U362	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Let someone else talk about the cost. For me, the costs are just one menu and whether the menu is available to us in the future still depends on whether we have the means to cover it. The only important thing in the budget is whether revenue and expenditure are consistent with each other and whether they are in line with the economic situation. This year, next year, they were far from there last year, and they were not. I was able to manage finances, public finances on the side of fiscal and fiscal policy, at times when we counted finance in order as a matter of honour for Estonia, a national pride that placed us among the countries far from the east. I was able to go as a minister and show the charts where, thanks to this attitude, our debt was the lowest in Europe and our budget balance, i.e. the source of the debt, if not the best in Europe, was one of the three best. In doing so, we could always show that our social situation was improving very quickly and that we were able to allocate 2% to defence costs. They said that, in the field of education and investment, we were once again the top of Europe. I mean, the problem with the budget is not that we were somehow narrow. We just made wise choices. What does this budget indicate? Three things, mostly. Not what's being read from this remote control now, and what's being screamed out of the paper in the speeches. It is not these costs that are important, but that we have fallen from among the best in Europe to the last, we are the only country with structural minus growth next year. Our structural minus budget is Europe's largest and we have the fastest increase in debt. This is clearly the worst budgetary situation that can be. This is the budgetary situation, it is not a question of history, it is precisely the budget. It is particularly bad, however, that the Prime Minister ( yesterday he went to the Commission), the Minister for Finance and also the chairman of the committee are going to say that, oh, this is about some difficult times, and that is all that follows. It doesn't. This Prime Minister tore the structural minus during the economic boom in exactly the same way. Last year it was 2.3%, which violates all kinds of rules. There's always a budget deficit, and there's always a worse reality. This reality is even worse than we ever imagined. We are the worst in Europe. Nevertheless, it is commended that this is a horrible budget, and the Trinity is again going to give a press conference. Among them is the Fatherland, which, as before, has wanted this matter to be written into the Constitution, that we are financially responsible. From the structural minus, darlings, doesn't grow up, it's a bluff. The structural minus is that the situation of the economy has already been taken into account, but we are still beyond the economic situation. This does not mean the nominal balance of the budget, it means living beyond our means. 6,6% and 6,7% minus, it's actually awful, and it determines the success of our finances in advance for a very long time. Secondly, the story that we have a number of things here and several runs out and the loan burden is low, etc. This is history, the debt burden is the responsibility of previous governments, in fact, of the previous governments, not the previous government. It does not describe in any way how we can spend next year. Next year, we must spend in such a way that we do not harm finances and the economy, but this budget clearly damages finances and the economy. It's not like the more the state spends... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U363	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U364	Thank you. ... the prouder and the nicer, the better life gets. It's not like that. State interference in the economy is debatable at all. But also macro-economically, Keynes didn't make it all the time. The structural balance is what your friend Keynes meant. In good times, savings are made, in bad times, in structural balance works. You have greatly amplified, you are pouring gas on the economic cycle, making it worse in good times and going deeper into the minus, if you don't mind, at a time when the economy is getting better. The economy will definitely recover next year, compared to the hard times of this year. This is your own forecast, this is the basis of your own budget. This over 6% minus shows you're a completely irresponsible coalition. Living beyond power harms the economy, remember, it creates unfair competition in the economy by the state, it creates a loss of competitiveness, it takes away the workforce, it takes away investments and resources in general. Don't tell me it's a countercyclical policy. This is absolutely ridiculous. The Prime Minister has learned that word. Yesterday he used it again, so we're going to design next year, it's now a countercyclical policy. This budget on this whole thing doesn't actually meet these goals when they say that we kill the corona, that it's the corona's winning budget. It is not macroeconomicly killing the corona, nor is it medically. About 20 million goes from the budget to medicine, and nothing goes from here to smooth the economic cycle, it's mistimed, it's misdirected. In my opinion, there is only one important, really important amendment here, it is (it is textual, we have tabled it) that the budget must be brought to a structural balance by 2023. The same has been said by Eesti Pank and the same has been said by the Fiscal Council. Please take this amendment into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U365	Kalle Laane, please! A procedural question, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U366	Thank you. Isn't there a second reading before the political groups and after...?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U367	No, it's not. Everyone is right... (J.Almost: "I am a group. ") And you're a group too. All members of the Riigikogu have equal rights at second reading. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U368	Three minutes more time, please, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U369	Eight minutes to Kalle Laanet.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U370	When you noticed, Mr. Sester, I let Mr. Ligi in the front. Ladies and gentlemen, As long as I have been here in the Riigikogu, I have been standing for internal security and internal security, as well as for this state budget procedure. The Estonian Salvation Area Workers' Trade Union called on the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu and the Monetary Committee of the Riigikogu to ensure that politicians can sometimes keep their promises. Some politicians may even like this idea in their originality. The concern itself, of course, is not at all original: small and frozen salaries for years. Doctors are somewhat quieter, teachers' salaries and working conditions are spoken daily and no longer as tragic as they were years ago. This does not mean, unfortunately, that there is plenty of funding for health care and education, but at least things are moving, gradually. What about the rescuers and the promises? The faces of the rescuers were laughed at the time of the government last spring, as the basic principles of the government union concluded by the Estonian Central Party, the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Isamaa Party for the years 2019 to 2023 promised an increase in the wages of the rescuers. The years of injustice that has been done by the lowest-paid workers in the field of internal security by the rescuers have been forgotten. Hopefully rescued, degenerated, helped people in distress, organised local government crisis activities, taught to hide, and, more importantly, prevented and trained to prevent accidents with fresh zeal. It was then considered from the draft budget given by the Government to the Riigikogu that there would be no long-awaited wage increase. It's going to be delayed to indeterminate. Did the rescuers hang their gloves and go home? No, they conscientiously continue their work, although there is a danger that soon they will have to hang their teeth. So I wrote my opinion story in the Voice of the Islands. Yes, together with the members of the Riigikogu, Hanno Pevkur, Madis Milling, Ants Laaneots and Johannes Kerd, I proposed that the state budget covering 2021 would have 16.7 million extra euros for the rescuers so that they would receive at least the average salary in Estonia. We will see what the result of this vote will be. But not only did I want to talk about it. In fact, we made more proposals. These really concern the security of the Estonian state: EUR 10 million for coastal defence and EUR 20 million for midland anti-aircraft. These amendments are certainly extremely important for the security and security of Estonia. So, above all, there is a view of coalition politicians. Hopefully, even if they do not support these suggestions by pressing the button, perhaps in their minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U371	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U372	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the European Commission published the economic policy package and has an overview of the budgetary plans of the Member States. Estonia stands out for a number of important public finances and has fallen into the worst group of countries. We have not reached this situation with just this year's budget, we have to go back a few years. Last week there was a debate on last year's annual report. Let me remind you that last year's budget was presented by the Minister of Finance of the Fatherland, who spoke here about the same rosémann nonsense as we are hearing today. It was then said that the budget had to be in surplus. Now it is said that we are moving towards a surplus and that someday in the future we will perhaps also start cutting costs. We heard a similar fairy tale here at the end of 2018. And what was the reality? Instead of reducing the structural deficit, the structural deficit increased. But last year was still a very nice time compared to today: the economy grew by 4%, the budget was calculated at 2%. But even then, this was the way in which a loan was made to cover current expenses. The loan burden increased by 186 million euros last year. Why am I saying this? The thing is, they're saying that now, you see, it's a time of crisis, and everybody's taking out a loan. But 2019 was still a pretty good time, and so many Member States used it to strengthen the budget. Many were in surplus with the budget; Estonia was moving towards the deficit. Now this deficit is increasing significantly, and we have reached the worst countries with the most important fiscal indicators or with the lowest figures on the state budget. Go on, now we come to this budget. There is, as I said, a lot of the fairy tale element that the Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee spoke about. First of all, the number of investments is EUR 1.9 billion. No, the state budget has investments of EUR 963 million. This misleading attempt was made to justify the increase in loan liabilities of 2.3 billion in the following year. At the same time, the actual amount of investments includes half of the euro payments. Half a billion euros in investment from domestic money is something that can also be financed from regular revenues. By the way, revenue will increase by 5% next year, i.e. by over half a billion euros. But what do we get with this loan? There is talk of all kinds of hospitals and helicopters in Tallinn and four-line roads that are not included in the budget. But what's in the budget, and what do we get out of this loan? Well, in the case of new roads, 3 million Via Baltica short section extensions and 10 million goes to the Kardla-Kärevere section. All major projects are those which are currently on the agenda and which are largely funded by European Union money. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U373	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U374	Okay. Crossroads, Crossroads, Crossroads. These are all existing projects, not to mention Rail Baltic, where there is, after all, money for the European Union budget. So, in this situation, where the loan money goes mainly to the running costs of the budget, it is still impertinent to add here too, I think that it is not an exaggeration of the roofing money paid with the loan money. This, of course, must also be said that the service of the current government is not that Estonia has historically low indebtedness. Looking at this freshly, today's European Commission material, the budgetary deficits of the Member States will be reduced without exception next year. Estonia is the only one with an increasing budget deficit. Estonia will reach the level of the deficit in France and Italy next year. The Greek budget deficit, for example, will decrease significantly more. The average debt burden will also decrease next year, Latvia will decrease, Italy will decrease, Greece will decrease. So this is a serious rethinking place. Finally, I am simply saying that in a few years' time when we are going to process the report on the implementation of the 2021 budget, we will see that the stories that are now being said are the kind of pink mannequin that should not be taken seriously. We can see that today's coalition's budget and the actual state of the budget are like two different worlds. I can predict that there must be the knowledge that investments practically did not increase or increased slightly with the support of euro money, and the loan money went mainly to cover the fixed costs of the budget. We can hear this and see it in the budget implementation report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U375	Liina Kersna, please! Eight minutes for Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U376	Ladies and gentlemen, We have a lot of important issues ahead of us, especially when dealing with the state budget. These are issues that really affect and change people's lives. But we also occasionally have questions about life and death before us. With one of these things, I'd like to address you. As you know, we are in the middle of a month of children's rights. How, then, do we guarantee the rights of the child, such as the child's right to life and health? The prevalence of mental disorders among minors is estimated at 12 to 20%. This means that we may have a young person aged 1200015 to 19 who has a mental health problem that is diagnosable and needs treatment. By the way, the report by the recently published Monitoring Centre for Development says that international estimates suggest that at least any other person in need of mental health care will be left in Estonia without treatment. Practitioners, psychologists, psychiatrists, family doctors, mental health nurses, as well as research say that the coronation period has influenced and will certainly have an impact on people's mental health, including the mental health of children and young people. We know that when a parent is stressed, a child is likely to be stressed. According to a survey carried out in Estonia, 69% of the population, including 14% to a large extent and 7% to a very large extent, have experienced stress in the last 30 days. Young people are the most vulnerable to stress. For example, 40% of young Estonians aged 15 to 25 found that their stress and stress levels are higher than in recent months. Ladies and gentlemen, Children who have taken their own lives this year are three to four times more than in previous years, including children aged 12, 13, 14 and 15. According to historical statistics, we actually know that among the welfare countries, the number of children and young people in Estonia is at the forefront of suicide. Even before the time of COVID, we knew that 33% of young people aged 15 or 14 to 15 had deliberately injured themselves. More than half of 15-year-old girls have experienced symptoms of depression. If these numbers don't get us legislators to act, what's going to do? A school psychologist is an essential first-level specialist for children's mental health in order to prevent future more serious problems. According to the law, if necessary, the student must be provided with free psychological services in both general and vocational schools. According to the latest data, 36% of schools worked as a school psychologist. In addition, if the school psychologists' association says it would be good if there were 200 to 300 children for one school psychologist, then there are over 800 children in reality for one school psychologist. This means that most children will not have access to free psychological services if necessary. What can we legislators do? The preparation of a school psychologist should last a total of six years: three years of undergraduate studies, two years of master's degree and one year of supervised internship, or professional year. In order to ensure a high-quality teaching of practical subjects during the professional year, the remuneration of supervisors and the remuneration of participants in the professional year for 10 participants, the estimated cost is EUR 225000. This country is not funded. But it should, because we have too few school psychologists. By the way, we need 140 full-time school psychologists. Today, the Riigikogu procedure received a draft public survey on marriage, which is estimated at 2 million euros. In addition, the Minister of Population plans to campaign to value family values for half a million euros. With this money, 112 school psychologists could be trained. Campaigns can and must be carried out sometimes. You can also do public polls, but I don't think we're gonna have to deal with life and death in this room. Neither the planned public survey nor the campaign on family values is a matter of life or death. It is a matter of political choice. Whether a child or young person gets help at the right time may actually be a matter of life and death, of the child's life and death. The Ministry of Social Affairs asked for an additional EUR 5 million for mental health issues, received a million, and this million million goes to finance the professional year of clinical psychologists. Finally, that is really good news. Last year, the members of the coalition did not support our proposal on the same subject. The remaining 600,000 are intended for an extraordinary one-off injection of money. This year, I will be with my colleagues in front of you with three amendments that support children's mental health: funding for the school psychologists' professional year, allocating extra money to the children's helpline, because the number of visitors has multiplied, and opening up child home services for sexually abused children in West Estonia. In total, less than EUR 600000. But money would certainly also need systemic suicide prevention, treatment homes for young people and many other important mental health services. Mental health issues, good friends, are life and death issues. It is our duty, as is the responsibility of the adult people, and also of the legislators, to ensure that the life and health of every child is preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U377	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U378	Thank you, good manager. A good colleague, Liina Kersna, has just talked emotionally and passionally about real problems. Real problems that require a few hundred thousand or a few millions to solve. And here we are. By the end of next year, Estonia's public debt will exceed 6.6 billion. In other words, the state will borrow EUR 5100 per capita by the end of the coming year on behalf of us taxpayers. If the government can continue with tomorrow's-no-come-financial policy, the debt on behalf of the state will increase to EUR 8000 per resident of Estonia in four years, from infant to raugan. What's in it for us? It's a legitimate question. Is it investments that make money back, or is it an increased cost and aim for a drifting country? The Estonian population is ageing, that is a fact. Yes, thousands of people have lost their jobs in the corona crisis, but the biggest problem in Estonia is the shortage of labour. The Health Insurance Fund will produce minus 500 million in the next four years. The problem is known, but you don't dare talk about the solution. The pension fund deficit is also increasing, due to demography. The message is simple: the younger a person, the more your well-being in old age depends on saving and investing yourself during your active working life. A week ago, on Wednesday, the Auditor General gave a very harsh overview of the future of priority public services. We don't have enough in a ten-year view, and it's about to be family doctors, teachers, rescuers, policemen, because we don't just get a follow-up. We are proud that with the help of Pipedrive, Estonia received the fifth unicorn company, whose value is estimated at over USD 1 billion. But what do we do as a country so that there will be the sixth unicorn, the seventh unicorn, etc.? So that the fresh Pipedrive business angels are motivated to realise their global ideas in Estonia and not in another country, what are we doing for it as a country? The 'Estonia 2035' strategy, which we are discussing here in the Riigikogu, aims to achieve a level of productivity equal to 110% of the European Union average in 15 years. I like ambition. But how can that be achieved? In an ageing country, this requires a significant increase in investment and much greater innovation in the economy as a whole. However, coalition politicians did not support the creation of a centre for applied research in the 2021 budget. The law amending the Aliens Act, which is being discussed in the Riigikogu, does not send a signal that talent is welcome in Estonia. On the contrary. Estonia needs strategic leadership and bold decisions to do great things. Almost 2 000 million deficits are needed unnoticed when it is shared among hundreds of projects without prioritising and without having a big plan. The Estonian state cannot and must not be run like a house government, but this is what the current government is doing. A responsible budget looks beyond one year. And our amendments are precisely from a strategic point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U379	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U380	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, While we in the Riigikogu are working on the National Budget Act 2021, local councils are discussing the budgetary strategies of municipalities and cities for the next four years and the budgets for 2021. In the context of the ongoing crisis, it is clear that in most municipalities, the increase in income tax as the main source of income for local governments has, in the best case, slowed down or even declined in more complex cases. Regardless of the fall in the revenue base, it is not possible for municipalities to drastically reduce management and labour costs. They mainly relate to the maintenance of kindergartens and schools, and to the salaries of kindergarten teachers and support staff, as well as to social protection and various forms of support. Thus, without knowing the length and depth of the crisis, but wishing to pursue a responsible fiscal policy in the same municipality, investments will be postponed in particular in order to save money. At the same time, the planned investments by municipalities are necessary for people living on the ground and delaying them means less services. The extension of the kindergarten, the renovation of the school, the larger road construction or the construction of a light traffic road may not be carried out. All of this is important for the local community and the failure or postponement of this will in turn increase the pressure on the budgets for the coming years. Yes, many municipalities have a credit capacity buffer. In spring, we gave the local governments the opportunity to increase the loan burden and yesterday we discussed the extension of this possibility. However, in times of crisis, interest rates on loans offered by banks have increased significantly for municipalities, which means that borrowing has become considerably more expensive than before the crisis. At the beginning of 2020, if the municipality was able to borrow 10 to 15 million at an interest rate of 1% and it was 0.5% years earlier, by the middle of this year it had risen to 1.6% in the example of the municipality, Rae rural municipality. It's obviously even higher today. In addition, the practice has shown that interest is more expensive for smaller amounts and for smaller municipalities located further away from the cities. However, in a situation where the income base of local governments is declining and local authorities need to make the necessary investments for the population, the use of the loan is inevitable. Prior to the crisis, however, local governments have taken investment into account both higher own resources and lower borrowing rates. In a new situation where the debt burden needs to be increased and interest rates have increased, they increase the amount of loan repayments over seven to ten years, which in turn puts the budget strategies and budgets planned for the coming years under pressure. The fact that local governments are pursuing conservative fiscal policies and, because of uncertainty about the future, delay or cancel investment also reflects the analysis prepared by Sulev Liiku, Head of the Department of Financial Management of Local Authorities of the Ministry of Finance in October of this year, "The recovery of the economy is in the hands and interests of the local government." The analysis points, among other things, to the need to invest in times of crisis, because in the context of the economic downturn, every EUR 1 invested will provide a 1.5-fold leverage, i.e. every euro contributed to the economy would return EUR 1.5. The analysis points out that, for example, investments made for approximately 130 million could, if quite estimated, result in an additional income tax of EUR 5 to 10 million for municipalities. We have heard many times from the government that the country has received a very favourable loan, at nearly zero interest rates, to cover the costs of the crisis. The State holds a liquidity reserve of more than EUR 2 billion of unspent credit on favourable terms. I have tabled an amendment to the National Budget Act 2021, which aims at zero or approximately zero interest rates for the benefit of the state... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U381	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U382	... long-term lending. For example, the payout period could be two years, 2021 to 2022, a couple to three years from the last payment, a repayment period of seven to ten years and a total amount of EUR 100 million to be provided, to be covered by loans from the State or by bond issues already made or planned by the State. According to the Government of the Republic's decree on "Conditions and procedures for applying for and granting a loan and a State guarantee', the interest rate on the loan granted to a person who does not have an official credit rating is the interest that the State would be able to commit under similar conditions at the time of the conclusion of the loan agreement. Perhaps the statement made by the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs today that the state cannot pass on the loan to the municipalities under the conditions in which it itself receives the loan is not, in my opinion, quite correct. It is clear from the regulation that if the State receives a favourable loan, it can pass it on just as favorably. During the additional budget procedure for 2020, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities has asked to consider the same proposal for a favourable loan to local governments by sending a proposal to the Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support local authorities during the crisis. With this decision, we do not so much support local authorities or councils in budgeting, but, above all, the people on the ground for whom these investments are being made and whose living environment is getting better from this. Thank you and I count on your support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U383	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U384	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I even brought this remote control with me the first document of the State Budget Act, which is very voluminous, and I reminded myself (this is something I would like to share with you here), which was written by the Ministry of Education and Research on the description of my own budget: "Sustainable activities to meet 2021 objectives. Important attention will be paid to the recognition, motivation, continuing training and follow-up of teachers, educational leaders and support professionals. " The story goes on. Whoever knows, they're in the loop. We have dealt with the Committee on Culture for months on the subject of teacher follow-up. Tomorrow, there will be a discussion in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu of an important national issue, which will focus on the subsequent growth of teachers. There is no news that these patterns from the keywords we received as input to the Committee on Culture were repeated and in the same order: information that teachers' salaries are not increased, information that wages are frozen for four years. It was very painful to face the people responsible for one of the most important things in the country, or teachers, by conducting this whole process. Now, from one educational survey. According to an international educational survey called "Education at a Glance 2020', in 2019 the pay of Estonian teachers was almost the lowest in terms of purchasing power compared to the pay of both teachers in the European Union and OECD countries. The latter is Latvia, but given that the pay of teachers in Latvia will rise next year, and we are, as is the case, in danger of Estonia occupying the last place. We are, according to PISA's results, a state of excellence from the level of education, but from the level of pay, we must say, among the latter. In addition, this survey highlights Estonia as one of the negative examples, which in recent years had a relative increase in total government expenditure of over 8 percentage points higher than the increase in public education expenditure. As a result, our share of education expenditure in GDP has fallen below the EU and OECD averages, accounting for only 4.5% of GDP. There is obviously no question of prioritising education here. As parents, we know that the teacher's working hours are legally 35 hours a week, but the reality is that they work 45 hours and more per week, which is almost one third larger than the law. This situation is unsustainable. Solutions must be found using today's skills and knowledge. The Estonian faculty is ageing and the growth of the faculty is too low. Almost 3,500 teachers are 60 years of age and older. We have nearly 16,000 teachers in Estonia. Assuming that the teacher works for 40 years, we would need 400 new teachers each year in general education schools alone, who remain in office for 40 years. Can you imagine what these numbers are? It's obvious that not everyone stays in school that long. The reality is that almost half of the teachers leave school after the first few years. Then why does the teacher stay in school if he stays, what are these main motivations? The first motivator is, of course, salary. Remuneration must be competitive. In addition, teachers must have career opportunities, they have a desire to be supported and noticed, the teaching profession should be valued at all levels. It is important that employers, while I mean the local government here, but also the ministry and others... I'll take some extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U385	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U386	... would value the teacher. This would also help to ease parents'attitude. This needs to be done quickly and teachers need to be given a wage supplement. I therefore ask you to support Amendment 14 tabled by some members of the Reform Party Group. We're asking for the teachers' payroll of 10 million. The aim of the amendment is to value the teaching profession and to stick to the goal of raising teachers' salaries to 120% of the average salary. The government has sent a message to teachers through the 2021 budget and the national budget strategy, as I said, that wages are being frozen. If the teacher's salary is frozen for the next four years, the teacher's salary will fall to the same level as in 2012. I would like to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U387	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U388	Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U389	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U390	Ladies and gentlemen, The budget for 2021, in the form presented to us, is a disgrace. The government has not dared to face the situation, the revenue and expenditure of the state has changed without adapting to the economic situation and a huge hole has been filled with a loan. The revenue of the state is 11 billion and the cost of 13 billion, the difference between them, almost 2 billion or a fifth, is actually enormous, without exaggeration at all. We can climb out of this hole. Every day, every month and every year, by which we postpone the adjustment of fixed costs to reduced regular incomes, increases our loan burden, but the coverage of fixed costs with a loan is not an investment that is expected to generate revenue that will enable the loan to be repaid and the interest costs of the loan to be covered. 2 billion loans, some 1 billion investments, even in a substantial part of the European Union's money, perhaps 300 million COVID-related costs. Securing fixed costs with a loan is a lack of courage, incompetence, looseness, populism in terms of management. None of these words should characterise the state budget or public finances in general. Loans taken to cover fixed costs will not return as investment income; they will have to be covered by the regular revenues of future periods, by future generations over the coming years. The people of Toomas Kivimägi and Pärnu have once tasted the fruits of loose and populist fiscal policy when the City Government of Pärnu, led by the Centre Party, left the costs unadjusted to the reduced revenue in 2007-2009. In 2009, the budget was empty and the city had unpaid bills for light and heat. 2500 employees and 40000 inhabitants of Pärnu city know that the timely failure to adjust fixed costs will result in wage cuts, redundancies, half of the street lights being rolled out and the snow piles being left under half the roadway. I really do not want these bitter fruits for the Estonian people, but with this budget we are driving towards them. Money really is, among other things, a minted freedom. If you are indebted, the creditors will take control of the debtor's life. By the way, Greece is making a particular effort towards budgetary balance so that it does not have to hand over its national safety net to its creditors again. The introduction to the state budget made it clear that the state is borrowing for economic recovery. When I started reading such an exaggerated budget, I was quite convinced that I would find extensive measures in the chapter of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, not even to revitalise tourism, but simply to keep it alive. The disappointment was immense. For the tourism economy, only normal business development and marketing measures were planned, as if the corona restrictions had not existed. Tourism belongs to Minister Siemi, who, together with the budget, also presented his plans for the recovery fund. There was no aid measure in favour of the tourism sector either. In the tourism sector, 5 000 workers have already been made redundant, but at least 15 000 of the 30000 workers in the sector have to be kept in order to be able to recover when normal connections recover and travel again. The representatives of the tourism industry have made a number of proposals to boost the tourism economy. In particular, the aim is to extend the well-functioning wage subsidy measure to companies in the tourism sector for a further six months in order to maintain a critical number of professional workers. 20 million are available for this purpose as the residual amount of the spring measure of the unemployment fund. 25 million more should be allocated to next year's budget. The government has not agreed to extend the labour market measure of the unemployment fund even in a situation where there has been a surplus since spring. The Prime Minister tells us we don't know what's going to happen by spring. I can predict what will happen by spring. The tourism sector built in Estonia in 30 years, which has accounted for 8% of gross domestic product and 10% of exports in the amount of 2 billion, will collapse into ruins. Workers in the tourism sector still withdraw 20 million from the unemployment fund. Unemployed. But what will replace tourism's tax revenues? I don't know, but I'd like to ask the government. Over the years, the tourism sector has paid hundreds of millions of euros in taxes. The tourism sector currently needs a small part of them back, those collected on the current account of the unemployment fund, and just as much next year. The Reform Party has proposed to boost the tourism sector with a budget of EUR 24 million for 2021. It was not supported by the Committee on Finance. This budget is impeccable and uncourageable, shameful. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote in favour of suspending the procedure for the draft budget 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U391	Annely... I'm sorry! A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U392	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, Once water also buries a hole in a stone. That's what I'm gonna do. The Estonian Association of Hospitals, the Estonian Association of Ambulances, the Estonian Association of Family Doctors and the Estonian Association of Nurses began negotiations this summer on the conclusion of a collective agreement on the remuneration of nurses in all health care institutions, which also offer services provided by nurses, including independent admission of nurses. Let it be said, for example, that sisters had 2.6 million independent receptions and more than half a million home visits in 2019. The agreement was scheduled for two years, and the project has also been sent to the Ministry of Social Affairs to include it in the collective agreements register. According to my information, the collective agreement has not been concluded until today, especially because of the lack of funding from the sickness fund. For the Health Insurance Fund, the government has planned an additional EUR 143 million instead of the EUR 178 million requested in the budget for the following year, which means that there is still a need to find EUR 35 million to enable employers to sign the above-mentioned collective agreement and to set prices for medical services in such a way that they also cover the rates of remuneration requested by nurses. I will briefly repeat what kind of pay the sisters want. As agreed by the nurses, since 1 January 2021 the minimum wage for nurses is 9 euros 40 cents per hour, 9 euros 90 cents per hour for special nurses and 6 euros per hour for care workers. From 1 January 2022, the minimum wage for nurses is EUR 10 40 per hour, for special nurses EUR 11 per hour and for care workers EUR 6 60 per hour. In addition, the collective agreement also concerns remuneration for night work, work on holidays and the replacement of another employee and the possibility of receiving paid paternity leave. There are currently 600 unfilled nurses in Estonia. In order to have as many sisters per population as the average in Europe, we need more 4,000 sisters, based on analyses of the respective organisations in Estonia and the world. Nurses have increased by 46% over the past 10 years. At the same time, according to the Institute for Health Development, only 11% of the nurses have come. So far, some wage increases in the collective agreement negotiations have prevented nurses from leaving abroad, but the increase in workload due to the low increase in nurses has forced sisters to resign at the end of this summer. I am thinking of the shortage of nurses, the solution can come first and foremost from two components. Firstly, a gradual wage increase under the terms of collective agreements between employers and employees. Secondly, the training of increased nurses in our universities of health care or, above all, in Tartu and Tallinn health universities. The reality is that there are as if there are enough nurses, but to this day no new agreement has been concluded between the universities of health care, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research to maintain the current agreement to accept 550 students for the basic education of two higher education institutions other than nurses. This is mainly hampered by the low funding of higher education institutions and the lack of remuneration for mentoring nurses' traineeships. In a situation where a sufficient number of trained sisters are not added, it is essential to increase the motivation for existing nurses to remain in employment. Experience so far has shown that even a small addition to the nurses' salary that has so far been achieved through collective agreements has kept our sisters in the health care system. That is why, together with our colleagues, we have tabled an amendment on the state budget to increase the EUR 35 million missing from the Health Insurance Fund so that employers and employees can conclude a prepared collective agreement and the sustainable system that has been in place so far can continue to work. I therefore ask you to support Amendment 39, which unfortunately was not supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U393	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U394	Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, By handing over the state budget a month and a half ago, the Prime Minister said that the aim of the state budget was to overcome the corona crisis and to support the improvement of people's lives. He also confirmed that the state budget reflects the government's comprehensive plan to overcome the corona crisis and takes us forward in a number of policies, such as that we need to stay healthy and we need to help those who need it most. All of this can be signed very right. But how this declaration and the figures actually recorded in the budget come together is a question of its own. How can there be a comprehensive plan where there is no compensation for the first days of illness in a situation where we have the most workplace sites, where the incidence of infection, 14 days per 100000 inhabitants, for example, is higher than in the spring, exceeds 200 people already, and we still expect the person to stay home with the first symptoms of the disease, lose three days' income and, if the disease becomes longer, then 30% more in the future? Of course, it makes sense both for human health and for society's health, but many of us cannot afford to lose our income. When a change in the compensation of sick days was made in the spring in an emergency situation, it came to the fore. This has been discussed for a long time in the summer and autumn, and today we have heard in Question Time about sick days that this decision has not been taken at the moment, these discussions are ongoing. That's what the Prime Minister said. He also stated that he felt that further work had to be done in this direction. He stated that he did not have that date to tell us today; he has to say that these discussions will continue at government level. The president of the Social Committee confirmed the draft compensation for sick days in today's debate: we need to discuss, think, consider, reach an agreement. Yes, it is undoubtedly important to have an agreement between social partners. However, in a crisis situation, this agreement cannot be delayed for months, as has now been the case. Now the question is who is opposed to compensation for sick days or why this decision was not reached. Why does such a time of discussion and thinking seem so endless? This may have been answered by Mart Helme, who said in today's debate that they are not convinced that social resonance to impose major restrictions would be positive. This reflects the basis on which the government decides. He decides whether the decision is popular or not. The crisis cannot be managed by making only popular decisions. People generally like decisions that mean that they don't have to change their behavior. The popular decision on the basis of which many people do not need to change their behaviour has no effect on preventing the spread of the virus. So by making popular decisions and only popular decisions, we cannot achieve the objective of preventing the spread of the virus. It is also necessary to make the right decisions, those that virologists, doctors, experts say are needed to prevent the spread of the virus. So please support Amendment 40 in order to compensate for the first days of sickness. In addition, coming back to the direction of the budget, we have to help those who need it most, then today... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U395	Please! Three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U396	... Liina Kersna spoke very meaningfully and warmly about our children in need, who have school stress, other concerns, and mental health problems. I would also like to support Amendment 12, the funding of the school psychologists' professional year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U397	Thank you. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U398	Austet Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, As a longtime history teacher, I know very well what crises the Estonian school has been going through. At the moment, however, the completely incomprehensible wage policy of the government is once again leading to a very deep crisis in our school. The Social Democrats, as a government party, stood for the rapid growth of the teachers' minimum wage. Thus, during the previous government, the minimum wage of teachers was reached once by the average wage of our country. During today's government, however, it was clearly behind the average national wage, even before the current economic crisis. The teacher's minimum wage is 1315 euros, while the average wage of the country was 1433 euros in the second quarter of this year. The government does like to stress that the average wage of teachers, which is higher than the national average, needs to be looked at. At the same time, earning an average salary usually involves a great deal of stress, class management, or other additional tasks for the teacher. In conclusion, the result may be a teacher's burnout. In any case, the government seems to think that teachers already serve well enough. In other ways, it is difficult to explain the decision of the government led by Jüri Ratas to freeze teachers' salaries not for one year but for four years. If the freeze of wages for the following year can still be understood in the light of the difficult state of the state budget, the longer period will be completely incomprehensible. In four years' time, today's economic crisis has long become history. By the way, the salaries of teachers were slightly increased during the last period of economic crisis. However, teachers' salaries are clearly not among the priorities of today's government. Auditor General Janar Holm, in a recent presentation in the Riigikogu, pointed out the painful truth that has long been known: it is increasingly difficult to find new teachers to replace teachers who are going to retire. There is already a huge shortage of teachers in some subjects. One such area is mathematics and science. Last year almost one in five physics and one in six chemistry and geography teachers were in retirement. While the best schools in the capital are attracting science teachers from each other, how difficult is it to find these teachers in our country schools? If there were no significant increase in the number of young teachers over a period of ten years and teachers who had experienced a dignified age had to continue, they would already be 36% at retirement age and, five years later, half of them would already be teachers. The decline in the number of students in schools may improve the situation a little, but not for long. Of course, a decent salary for young people is just one of the motivations to be a school teacher. But it's a very important motivator. We need young professionals in a number of highly paid areas. Thus, the continued wage increase of teachers is essential if we are to prevent one of the biggest crises in the history of the Estonian school. In short, two more proposals. One of the government parties has constantly attacked the foundations of the Estonian democratic society. However, history has shown that democracy can be very fragile. In this way, it is vital that our schoolchildren know and know the Estonian Constitution in the future, which also includes the founding truths of a democratic state. We have made an amendment as Social Democrats that would give the necessary money to give every Estonian graduate a book about the constitution of our country. And last. In difficult times, the state should not support the construction of new shrines, but help to maintain old churches, particularly those under heritage protection. So we have proposed that the money for the construction of the new church in Jõgeva be directed towards the restoration of the oldest church in Estonia, the Pöide church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U399	Thank you. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U400	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I chaired part of the meeting when the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs answered difficult questions. I really felt sorry for him. How much easier it would have been for him to respond to all these requests to raise wages in one area and another, to make extra costs if he could have said that we have a solid framework, we have a budget balance, and this balance gives us the opportunity to set the priorities that we have done, but, yes, unfortunately, we cannot count on all the priorities, so it is. But now it can be said that you are taking billions of loans, which is now a problem, that you cannot raise the wages of savers and teachers. Now some numbers. There's been a lot of talk about numbers today, but a few more. We have a tax burden that is falling compared to 2018, which is 32.7% of gross domestic product, which is very low and which is very positive of itself, so to speak, in isolation. But there's another number in the budget explanatory memorandum. These are consolidated expenditure and they will increase to 45.6% of gross domestic product in 2021, i.e. 32.7% are taxes, while expenditure will be 45.6%. This means that we will cover 71% of the consolidated expenditure with our money and 29% must come from loans or external aid. Well, let's look to the future, don't know if it's the healthiest. The chairman of the committee said what has been said many times that if he had taken out a loan in the old days, how many good things we would have done then, for example, the road to Tallinn and all kinds of good things. These other things are not mentioned. I agree, the Tartu highway could have been four lanes already. But what else has not been done, what has Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Romania, the Czech Republic and Hungary done better than we have? That's where the question always gets in the air. The chairman of the committee also mentioned that the 2019 budget was very bad. And then it's like in the atmosphere there's this notion that it's somehow the responsibility of the Reform Party. I would point out that the Reform Party had been outside the government for two years at the time. This budget, which was made before the elections and which has created many problems today, was presented by the Minister of Finance, who was a member of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association. So much so that next year, 30 years will come from the restoration of Estonia's independence. It was a time when we had a consensual urge towards the Western world and also towards Western world structures and Western world rules. Finance rules were part of it, and we tried to be the best. We tried to be bigger, larger than borders Estonia. We were trying to make an eye out in that sense. Then came the whole e-government project, launched 20 years ago by the so-called "triple union" government, led by the Prime Minister of the Fatherland. We all had the urge that we really want to be the best in all areas, including finance. The current budget is moving in a completely different direction. I'm very deeply sorry about that, humanly. Indeed, the generation and more have passed since Estonia regained independence and when it was like one of the principles. I am very sorry that certain doubts have arisen with respect to these principles. So I call on you to support Amendments 42 to 44 which, in some ways, bring back such financial soundness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U401	Thank you. Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U402	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the need for additional investments in national defence. We've been building national defence for 30 years now. At first, we did so with very few means, perhaps the last seven or eight years have been more or less a normal level of funding, but still, the sum of the sum is also 2% of Estonia's GDP a very small amount. To a large extent, too, because the money has simply been very low, technical forces such as navy, marine defence as a whole have been excluded from attention, it would be feasible from the sea or from the country or in combination, as well as mid-earth anti-aircraft. The development of these areas needs to be initiated today. If we do not do so today, if we do not do so in this budget period, we will do so later and we will achieve operational capacity in these areas even later. The situation is that if the army has evolved, well, satisfactory to the grade, the marine defense is far behind it. Otherwise, you have to choose whether to come by land with mechanized units, where there is a fairly modern anti-tank, minefields, pioneer barriers, artillery barriers, or from the sea behind us, where he probably doesn't have to take any shots to self-defense. So I propose that the Riigikogu support the protection of the sea, or rather support the coastal defence of this tactical substructure, or finance it with 10 million euros so that the development capacity is at least initiated. With this money, you can buy a set of mines, build an infrastructure to store them, initiate trainings, etc. The government has not been prepared to make such structural changes in order to move forward faster with the protection of the seas. But hopefully, structural developments will continue. Equally critical is the lack of medium-range anti-aircraft. It's quite difficult to imagine there's a landing operation in some area, but it can't be protected by mid-range anti-aircraft. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U403	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U404	In order to create the prerequisites for NATO to help us, we must initiate the development of appropriate capabilities such as mid-earth air control and marine defence. In order to initiate the development of anti-aircraft in the Midlands, I propose that the Riigikogu finance this area by allocating EUR 20 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U405	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U406	Ladies and gentlemen, It's a revolutionary budget. Some of my associates would probably say, as in previous points, that it is a communist budget. Actually, it's a long way to go to socialism here, too, unfortunately, but it's a little keinsian. Under the conditions of Estonia, this is a revolutionary budget. And why is that? Very simple: this time the Estonian state will not expel the devil with a peltsebul, it will not cut in the face of recession, it does not think that employees should cover the risks of bankers. Today's Estonian government dares to manage the economy, dares to create jobs, dares to borrow. Unlike in the previous crisis, when interest was at the lowest level in history, Estonia looked at the ceiling or cut it. When we talk about Greece, we will see what happened to Greece afterwards: for every euro that Greece cut off, their GDP fell by one and a half euros. Estonia does not do like Greece this time. Estonia learned from this. Estonia is not cutting its economy to death, it is reviving it. Let's get this whole deficit thing straight. Since 1932, thanks to Richard Kahn and John Maynard Keynes, the state's costs are always productive. Pension increases are productive. Pensioners generally don't sit on a pile of money like dragons. The pensioner takes this money and spends it, especially the Estonian pensioner, whose income, unfortunately, is still very low. I think that we still need to see the rise in pensions in a number of budgets. A pensioner goes to the store with this money, probably buys food, more or better food, but maybe he'll buy himself some new plates in the bathroom. But in any case, it means more customers in the store, it means more work for the cashier, the janitor, the floor worker, more pay for them. They go to the store, they buy more stuff. This means that the economy is growing, it means more orders for farmers, it means more orders for arbitrary production. This means that our economy is growing. And it comes from public spending because the state raised pensions. Similarly, health care costs are an investment: longer lived a healthy life, a person produces longer, a person consumes longer, not to mention happiness, he goes to the store, buys records, buys food, buys interesting things, goes to the cafeteria, maybe even comes to the Old Town cafe. And as a result, everyone gets richer. The kind of thing that we have some fixed costs that are somehow just costs doesn't exist. Each country's spending is productive. What else did I hear? Help, our loan burden is increasing! Think of our children now, we can't borrow forever! Yes, we can. It's a little different with countries than with people or businesses. You see, countries don't have to be afraid that they'll suddenly die before the debt is repaid. Countries don't die, which means that when you're a country, you can essentially borrow forever, you can make money forever, according to what your economic situation is. And if the government does not take this money to a foreign online casino, it is very likely that this money will cause the economy to grow, to grow reasonably, and we do not have to worry about increasing the debt burden, we do not have to worry about servicing the loan. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U407	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U408	So what's our line? In fact, you could think that maybe we are going to rethink our economy, maybe we could ask for a lot less taxes and borrow a lot more money, create more money ourselves. Why can't Eesti Pank buy all the bonds that the market doesn't buy? Such projects have also been carried out in the world. Among other things, this has not been done at all by Communist governments. That, too, is something that should be considered in the future. But we have one border there, one balance that should, of course, be observed. This is not a budget balance. This is the balance of the country's balance of payments, in particular the balance of trade. If we have more responsibilities to the outside world than requirements, then, it is true, we live by someone else's grace, we are dependent on someone else. If we have the opposite situation and Estonia has the opposite situation, and for a very long time there has been the opposite situation, then it means that we live below our means. For years, Estonia has systematically kept much of the wealth that we have created away from our citizens. We will not all be part of the wealth that we have created together, because some believe that budgetary balance is needed. As a result, people squeak, and as a result, workers pay for the wide lives of bankers. This has to stop now. Right now, we're done. We don't steal from our people's pockets, we give them what they've created in their work. Therefore, this budget has only one problem. I hope that from now on, things will get better with this big problem. I'm sure there's some small things you can fix. But in terms of a big strategy, the problem is that this loan is a little short. Our country's economic situation would allow us to take it considerably more, to make sensible, long, ten-year bonds. I hope that's where we're going. But in the current situation, looking at our history of excellent budget. I hope you all support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U409	Thank you. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U410	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The state budget for 2021 can be safely described as the budget for boosting the Estonian economy and investment. In a number of sectors of the economy, buffers have been used up in anticipation of recovery after the first wave of the Corona virus, and it is therefore difficult to cope with the new wave of the virus crisis. In order to maintain the normal rhythm of life and help entrepreneurs cope with the new situation, the Estonian state has also used the loan money. However, I would like to stress that we are doing this responsibly, thinking primarily of the people of Estonia. Estonia's fiscal policy is also supported by the rating agency Fitch, who confirmed Estonia's long-term sovereign rating at a high level with a stable outlook. According to the Agency, Estonia has been well able to withstand the effects of the corona virus as a small and open economy. Estonia's economic downturn this year has been projected to be more modest than the euro area average. It is important to note that all European countries are currently borrowing and that Estonia's debt burden is competitively lowest in the euro area. In the first quarter of 2020, Estonia's loan burden was 8.9%, the European Union average reached 80%, and the countries with the highest debt burden, such as Greece, Italy, Portugal, Belgium, France, far exceed 100%. Therefore, I assure you that Estonian finances are still in good shape. Good listeners! Next year's state budget has four main strands: health, social protection, research and development, and the green and digital revolution. In all these areas, we have the opportunity to contribute specifically to the local economy and to our people. The Estonian economy will probably rely more on more virus-resistant sectors in the coming years, such as information and communication, health care, forest and timber industries. This is a good opportunity to build four-way highways in three main directions: from Tallinn to Pärnu, Narva and Tartu. This investment ensures work for Estonian companies and solves the long-standing problem of safe driving. Great attention can also be paid to Ida-Virumaa. The European Union's recovery facility provides good preconditions for this. The topic was also discussed at the conference on Ida-Virumaa held in the Riigikogu today. Thanks to the crucial fair transfer fund for Ida-Viru County, Estonia's aid is quadrupled from 125 million to 552 million. The objective of the Fair Transition Fund is to support retraining and businesses in order to create new economic opportunities. There is an increasing need to pay attention to the implementation of renewable energy projects, in particular wind and solar projects, and to the launch of a clean hydrogen-based economy in Europe. This difficult period is a good opportunity to restructure the economy. The information and communication sectors have been the least affected by Estonian industries. The most difficult situation, however, was caused by the outbreak of the virus by companies involved in accommodation, catering and travel arrangements. I recently read the news that ICT companies, in cooperation with the state and other interested parties, are setting up Jõhvi International School of Technology, where learning is free of charge. The Estonian start-up sector has grown by 30% a year for the last five years. We are short of thousands of software developers in Estonia and therefore companies must hire them from abroad so that we can compete at world-class level. For my part, I encourage people at a crossroads to consider ways of testing themselves in the field of ICT. Ladies and gentlemen, Public R &amp; D funding will increase to 1% of GDP next year. In this context, it is important to note that in research and higher education, support for growth in the economy will be increased... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U411	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U412	... to realise their potential. A resource enhancement programme will be launched to support business-driven research and development in the enhancement of wood, food and land-based resources, in order to foster the capacity of research groups in these areas, the growth of sectoral professionals and development cooperation between businesses and research institutions. The development of thematic R &amp; D programmes is started in areas of focus based on Estonia's development needs. Yes, the climate target for Europe is set: to achieve climate neutrality in 2050. This time may seem distant, but the reality is already at the door. That is why we have invested funds specifically in the restoration of apartment buildings. This could save energy to around 60% and reduce CO2 emissions by nearly 90%, only if we started quickly renovating apartment buildings. The budget for 2021 is aimed at Estonian people and Estonian companies. I call on the members of the Riigikogu to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U413	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U414	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's second-reading state budget by 2021 will unfortunately not solve the problems that people actually have and are suffering from. True, Christmas arrived at the local authorities in the middle of the summer. The amount of concrete and asphalt placed in roads, streets, and squares was impressive. I'm glad it was done. The loan money was invested, people got jobs on the ground, local governments received taxes. What about people? Today, it is certainly more than ever necessary to find a solution to the problems of long-term care burdens in order to ensure human-centred care for all those in need. The Estonian population is ageing and the system of organising long-term care urgently needs fundamental changes that would reduce the care burden of family members and also provide assistance to people with care needs. Those who want to be family carers should be rewarded, those who want to work in what they learn should be able to do so calmly, knowing that their loved ones are well cared for. What would I like to see in this budget? There is a need to increase public funding to improve access to services, with the aim of allocating additional funding to local authorities for the development and provision of social services, which would also reduce the own contribution of people with care needs to pay for care services. There is a need to ensure that carers deserve carers' allowance, social guarantees and other necessary services. This could also be done by municipalities if the State had taken decisions on the issue of long-term maintenance burden. I am quite convinced that there are no people in this Chamber who do not know the problems with the organisation of health care and care. This does not require special or higher education in these areas. At present, the recipient of the basic costs and liabilities is the recipient of the service and its family's own contribution is increasing over the years. Children and grandchildren are the ones who pay for the difference or then stay away from work, becoming carers due to circumstances and lack of funds. As an example, the share of the recipient and his family in paying for the care home has increased steadily. While it was 65% in 2010, it was 76% in 2016 and increased to 80% in 2018. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, in 2018 people paid 53 million euros for the care home service, consisting of an elderly's own pension and the fees paid by children or grandchildren, which were set to offset the amount between the pension and the care home. At the same time, the state, together with local governments, spent only 14 million euros on nursing home services. And while in 2008 the cost of the state and local authorities was 11 million euros and the people paid 17.5 million euros themselves, in ten years the cost of the municipalities has only increased by 3 million euros, which is 14 million, as has been said, and the amount of the people's contribution has increased by 35.5 million euros, or a total of 53 million euros. The burden on family and family carers is too great, financially, psychologically, and physically. Poverty and old age and family care are women's faces. It is no secret to anyone that the poverty of older people is great in Estonia. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U415	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U416	Thank you. Today's guardian will be a very small pension recipient in the future. My good colleagues have spoken here and asked for support for various necessary things, such as the additional funding for the school psychologists' professional year, the increase in nurses' wages, the increase in teachers' pay, the reimbursement of sick days. I ask for your support for Amendment 41. This would guarantee the retirement of the nursing home. Not everyone leaves this life with skates on and tennis rec in their hands. Some people need care services and they need good care services. That is what the state owes them, and it should also pay them. Secondly, I would like to ask for support for Amendment 27, an increase in the income tax-free minimum to the minimum wage. This would certainly help both middle pension beneficiaries and those who receive a small salary, who would not then have to pay income tax on it. The chairman of the Committee on Finance, answering my question today, said that only one of the 44 amendments received support. I hope that this hall, by considering and listening to the speeches that have been made here before me and also after me, suddenly finds it reasonable to support a number of proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U417	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U418	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue where my colleague Johannes Kert left off, perhaps I will talk about defence spending, not only in the perspective of next year, but also in the perspective of the RES and even in the ten-year perspective. I would like to say right away, to warm up, that the hand does not rise to vote against the proposal of honourable colleagues concerning medium-distance anti-aircraft and coastal defence. These issues are important. The Estonian Conservative People's Party tried to raise this issue in the government, solve this problem, put the necessary funds in the RES, but it failed. Now the opposition is about to do another test. Of course, this proposal in itself is unprecedented, because so far the opposition has never proposed an increase in defence costs. This is now the first time in the history of the Republic of Estonia, which deserves to be mentioned separately. But what does midland anti-aircraft mean, and why is it necessary? I'm just gonna pick up a few more things here, besides what General Kert already said. We are talking about weapons systems with a range of 30 to 60 kilometres in terms of radius and 10 to 16 kilometres in air. In Estonia, we are talking about a battalion with four batteries, or half the capacity required, which includes two batteries. The minimum cost of the battalion is 250 million, and the cost of two batteries is 125,130 million. Perhaps this will not, of course, be obtainable or feasible in one year. The Lithuanians made a decision in 2016 and now, in 2020, they are just getting that capability. Maybe the sooner we make that decision, the better. If we make a decision now, we will see the results in 2024. In fact, this would also mean very significant changes to the RES, for example, 35 to 40 million each year. These are very serious decisions. When we discussed this issue in the Commission, of course, we did not reach a consensus so quickly to resolve this problem. But we should get to that. In order for us to be able to achieve this at all, it is clear that the new National Defence Development Plan for 2021 to 2030 does not make sense within the framework of 2% or 2%+; it simply does not respond to our current security situation. Our defence spending has increased, but security threats since the war in Ukraine have increased faster. That is why, in fact, political parties or political party leaders should get together and make a cross-party defence agreement stating how much we would be willing to raise defence costs by 2.5%, 2.6%, or another amount, for this 10 year period, not one or four, but ten years, covering the next development plan period from 2021 to 2030. This agreement should be reached so that it will have an impact on the new development plan, within this year or at the latest by the end of January. The completion of the new development plan has been postponed; it should be completed by next spring. We need this input to solve these problems in a strategic way so that the capabilities we are developing are sustainable. I understand, of course, the views of the Minister of Defence and the Commander of the Defence Forces that we need a longer-term view of this whole problem, but this view cannot be achieved so easily. I am inviting you, perhaps, to the parties and to the leaders of the parties... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U419	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U420	...up so we can work together. There is no coalition here, there is no opposition here, because this period is longer. We need to reach this consensus agreement, determine what the defence costs will be, what greater capabilities we want to develop, so that we can have a better overall basis and consensus in the dangerous security situation in which we live. Why is midland anti-aircraft still important? We saw during this military conflict, which has now stopped in Karabakh, with a ceasefire, that vulnerability from the air could be so strong in the case of newer weapons systems, or drones, that it could affect the fate of an entire military conflict. In this key, we need to look very carefully at what we are doing, for example, with regard to this very medium-country anti-aircraft. Once again, I call on you to look at this in the long term. Let's review the RES and review it for ten years, which is our input into the new development plan. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U421	Thank you. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U422	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! We've been here for hours listening to half-truths, lies, misinterpretations, accusations, raptures torn out of context on budget issues. This is a very good budget. I agree with Mr Oudekki Loone, who said the same words: this is a very good budget. It's a budget for thinking outside the box. I was sorry to see a previous speaker who has been on several ministerial posts who began to tell us about the financial wisdom of the Soviet economics department here. The financial wisdom of the Faculty of Economics of Soviet times! I'm sorry! We're in the 21st century, not 1971 or 1972. Everything's changed. Out-of-box thinking is already needed for the sole reason that this budget is not being done as it was in previous decades, when there was relative stability, when it was possible to predict, with relatively small fluctuations in the economy and finances, what the tax receipts are, what the so-called fixed costs are, etc. We're not in this situation. We have a completely unpredictable situation. We're having a corona crisis, a pandemic. This is not just about Estonia. This also concerns our economic partners. The way their economies are doing depends, among other things, on what is going to happen to our budget receipts and what kind of expenditure we need to spend on this budget so that our social system, our health care, public finances as a whole do not collapse. We can't think in a box in this situation. We are facing an economic crisis that has already essentially been triggered. We may have a very serious financial crisis ahead of us. There are more and more people who say that today's currency systems are no longer able to withstand stress. And in this situation, we are still told the story of the University of Tartu School of Economics of 1970. It's not adequate. The budget that we are now presenting, which the coalition is defending, is economy. It wants to channel as much money into the economy as possible so that different sectors of the economy can keep their noses on the water and that people do not lose their jobs, do not create social imbalances. That is what this budget is calling for. I fully understand Helmen Hunt's concern for people who find it difficult to cope with health reasons in their lives. I understand very well the needs of our military budget, our military budget, which was protected from this remote control, and I understand many other issues in every way. But I would also ask those who criticise this budget to realise that we are not in a normal situation. A few words about what is good in this budget. In this budget, it is good that we are actually raising defence costs. We would have raised the cost of defence considerably more if certain politicians and military forces were not stuck in a box of thinking. I would have raised more. We make big investments in the health care system, upgrade, reorganize... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U423	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U424	... health system infrastructure, because we have had population changes, demographic changes and we need to keep up with them. It is wrong to criticise as if the wages of rescuers, policemen and others were not raised. In last year's budget, we raised their salaries. The first and second governments of Jüri Ratas are those governments that have raised the salaries of workers in these sectors twice over the long and long term. I would like to congratulate the previous Minister for the Interior, Mrs Anvelt, during which one raise took place. The second raise took place last year under my leadership. But not only does wage increases matter. We have also allocated nearly EUR 100 million to the development of infrastructure for rescuers, police, border guards and all other internal security agencies in the Ministry of the Interior, to improve working conditions. This, too, is important in the conditions under which people work so that they do not work in humid rooms with molded walls, but work in repaired, aired, possibly new buildings. We have invested heavily in physical infrastructure and we have launched and are launching a number of road projects. One of the previous speakers said that yes, the road to Tallinn, but what else. But what else? We could have built a permanent facility in Saaremaa. We are overwhelmed by the fact that our energy infrastructure has become obsolete, largely in Soviet times, needs to be replaced. I could use some money in there, too. And then there's some completely unintelligible story about how you're gonna have to pay back your debt. Sweethearts, raise your hand, which one of you doesn't have a bank loan. Some don't, but a lot of people do. You're gonna pay it back, but you're already living in a new house or a new apartment. Well, with cars, of course, it's nice for you to give off, because the Conservative People's Party is the only group that doesn't pay for car leases on the cost benefits. So you've left this fun to the taxpayer, you don't have a burden to bear here. But most people in Estonia pay car leases on their wages. Okay, I gotta go. I'm going to draw it down and say: it's a good budget. It's a budget for thinking outside the box. This is a creative budget, and with this budget we will save the Estonian economy and the Estonian people from poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U425	Thank you. Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U426	Just in case, I'll take three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U427	Please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U428	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, For the Fatherland, it is a budget to come out of the health and economic crisis. For the Fatherland, the keywords here are the protection of Estonian national interests, open economy, security, education, families and the freedom of people to decide for themselves. These are the keywords that are clearly opposed to this budget. For the Fatherland, there has been an important message of tax peace. Again, this has not been said at any point today, and I think it is necessary to emphasise once again: just as in previous budgets, like last year, neither in the first reading, nor in the second reading, nor in the third reading on 9 December, there will be no change in the rate towards an increase or any possible new tax. This coalition has agreed on a tax truce. It's unique. Looking at previous coalitions, where the Fatherland itself has participated, we have seen, over time, the rise in tax rates or the introduction of new taxes on 1 January. A tax truce is important for the Fatherland. Responsible fiscal policy is important for the Fatherland. It's been talked about quite a few times here today. Let's talk again. We see this budget overcoming the health crisis and the economic crisis. Accordingly, we are working on this budget. To overcome the health crisis, we make additional investments or give money to the health insurance fund, hospitals, various procurements, we obtain medical equipment that all pays money, but which aims to overcome the health crisis as softly as possible. In addition, we have an economic crisis. We see it, we see what has happened this year: the economy has made a rebound. Yes, he has done less than we expected, but the fact is that over 6% of the economy has fallen this year. We see that this budget must channel money into the economy. The Fatherland believes that you cannot live long enough, but today we need to revive the economy. Today is the moment when it is possible to enjoy better growth in the future by putting money into investment. Why do we need economic growth? We need economic growth in order to generate revenue in the future, either to invest or to spend it in the right place. If we do not benefit from the economy, we will also have no money to channel either teachers' salaries, to raise pensions or to build four-line roads. It is important that the economy grows. If we look at the costs and revenues in the short term, yes, we can say that in the wake of the economic recovery: our costs exceed our revenues. However, if you look at the country's four-year budgetary strategy, first at the economic forecast that reached the government at one point, and then at the four-year strategy that eventually exited the government, it can be said to be dynamically reducing the budget deficit. By 2024 we will see a significantly lower budget deficit than what the Ministry of Finance originally expected in its summer economic forecast. R &amp; D is important for the Fatherland. Look at next year's budget. We are living at a historic moment: 1% for research and development. In previous years, several coalitions have tried to find a way to restore or even restore 1%, but to achieve it. It's gonna happen next year. It took 56 million extra. They found the money. For the Fatherland, protection is essential. This has been one of our great priorities over time. In Fatherland, there has been an opportunity to hold the Ministry of Defence's portfolio for a long time. We are pleased to note that next year, although the country's GDP is falling, apart from keeping it at 2%, no additional investment will be given in, the agreement that is foreseen in the development plans will be kept and the additional money will be channelled to the defence capabilities. In any previous year, there has been no such high level of defence capacity, either in financial terms or in percentage terms, with a magnitude of 2.3% (I could be wrong with a tenth). Of course, the Estonian language is also important for the Fatherland, which perhaps has been spoken little during the negotiations on this budget, but what is definitely worth saying. We will see financial allocations in next year's budget so that Russian-language kindergartens and schools can receive further education in Estonian. Our goal is that it is not only a question of learning the Estonian language, but of learning the Estonian language. If we look at the changes that are to be voted on today and also on 9 December, at third reading, I will highlight one amendment that will once again bear the message of economic recovery. Today we are going to vote on an amendment on maritime affairs. We have been working on maritime affairs for a long time, we have made various changes, we have also made tax incentives, we have reduced bureaucracy, so that maritime affairs in Estonia have an important place, so that we are attractive, so that ships come under the Estonian flag, etc. If you look at the amendment, you will see that, when we worked on the additional budget for 2020, we provided additional funds to exempt vessels from the fees for waterways, but until 31 March next year, now with the amendment we are giving the opportunity to slow down or not pay 50% of the fee for waterways until the end of 2021. This is again EUR 6.65 million, which must be found at the expense of 'internal resources'. But it gives us the opportunity to grow our economy, make our entrepreneurship more attractive in maritime affairs, etc. These are the steps that reflect and show what the state budget is like. So I'm asking you to support it! The Fatherland is definitely behind this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U429	Thank you. Maris Lauri, please! Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U430	Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone sees this budget with their own eyes, in their inner sense. You can't blame me for that. But no one is obliged to look at things with the eyes of another person. That is why I look at this budget with my own eyes. From time to time, I have to say, I have a feeling that there is talk of a budget other than what has been brought before us. In this deficit of EUR 2 billion, less than a billion are going into investment. Most of it actually comes from European Union money. This means that out of this 2 billion deficit, or money, which is taken as loans or from the few reserves that may still be available for next year, you should know what will happen at the end of this year, running expenses will be incurred. Sadness is also that many of the running costs are not linked to the crisis, but to permanent expenditure. These are the costs that will remain for the next, the next and the next year. I don't know if there's anything to finance for a loan, it should be temporary, in the future, profitable, but running costs... Do you really go shopping day after day and buy food with a loan? Probably not. That doesn't make much sense. Maybe you'll have a wallet empty one day, and you'll take a loan from someone, friends and relatives, to survive, but you certainly don't plan this thing for long and lasting. That is exactly what this budget is doing. That is why I am saying that there is quite a lot of irresponsibleness in this budget. We are experiencing a crisis, a health crisis, an economic crisis, and it is clear that, in such a situation, it is not wise to draw up costs or to set up taxes and budget balances. No one's ever talked about it. The question is, if a loan is taken and some things are done, there should be a purpose, a goal, to give the future a chance. But for the most part of this budget, it does not really exist. The money is scattered around a lot of places. There are certainly sensible things, but they are certainly not as magnificently good as they are intended to show us. It is a great thing that science funding rose to 1% of GDP, but it only rises because our economy is falling. This provided an opportunity to meet this 1% target. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we have repeatedly tried to understand what is planned to do with this 1%. This has proved completely impossible. Because pay attention! The ministers refuse to provide the relevant information to the Riigikogu. You can't do that. Ministers are accountable to the Riigikogu and they must give us information. Not the way we're doing right now, for weeks of stalling. As a result, I have reason to believe that this research money will be disbanded and that we will not benefit from it. That is sad, because you could think about the future and make an effort to really make things better for us. We're told here that it's nice to take out a loan and we could take it forward. I said before that the question is always what we borrow for and what we achieve. If we borrow to create our home, that's the point. If we are constantly borrowing to cover our running costs or to buy new and fancy clothes in front of you, we will end badly. There are very many people in Estonia who are in serious trouble with their loan burden. A lot. They're in very serious trouble, very serious trouble, and they're exactly the same mentality that, well, let's take a moment, it's nice to live well for a moment. It's also thinking outside the box. But thinking out of that box means you, without realizing it yourself, somewhere else. I have the feeling that the same thing is happening to us and Estonia right now. We're thinking of ourselves in another box again. They say a wise person learns from the mistakes of others, a fool doesn't even learn from his own. Luckily, this last one about Estonia cannot be said yet. But we will not act wisely if we do not learn from the mistakes of others. Other countries have gone this way. And to think that a loan will never be repaid, or that interest on the loan will not rise, or so on, is foolish, no matter who says it, any person with any title or title. There are certainly many amendments to the budget aimed at increasing expenditure. Some of them are not very reasonable, but maybe they are signs of being concerned about something. Some are actually examples of priorities that should be done. So there's still a way to change things. We don't have to go to the very end of this budget today. Because of the fact that this budget, by chance, maybe, by accident, could work, the Reform Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of this budget law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U431	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U432	Give me three minutes just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U433	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U434	Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to this debate here, made some notes and discovered that we had a moving consensus here in the Riigikogu. The communist world view and the right-wing populists have found themselves in an out-of-box situation. Unfortunately, we've been left behind by the box, but it's exciting to see Dad protect his son and the right-wing populists protect the communists. And the son that my father protects, when he becomes a minister of finance, said he didn't know math. I'm afraid you can see that. But how have we got here? I'll think back a little bit about what started today's debate. This began with a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. After all, the same chairman of the committee belongs to a party who, a few years ago, wanted to state in the Constitution that the state budget must be balanced. In the spring, the same Chairman of the Monetary Commission accidentally used the expression "unrefundable loans" and then apologized in advance and back when he was asked to hear if the language suddenly slipped. He admitted he was wrong. It hasn't been a long time, and now, in the autumn, we are proud to talk about a new thing that is a non-refundable loan. The Minister of Finance, when he came here to introduce us to the budget, even spoke about the non-refundable loan based on the example of Sweden, where it is true that the real estate loan is non-refundable. There's only one thing he forgot: if you don't pay the loan back there, you'll be taken away from this house, this security, instead of a non-refundable loan. So no money, but the house goes. Maybe it's a non-refundable loan. Of course, the Constitution and the inclusion of a balanced budget are no longer spoken of at all, but this non-refundable loan is spoken of with pride. There was also talk of a tax peace here, like a great achievement. But this tax truce is basically at the expense of the future. By borrowing in this way, as the Estonian state is doing today, we will inevitably face tax increases in a few years' time. We just have to raise taxes, whoever's in the government. But the current government doesn't think of the future at all. They said this budget was unique. Yeah, I'm sure there are some points. On this point, if you don't think about the future, the next government, you don't think about the next election. It's called a burnt money tactic. The next one will raise taxes and start paying back. It is also a unique budget in the sense that, for the first time, we see how money is distributed so secretly to their own and their fellow members, but from those who dare to make honest news or unpleasantly, such as national broadcasting, they threaten to take money away, whether it is meant to build a house or something else. There was also talk about how countries do not have to pay back loans and countries can borrow no matter how much, because countries do not die. But let's think differently: if we borrow, eventually we die, we bequeath something to our descendants, and they discover that this legacy consists only of debts, then they have the opportunity to give up the inheritance. Do our children have the opportunity to give up Estonia or to give up the debt burden we give them? Jüri Adams wrote about one of the biggest problems in Estonia, which is that people are increasingly giving up Estonian citizenship because Estonia does not allow them double citizenship. This does not concern the budget in itself, but it is about the atmosphere we have created: we do not want strangers in, we are happy to hold on to national borders, and if our own go away, then go, run there in Sweden or where the hell else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U435	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U436	Thank you, Mr President. Three minutes extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U437	Please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U438	Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, Sven Sester's speech, which listens to me from the group and who stated that 1 January 2021 is unique in that no tax rate is rising. That's the wrong argument. Tobacco duty is rising, rising until 2023 and these increases were adopted by this government at the end of 2019. Now out of the budget. Indeed, I think it has also been very peculiar, if not strange, to see how the extremists agree with Oudekki Loone that it is a revolutionary budget, after Mrs Loone called it almost a communist turn under the leadership of the Estonian state. In fact, it is a perfectly normal budget where there is nothing very revolutionary. 90+ per cent of this budget is exactly the same as in the previous and previous years and years before that. The hundreds of million that the government has decided to redirect this year to one place or another are undoubtedly available, and those who are in power must show themselves better than they really are. But I think it speaks most of thoughtlessness when it comes to using this extra money. Somewhere we're gonna fix up a little bit of the street, I'm sure the minister or the ambassador can go to that town and say, "You see, I brought you the money, now the street's ready." Somewhere in town, there must be a monument. Undoubtedly, in the midst of one of the biggest economic and social crises in the Republic of Estonia, it is the monument that needs the country to be revived. However, the strategic approach to the long-term challenges facing Estonia does not appear to be the work of this government. This is probably because of what political scientist Tõnis Saarts has said that there is no one-size-fits-all vision of the problems facing the Estonian state. How, then, could the solution package recall systemicity in any way? Since this has not been the case, it has been agreed, well, in such a way that you can see the wallet is here in the middle of the table, ten for you, ten for me, ten for you, and then put it where you want to mobilise your voters better. There's a green turn to illustrate. The turn of the Green is indeed very important and, without doubt, there will be a great deal of money in this area, mostly foreign money, but also money. Undoubtedly, the global climate crisis, unlike what today's Minister for the Environment thinks, is an existential concern that Estonia must contribute significantly more strongly to resolving. However, it is not possible to move towards achieving climate neutrality at the same time and to publicly finance the construction of a new oil shale plant, which will increase Estonia's annual emissions by 5%. It is not possible to talk about the fact that we need to make Estonian transport environmentally friendly, while at the same time all the investments that are in the transport sector, other than electrification of trains, actually mean asphalting Estonia for cars. It is quite possible to agree that we are not interested in this green matter, that we may try to question global science in this area of education, but to say that now we are all fighting for a green turn and, at the same time, to take the opposite steps, which are actually taking us beyond this goal, are certainly not talking about strategic leadership. One good thing about this budget undoubtedly is what deserves to be highlighted. This is an increase in R &amp; D expenditure to 1% of GDP. It is a pity that it was necessary to break the floor at the beginning of the government parties when they failed to find this money last year, when the promise was made to the public by the parties, but it was good that this decision has been made now and also in the country's budget strategy for the next four years. We hope that this new, certain lasting value can be preserved. The story of teachers' salaries is much sadder, where there is, on the contrary, going back. In fact, in 2013, just before I became Minister of Education, at the time of Jaak Aaviksoo it began and [continued] from that time on. I tried to keep the pace of teachers' wage increases at 100 euros a year in all years. It didn't work out for all the ministers, but it did. I know that all governments have actually worked so far to find this money to ensure that teachers succeed. The question is not only that, as they say, teachers can survive a year without an increase in wages, that it is difficult for everyone. After all, the question is that in a situation where we are in the context of teacher training, we have an ageing faculty and the quality of education is about to suffer because of the fact that old experienced educators are going to retire and young people are not going to come up with so much education, we would be able to give this sequence to future teachers that, yes, the state values this profession so much that every year, as in the case of medical practitioners, we have actually been able to guarantee it over the years, in a stable way. Here's the minus sign very senseable. Not just said baranka, but said baranka for the next four years. This is a very, very sad message. Last but not least, there's a lot of talk here that it's an exit from the corona crisis, an improvement, whatever, the budget for overcoming it. All kinds of headlines have been placed on this budget. Indeed, probably at the beginning of September, when we Social Democrats began to talk about the need for further preparation for the second wave and for the necessary changes to be made in due time, including compensation for sick days to reduce infection at the workplace, more was euphorically done at the level of the government on how to distribute the money from the opened loan screens to its friends and supporters. This was not the case at the time. It's been two months now. We can see that the second wave is reaching its climax, we have a virus spread in several areas that is getting out of control or out of control. One of the most important sites of infection is the workplace. Of course, compensation for sick days is essential in order to control the virus. This has not been said by politicians, but by specialists who make these models and forecasts. But there's still no decision. Let's think, let's discuss, very important, everyone agrees that we have to do, that there is almost an agreement, but we still have to discuss it. Friends! Meanwhile, the virus is spreading. All of this has a human, social and economic cost. This decision should be made quickly. But, at least today, we understood why this decision had not been made: Mart Helme came here and said that it was a communist initiative to enable people to get compensation for being sick and that is why the EKRE does not support it. Surprising, but understandable. But, friends, this is not really an aspect of a weather dispute. This is the management of the public health crisis, and here these differences should be put aside and taken as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U439	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U440	Good manager! Colleagues! Look, if you're driving a car, you're driving a car, but not a woman or a friend from the passenger seat. And so it is now that we drive, even though no one is worse, those who do not sit above the driver are not worse, dumber, not that they have no good ideas, on the contrary, people are divided more or less equally everywhere. But the rumors that this budget is shameful, irresponsible, going the other way, where friends are not needed, are now running us and you are in the passenger seat or in the back seat. It's an introduction after listening to all of this, where we end up in destruction, and so on. But I'd like to talk about something that should be common to all of us. And I'm not talking about national defence, I'm talking about demographics. I've been going through the thick 400-page documents of the last seven or eight state budgets last week, and I'd like to share something with you here. While in 2017 the creation of a support network for new immigrants was discussed in depth, for the first time in this next year's budget, Estonia is spoken of as a nation state that Estonia is a cohesive and inclusive society with a sustainable population. I'm not going to describe it for long. Indeed, most of the population policy is under the Ministry of the Interior, but individual parts are under the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Culture. Internal security is the main activity of the Ministry of the Interior, but it is precisely this year that the other side, the population and the connected society, has also emerged there. I will not name all the sub-programmes through which attempts are made to achieve the preservation of the nation state and the Estonian people throughout the ages. The compass for this movement is the "Development Plan for a People's and a coherent society 2021 to 2030," which we have discussed on several occasions in our committee and which describes how and with what activities to support the sustainability of the Estonian people and achieve greater coherence in society. Indeed, the money that goes on the demographic side of the country, if there are no Estonian people, may be asked why all of this is needed, the whole budget, these billions, is not very large. The Ministry of the Interior budget, which is about 400 million, has just over 20 million. There are 7,7 million more for integration in the Ministry of Culture. So in fact, this amount is relatively small and should be much higher in the future. But the important thing is, this is what I wanted to say here right now, that the movement is happening and it has started in the right direction. What should these measures be, and where and how will we get to? It will be under discussion in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U441	Would the waitress like an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U442	Yeah, a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U443	More than a couple, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U444	Indeed, this development plan for the population and a coherent society offers a wide range of indicators. It can be clearly said that these meters are not yet very clear. It cannot be accepted, for example, that the share of third births should increase by only 0.3% in the next 10 years or that the relative poverty of children should decrease by only 0.2% or that the share of young people whose parents have not divorced or broken up remains at 60% in the next 10 years. But it's enough. In short, I think that this budget is a perfectly normal budget. As Mr Ossinovski said earlier here, indeed, there is not much space in the budget. Perhaps it is also important, and it is important for many, that it is not very easy to understand this budget. We even made a budget understanding support group and the National Audit Office has dealt with it for a long time, so I think we're going that way. So for now, you can say that the budget is what it is in the middlefinish. I think it's a good budget, but you have to make a lot of effort to understand him, to say quite politely. But in a few years, I think the picture will be completely different. Just as at the time, when the budget of the Estonian state was very simple: money is money, money is not how much there is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U445	Thank you. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U446	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, There are actually quite a lot of good things in this budget. They've been talked about many times here today. I would really like to acknowledge with this budget that it has been realised that the Estonian health care system needs additional resources. For something, this crisis has been good. This has been a topic that has been raised for years by the Social Democrats, a topic that has been, figuratively expressing, pushed under the carpet with a shoe nose. The last major and more comprehensive decision was to serve as Minister of Evgeny Ossinovski when the health care system received substantial additional funding. Fortunately, the budget for the new year will allocate additional resources to the sickness fund. In this sense, it can really be understood that this is a crisis budget. There are also things in the budget that I am sure have gotten there as a result of quite thorough social pressure, but that does not reduce their value. R &amp; D reaching 1% of GDP is a major step. I'm sure I appreciate the money being there. Personally, many investment decisions concerning sports and cultural objects are sympathetic to me, although there are things in this area that could be criticised, such as the freezing of the wages of cultural workers. But there is also a very nice thing that has taken another step forward. At one time, as a minister, I had the opportunity to fight for teaching the Estonian language houses and the Estonian language, especially for adults and those with other domestic or native languages, in order to develop a much more systematic approach. The fact that there is, as Isamaa said, additional money found on their initiative, and that I believe, is very sympathetic. There I recognize the good old Fatherland, who, in a friendly and kind way, is really trying to stand up for the Estonian language and mind. Sadly, most of the things they do in this government are not always so kind and good old Fatherland. But I must agree with those who have said that it is indeed very difficult to understand what is the story of this budget, what it is telling us, or what are the priorities. I guess she's just a pot of potion. Perhaps the budgets of times of crisis must be such pot roasts. But perhaps it is also because the money has been infinitely in the hands of the people, and it has been tried, above all, to get something tokened out of its programme, but it has not been acted on so much as to look at how to overcome the health crisis and how the effects of the economic crisis will have to be overcome. What I really don't like about this budget is not looking behind this crisis. It is not to be seen that, even in times of crisis, we must continue with the activities that are essential for our country to develop, for society to last. The fact that the rise in teachers' salaries has been thrown overboard, as well as the rise in the pay of kindergarten teachers, is certainly a part of it. Not to mention the nurses we need to give full credit to in this crisis. Similarly, a nursing home so that people who are really in trouble and need a nursing home can receive it. This is particularly important in the face of the crisis. And what I don't understand at all is that in this situation... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U447	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U448	... where the international supply chains that have worked so far are disrupted and we should think more than ever about getting our food in Estonia and Estonian farmers being as strong as possible, we see how farmers are simply shown the place. Their transitional contributions, given the financial possibilities, are simply left unbudgeted for the sake of spite. That's a very bad signal. There's nothing patriotic or national about it. On the contrary. But what is clearly the most acute concern about this budget is that these are already very much talked about sick days today. We have repeatedly tried to draw the coalition's attention to this issue. There has so far been no clear answer, although this should have been done a long time ago. This year, it seems, there is no hope at all, but even next year's budget does not provide for these amounts. In addition to all the other arguments, I would ask you, members of the coalition, to imagine, however, what choice this is, which we propose precisely those people who, as a rule, cannot do teleworking and who are often together, those who cannot do teleworking, also have lower salaries of less than EUR 1000. There are a lot of people like that. If they are suggested to show solidarity, do not go to work if you have symptoms, but your income will be over EUR 100 below the EUR 700-800 family budget, then this is not an adequate choice. This is not an adequate solution to actually curb the health crisis, to reduce the effects of the virus in the workplace and the so-called workplace monsters. Some time ago, Tarmo Soomere, President of the Academy of Sciences, said when he was asked what we are learning from this crisis, that we are learning what unfortunately all crises show. All crises have one thing: the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. The role of society is to reduce this polarisation as much as possible. Non-reimbursement of the first sick days is part of how the poor get poorer, and that is deeply unfair. In that sense, I may not really agree with Evgen. Yes, this is not a world-viewed issue on the health issue. But on the issue of coping, the respected coalition, it's a world-view issue. You have promised to stand up for the weak, but you will not. Please make that decision! And since you're thinking, unfortunately, we have to give you more time to think. We do not want to do this, but the social democrats must, unfortunately, take breaks today in the process of dealing with the state budget before voting on all the very necessary amendments, which I touched on here. Please think about the state of public health of the sick days and those affected. Perhaps you can talk to your representatives in the government so that they come up with a clear proposal on how to solve this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U449	Thank you. Jevgeni Ossinovski, the line? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U450	Thank you! Mr Ernits mentioned my name, and I would like to respond to his speech, rather to the beginning of his speech, where he compared the role of the opposition and the coalition to driving, that his party is now driving, that opposition representatives are in the passenger seat, and that is why it must be accepted. It was probably the idea that we could also avoid making proposals on the state budget, because nothing depends on us anyway, and the majority of Parliament that form the government coalition has a mandate to do so. This very much reminded me of the position of former EKRE leader Mart Järvik, who compared political leadership and bus driving, in which he had more experience than political leadership. He said the exact same thing: one leads and the others throw up in the back. I think that this is actually one of the biggest problems of Estonian politics, when those people who are gaining power and that is not the case for the first time start to think that they have the temporary honour and the right to shape the fate of the Estonian state more than other political parties represented in the Riigikogu, because they have the exclusive right and the substantive and sensible proposals that come from society or opposition should not be taken into account. Once, I remember, in my first composition seven years ago, it was Valdo Randpere who represented the coalition when the agreement with the trade unions was violated and the compensation was cancelled if the parties agreed to leave. Randpere answered the question why this is being done, but we have a mandate, we are in the majority and we can do what we want. I think it is not really good, it is a bottleneck of Estonian political culture. I think that we should all work together, however, to ensure that the good of the Estonian state and people is better guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U451	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U452	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have heard both good and bad words about the budget, both praiseful and lazy words, as well as about coalition parties. But the budget is a budget, it has to be adopted. Today's budget is a budget for times of crisis; we cannot get past it or around it. We are involved in the pandemic and the economic crisis. In this respect, I would say that this budget takes account of all these challenges in the best way. Money will be received in all areas, whether it be economic, social, educational, national defence, whatever. It is clearly a budget that prevents our economy from collapsing in the crisis and prevents a huge shortage of labour. In this respect, it is in a positive sense in the budget for the survival of the budget. This is unlike the previous crisis that we went through under the leadership of the Reform Party, when the budget was attacked by crocodiles, which led to a third reduction in the revenue base of our municipalities, thousands and thousands of companies going bankrupt, and tens and tens of thousands of people lost their jobs. Today, we have travelled abroad for more than a hundred thousand people. The purpose of this budget is precisely to prevent it, to keep our economy alive, to keep and protect our people. You're saying this budget is populist, it's not realistic, and so on. After all, we have all looked at the amendments proposed by the opposition. There are good suggestions. Indeed, I do. But there are also populist and bad proposals. Worst of all, you haven't taken practically any of the proposals, perhaps just a few of them seriously. You haven't worked hard to find a source of cover. Behind almost every proposal is the "government reserve fund." Well, I'm sorry, there's no money in the government reserve fund for hundreds of millions of euros. If you really wanted to implement your proposals, if you had seriously thought about them, you would still have looked at the budget in depth and indeed looked for the sources of cover that are real. Today, unfortunately, these proposals are based only on mist stories. Nevertheless, as I said, the budget is very good, it protects and preserves our country and our people, and it will take us forward to the future so that we can be sure that we should not be afraid or trembling in front of tomorrow. I call on all of you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U453	Echo Kallas, is it a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U454	A procedural question. If the 20 out of 44 amendments are covered by a reserve, is that the majority or is it all as Mr said here earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U455	It's not a procedural question, it's a mathematical question, I don't have to answer that. But it seems that there is no further wish for negotiation. We can go to the examination of the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, the first amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U456	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U457	We are going to vote on this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Pohlak, is this a procedural question? No, it's not. [[A voice from the hall.]] Can't you hear me? Can you hear me now? And Mr. Grünthal, is it a procedural question? A microphone for Mr. Grünthal, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U458	Thank you, Mr President. I have such a request that if any proposals are made, such as a vote on the amendment, it should be asked to do so with a very loud and clear voice. Now Kaja Kallas said something about the microphone, but even despite the emptiness of the hall and its reverence, I didn't hear anything back here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U459	Thank you. All colleagues heard: proposals with a loud and clear voice. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the first amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U460	54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U461	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment, which would make the average pension exempt from income tax, to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U462	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the second amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U463	33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 55 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U464	Thank you. I ask for this proposal, which will enable municipalities to get a fair share of the money for road investment, to vote, and not only vote, but also support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U465	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U466	40 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 55 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U467	Thank you. This proposal increases the levelling-out fund of local governments at the expense of relatively subjective roofing money. I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U468	I shall put to the vote the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U469	36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 55 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fifth amendment, tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Kalvi Tõvi, Indrek Saar, Riina Sikkut and Jevgeni Ossinovski. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U470	Yeah. I ask for this very sympathetic amendment to be voted on. Before that, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break so that we can all think about how to organise sickness benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U471	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U472	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the fifth amendment tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Indrek Saar, Riina Sikkut and Jevgeni Ossinovski. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U473	15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 56 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment tabled by Mr Pikhof, Mr Saar, Mr Juske, Mr Raik, Mr Ossinovski, Mr Kütt and Mr Kaljulaid. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U474	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on. And so that you can all think about both this and the 40th amendment on compensation for sick days, I will take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U475	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U476	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the sixth amendment tabled by members of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Kütt and Raimond Kaljulaid. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U477	17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 54 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The seventh amendment, made by the members of the Riigikogu Kalvi Kõvi, Heljo Pikhof, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Küttt, Raimond Kaljulaid and Lauri Läänemets. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U478	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I ask you to vote on this. And so that everyone can reflect on both this and the 40th amendment, which concerns sick days and which helps us to emerge from the crisis, I will take a ten-minute break on behalf of our group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U479	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U480	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the seventh amendment tabled by Kalvi Kõvi, Heljo Pikhof, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Küttt, Raimond Kaljulaid and Lauri Läänemets. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U481	21 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 55 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U482	Thank you. I would like to ask for this very good amendment, which concerns the establishment of a centre for applied research, to vote and to support it at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U483	I shall put to the vote the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U484	37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 55 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The ninth amendment tabled by Mr Aivar Sõerd, member of the Riigikogu. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U485	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U486	I shall put to the vote the ninth amendment tabled by Mr Sõerd. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U487	35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 54 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. The tenth amendment tabled by Mr Hard. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U488	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I ask for this amendment, which will result in the purchase of thermal cameras in Estonian schools, to vote! Before the vote, I would like to take a ten-minute break so that you can think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U489	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U490	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the tenth amendment tabled by Kalvi Tõvi. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U491	8 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 59 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 11, tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Kalvi Tõud and Jevgeni Ossinovski. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U492	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on. Since, as we know, the Coalition does not yet have an agreement on compensation for sick days, we will also take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U493	Thank you. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U494	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the 11th amendment tabled by Kalvi Tõud and Jevgeni Ossinovski. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U495	17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 54 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12, tabled by members of the Riigikogu Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Jüri Jaanson, Signe Riisalo, Mart Võrguship, Yoko Alender, Kalle Laanet, Riina Sikkut, Helmen Kütt, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Liina Kersna, Kristen Michal, Johannes Kert, Kaja Kallas, Heidy Purga and Signe Kivi. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U496	Thank you. I ask for this excellent amendment, which makes it possible for school psychologists to have a professional year, to vote and to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U497	I shall put the 12th amendment to the vote. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U498	42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 13 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission is not taken into account. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U499	Thank you. I would like to ask for this proposal, which would allow for a single Estonian-language education, to be voted on! And I am asking for support for this proposal as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U500	I shall put to the vote the 13th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U501	34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 14 tabled by Riigikogu members Heidy Purga, Signe Kivi, Yoko Alender, Signe Riisalo, Vilja Toomast, Liina Kersna, Urve Tiidus, Johannes Kert, Mart Võrguship, Jüri Jaanson and Kristen Michal. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U502	Thank you. Four out of five parliamentary groups have declared the target of increasing the percentage of teachers' pay relative to the average wage in Estonia. This amendment provides an opportunity to do so. So I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U503	I shall put the 14th amendment to the vote. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U504	41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 52 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 15 tabled by Ms Kivi. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U505	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote and support for this amendment on teachers' salaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U506	I shall put to the vote the 15th amendment tabled by Mrs Kivi. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U507	40 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 52 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16, tabled by Riigikogu members Heljo Pikhof, Katri Raik, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Kütt, Raimond Kaljulaid and Lauri Läänemets. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U508	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on. And since we still do not have the knowledge that the coalition has reached an agreement on sickness days compensation, we will take a ten-minute break so that they can discuss it calmly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U509	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U510	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 16. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U511	12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 53 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 17 tabled by Mr Juske and Ms Sikkut. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U512	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on. And since we still have no information on whether the government coalition has come to terms with compensation for sick days, I ask you for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U513	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U514	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 17 tabled by Jaak Juske and Riina Sikkut. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U515	12 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 56 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 18 tabled by Mr Kert, Mr Laanet, Mr Milling, Mr Jaanson. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Nineteen... Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U516	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for this amendment to be voted through. [[Voices in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U517	Excuse me? I didn't hear you. Yes, in the Tavi Cloth, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U518	I would just like to point out to the good President that Mr Kert wanted this already on Amendment 18. I would therefore like to put the 18th amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U519	Amendment 18, yes. A microphone for Mr. Grünthal, please. Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U520	Absolutely. Thank you, Mr President. I think that the rules of procedure are a little crooked right now, Mr Johannes Kert can express himself what he wants.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U521	Yeah. Taavi Kõivas also has the right to put this amendment to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 18. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U522	38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 52 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let's move on, Amendment 19. Yes, Amendment 19, tabled by members of the Riigikogu Johannes Kert, Kalle Laanet, Madis Milling and Jüri Jaanson. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U523	Thank you, Mr President. I would ask that Amendment 19 be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U524	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 19. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U525	38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 51 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 20 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U526	Thank you. This proposal will free up sources of cover for substantive activities. So I am asking for this proposal to be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U527	I shall put to the vote the 20th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U528	42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 54 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 21 tabled by Mr Kruuse. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U529	Thank you. As no agricultural support could be found in the 2021 budget, it would make sense to vote and support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U530	Thank you. Was that a proposal to vote? Got it. I shall put to the vote the 21st amendment tabled by Mr Kruuse. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U531	39 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 22, tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Kalvi Tõud, Indrek Saar and Lauri Läänemets. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U532	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on. Since there are no announcements from public channels or reliable persons that the Coalition has reached an agreement on sickness days compensation, we will take a ten-minute break so that you can think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U533	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U534	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 22, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U535	16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, 54 against. The proposal was not supported. The next amendment, which is 23. This has been done by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U536	Thank you. There is probably no dispute that the tourism sector has been hit the most during the current economic downturn. This specific amendment will allow for a slight relaxation of the situation in the tourism sector. So please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U537	I shall put to the vote the 23rd amendment tabled by the Group of the Reform Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U538	44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, 51 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 24 has been tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Indrek Saar, Riina Sikkut and Jevgeni Ossinovski. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Rocks Hard. Javier in clothing, please! Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U539	Thank you. In the interests of time savings, I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U540	We don't have to vote again, do we? [[Voices in the hall.]] What? Listen, dear friends, we already voted on this. I think that... Then I put it to the vote. Yes, Javier!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U541	This is a proposal launched by four ambassadors on list 24. And in order to save all of us time, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U542	23rd or 24th? [[Voices in the hall.]] Now I don't understand what... Oh, okay. Got it. Amendment 24 will be put to the vote by the Reform Party. Please! Okay. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U543	That's a very good suggestion for Javier. The Group of the Social Democratic Party is also asking for this amendment to be voted on. But since no information has come to our attention that the coalition has reached an agreement on compensation for sick days, we will take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U544	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U545	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote the 24th amendment tabled by Mr Kalvi Tõud, Mr Saar, Ms Sikkut and Mr Ossinovski. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U546	15 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, 54 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 25, tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Heljo Pikhof, Jaak Juske, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Raimond Kaljulaid. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U547	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on. Continuingly, since we do not have any information that there have been developments within the coalition with the benefit of sick days, I ask you for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U548	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U549	Honourable colleagues, I will put to the vote the 25th amendment tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Heljo Pikhof, Jaak Juske, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Raimond Kaljulaid. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U550	There were 14 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, against 54. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 26, Kalvi Tõllt, Indrek Saaret, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Lauri from the West Forest. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U551	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on. Since we still do not know what the Coalition thinks about compensation for sick days, I ask you for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U552	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U553	Honourable colleagues, I will put to the vote the 26th amendment tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Indrek Saar, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Lauri Läänemets. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U554	The proposal received 16 votes in favour and 54 members of the Riigikogu voted against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 27, tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Kütt, Raimond Kaljulaid and Lauri Läänemets. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U555	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment. Dear members of the coalition, ten minutes so that you can reach an agreement on compensation for sick days.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U556	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U557	Honourable colleagues, I will vote on the 27th amendment by Kalvi Tõvi, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Küttt, Raimond Kaljulaid and Lauri Läänemets. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U558	10 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, 53 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 28 made by Mr Hard. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U559	I ask for this amendment to be voted on. And since there is still no information available to us that the coalition has reached some kind of agreement on compensation for sick days, I would also ask for a ten-minute break so that they can discuss this matter calmly!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U560	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U561	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 28th amendment, which has been made by Mr Hard and which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U562	Eight members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, 57 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 29, made by Aivar Sõerd and Yoko Alender. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U563	This is an amendment that takes back taxpayers' money placed in Eesti Energia. Eesti Energia is able to borrow money from the financial markets. Taxpayer money cannot support the production of fossil fuels, which is contrary to climate objectives. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U564	Honourable colleagues, I will put to the vote the 29th amendment tabled by Mr Sõerd and Mr Alender. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U565	32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 53 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 30, made by Mart Võrguship. The Governing Commission's opinion is that this should be disregarded. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U566	I ask you to vote on this proposal, which would give local authorities EUR 100 million in favourable loans from the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U567	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 30th amendment tabled by the Mart Võrguship. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U568	32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, 51 against. The proposal was not supported. One was neutral too. Amendment 31, made by Jaak Juske and Riina Sikkut. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U569	Thank you. I ask for this very good amendment to be voted on. And still, since we have no knowledge that the coalition has reached an agreement on compensation for sick days, I ask you for a ten-minute break!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U570	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U571	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 31, which has been tabled by Mr Juske and Mrs Sikk, and which has been neglected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U572	Nine members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, 55 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 32, made by Kalle Laane, Hanno Pevkur, Ants Laaneots, Johannes Kert and Madis Milling. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U573	Thank you. This proposal will make it possible to raise the wages of the rescuers. I am asking for this proposal to be voted without a break and I am asking for support for this proposal as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U574	I shall put to the vote the 32nd amendment tabled by Kalle Laane, Hanno Pevkur, Ants Laaneots, Johannes Kert and Madis Milling. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U575	34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 52 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 33, made by Kalvi Tõud, Heljo Pikhof, Indrek Saar, Katri Raik, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Kütt and Raimond Kaljulaid. The position of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U576	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on in a recess. We propose that during the break, the coalition think about compensation for sick days. Please recess for ten minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U577	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U578	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 33rd amendment tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Heljo Pikhof, Indrek Saar, Katri Raik, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Küttt and Raimond Kaljulaid. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U579	20 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, 54 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 34, made by Kalvi Tõud, Heljo Pikhof, Katri Raik, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Kütt, Raimond Kaljulaid and Lauri Läänemets. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U580	Thank you. I ask for this amendment, which the elderly of Estonia very much expect, to vote and to definitely support! Before that, I'll take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U581	How much? Ten?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U582	Ten.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U583	Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U584	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 34th amendment tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Heljo Pikhof, Katri Raik, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Küttt, Raimond Kaljulaid and Lauri Läänemets. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U585	Nine members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this amendment, 52 against. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 35, made by Mr Läänemets. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U586	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment. But before that, I wish...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U587	Shh!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U588	... ten minutes of break so that the coalition can still reconsider.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U589	Ten minutes break. That's right. Only the head of the group can take a break. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U590	Thank you. Before this vote, I ask for a ten-minute break so that the coalition can reconsider how compensation for sick days could still happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U591	I couldn't hear it very well, but I suppose I understood what the proposal was. Ten minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U592	Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the vote the 35th amendment tabled by Mr Läänemets, which the commission has decided not to take into account. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U593	Eight members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, 57 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 36, made by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Jüri Jaanson, Signe Riisalo, Mart Võrguship, Yoko Alender, Kalle Laanet, Riina Sikkut, Helmen Küttt, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Liina Kersna, Kristen Michal, Johannes Kert, Kaja Kallas, Heidy Purga and Signe Kivi. The Steering Committee has decided not to take this into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U594	Thank you. I would like to ask for this amendment, which concerns the children's helpline, to be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U595	I shall put to the vote the 36th amendment by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Jüri Jaanson, Signe Riisalo, Mart Võrguship, Yoko Alender, Kalle Laane, Riina Sikkut, Helmen Kütt, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Liina Kersna, Kristen Michal, Johannes Kert, Kaja Kallas, Heidy Purga and Signe Kivi. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U596	39 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this amendment, 51 against. The proposal was not supported. 37th amendment, made by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Jüri Jaanson, Signe Riisalo, Mart Võrguship, Yoko Alender, Kalle Laanet, Riina Sikkut, Helmen Kütt, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Liina Kersna, Kristen Michal, Johannes Kert, Kaja Kallas, Heidy Purga and Signe Kivi. This proposal has been decided not to be taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. [[Voices in the hall.]] Yeah. Let's take it back. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U597	Good manager! I would have had quite the same proposal. The content of this proposal is the creation of a childcare service in Läänemaa. I am asking for this proposal to be voted on and certainly to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U598	I will now put to the vote the 37th amendment, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U599	39 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, 53 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 38, made by Kristen Michal, Aivar Sõerd, Vilja Toomas, Signe Riisalo and Johannes Kert. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U600	Thank you. This proposal is specifically a correction for errors, because both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance said at the time of the transfer of the same budget or at first reading that there was also money in it for the new hospital in Tallinn. But we looked, we looked the other way, and we didn't have the other way. If you vote in favour of this proposal, the first money will be paid into the budget for the Tallinn Hospital. So I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal and support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U601	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 38, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U602	37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, with 50 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 39, made by Ms Riisalo, Ms Võrguship, Mr Laane, Mr Alender, Mr Tiidus, Mr Toomas, Ms Kersna, Mr Kert, Ms Kivi, Mr Jaanson and Mr Michal. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U603	Thank you. I would like to ask for a vote and support for this amendment, which concerns the rise in the salaries of nurses.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U604	I shall put to the vote the 39th amendment, which has been tabled by a number of dignified members of the Riigikogu. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U605	40 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, 54 against. The proposal was not supported. 40th amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U606	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment, which supports the employee from the first day of sickness. Since the coalition has so far been incompetent in formulating and implementing the proposal, I would also like to ask for a ten-minute break before the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-18_U607	Ten minutes break.
