ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the Monday session of the 17th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of passing on drafts and enquiries. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Reform Party of the Group and the ambassadors of the Isamaa, I present a draft law amending the Law on Place Names Act. This is a very short draft, its idea comes from the vital fact that some local governments still have street names and place names dedicated to persons who have fought against the formation of the Republic of Estonia. There is a section on dedication names in the local name law and it says that the names should be in accordance with the Estonian cultural history and history. These names are against the meaning of the law, but they have nevertheless not been changed and there is currently no mechanism in Estonia to bring these place names into line with the law. This bill fills that hole in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U3	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to report to Finance Minister Martin Helme. We all talk a lot about Europe's green deal lately, we are talking about climate-neutral Estonia, etc. At the same time, there are a lot of things that we have not done very clearly and which would be much easier to do. I am talking about a substance such as sulphur hexafluoride, which Eesti Energia, under the direction of the Minister of Finance, uses relatively widely as an insulating gas in power switches and measuring transformers. The ban on the use of this gas as an insulation gas has begun in England. There is no sign of this in Estonia so far and it would be nice if the Minister of Finance, as the general meeting of Eesti Energia, launched a legislative initiative on this subject. There is a lack of accounting for the use of this gas in Estonia because less than 6 kg of sulphur hexafluoride, or SF6, are not counted at all, but it is also known that, for example, in all wind generators, sulphur hexafluoride is used and there is about 5 kg of sulphur hexafluoride. It is 22,800 times more powerful than CO2 and remains in the atmosphere for over 3,000 years. We shouldn't shoot ourselves in the leg. I believe that it is appropriate to ask such questions to the Minister for Finance representing the general meeting of Eesti Energia, the owner's representative, and I hope that he will give them constructive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U5	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U6	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I have the honour to hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U7	For the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U8	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will present two draft decisions of the Riigikogu today. First, 'State guarantee under Article 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 establishing temporary support to alleviate unemployment risk in the event of an outbreak of COVID-19'. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Secondly, the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the operation of the International Maritime Security Coalition Sentinel'. In its proceedings in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik. Both drafts have been transmitted electronically to the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts and one inquiry. The Management Board decides on their future procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are conducting a presence check. There are 88 members of the Riigikogu, missing 13. Next, we will be able to endorse this week's agenda. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U10	Thank you. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, I have the proposal to move item 2 of the Thursday of this week, the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of Local Government and the Law on the Financial Management of the Local Government Unit, initiated by the Monetary Commission, to the 14th item on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U11	I guess it's the 15th. Yeah, yeah, 14th really. So, along with this amendment, I will vote on the approval of the 17th working week agenda for the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 88 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U12	Let us go, ladies and gentlemen, to today's first item on the agenda, which is the first reading of draft law 206 amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the speech chair to Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige! As usual, the presentation of the initiator or his representative will be 20 minutes after the presentation of the representative of the commission and the members of the Riigikogu may ask up to two oral questions of a length of one minute for both speakers. Please, Minister of Social Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U13	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is indeed a pleasure to present a draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act. The aim is to increase flexibility in the overall unemployment system and to provide the unemployed with greater social protection if they become unemployed. The aim of the law is to ensure that people can cope adequately during periods of unemployment, which at the same time would not create a 'unemployment trap' and in any case motivate the unemployed to return to the labour market. The draft proposes four major changes, which I will then introduce one by one. Firstly, the draft allows temporary employment during registered unemployment, i.e. taking "job breaks." The current law does not provide for such an option, and when you start working, you will cease to be unemployed and the compensation will cease immediately. The draft would allow temporary employment on the basis of a contract of employment, a contract of employment, a contract of command or any other service, or a public service of up to five calendar days per month, during the period of unemployment on account. A person may temporarily work for a maximum period of 12 calendar months during a period of 24 months during which he or she is unemployed during a given calendar month and the remuneration paid for each period of temporary employment during a given calendar month may not exceed 40% of the minimum rate of unemployment benefit for the previous calendar year. For example, in 2020 this would mean that an unemployed person can earn up to 216 euros in gross pay per month. It is precisely to maintain the motivation for moving to sustainable employment that this restriction on pay has been put in place. It should in any case be lower than the current minimum rate of pay, together with the minimum rate of unemployment benefit or, for example, the minimum rate of unemployment benefit. Otherwise, there could be situations where it is economically more beneficial for a person to be in work and to take job breaks and not to go to full-time work, especially in the low-paid sector. But our aim, of course, is, as I pointed out earlier, that the unemployed always preferred full-time work whenever possible, and that this kind of work experience during the unemployment period is, however, a temporary solution to ensure that they are better able to cope, to ensure that they are connected to the labour market, to do work. However, the aim must be to return to full employment. The unemployment fund must be immediately informed of temporary work by the unemployed person on the job in order to avoid situations where the unemployment fund ceases to be unemployed because, for example, according to the employment register, the person has taken up work, but there is no precise information about the duration of the employment relationship as well as about the financial contributions. Unemployment shall cease on account if temporary employment exceeds five calendar days in a month or 12 months in a calendar month of 24 calendar months or if the remuneration received exceeds 40% of the previous year's minimum wage. In such cases, the period of unemployment shall end from the first day of taking up employment, where, as I indicated earlier, the number of days allowed in the form of temporary employment or the number of months, or the remuneration has exceeded the 40% minimum wage. Allowing temporary employment has a positive impact on the state budget and the income of the unemployment fund, according to calculations and forecasts, as each salary is known to be covered by social security contributions, unemployment insurance contributions, funded pension contributions, as well as income tax if the total unemployment benefit and work income received exceed the income tax-free minimum. Assuming that 4.2% of all unemployed people are employed in the short term, the previous statistics are known, the revenue for the state budget would be 1.4 million euros in 2020 and 2.8 million euros in 2021. These amendments and provisions are planned, if Parliament so permits, to enter into force on 1 September of this year. Of course, we are now in a new labour market situation, or we may be able to take these figures with a certain scepticism. The revenue side may not be so great because we do not know what temporary employment opportunities will be in this period, but in any case it is a positive budgetary impact in financial terms. It does not increase the cost of the state, but it does increase tax revenues and also the amount that comes from the economy because of its work. Another major amendment to this draft is that the calculation of unemployment benefit is specified in the situation where the insured person worked in Estonia before becoming unemployed and before working outside Estonia, in another EEA country or in the Swiss Confederation. This applies, above all, to people who are registered as unemployed, who have worked in Estonia for less than 12 months before becoming unemployed, but before working outside Estonia in one of the countries of the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation. So far, the amount of unemployment benefit for these people has been calculated on the basis of the remuneration earned in Estonia after working abroad, the last period of which puts them in an unequal position with all other persons who worked in Estonia or in a third country, whose unemployment benefit is calculated taking into account earlier periods of employment, if necessary. I will give you one concrete example: a person has worked long in Estonia, then for a short time in some of the countries of the European Economic Area and lastly, before becoming unemployed in Estonia again for a short time. Let's say that the person first worked in Estonia for more than ten years, then three years in Finland and the last three months in Estonia. If he is currently unemployed, according to the current law, only those last three months' wages will be taken into account for the calculation of the benefit and divided by 270 for the purpose of determining the corresponding seniority. But all of this earlier period of 10 years of Estonia's existence is excluded from the calculation. According to the draft law, in such a situation, the fees paid to the insured before taking up employment in another Member State will also be taken into account in the case of a specific case, both the last three months of working in Estonia and the previous ten-year period. In any case, this increases the person's remuneration. The amendment is also intended to enter into force, if Parliament deems it right, from 1 September 2020. The third fundamental change is the change in the amount of unemployment benefit, both in the context of unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit. The replacement rate of unemployment benefit for the first 100 days will rise from 50% to 60%, then 40% as it is today, and the replacement rate of unemployment benefit will rise from 35% to 50% of the previous year's minimum wage. There is a major problem in Estonia with insufficient social protection for the unemployed, which means that very many unemployed will inevitably fall into poverty. According to Statistics Estonia, just over half of all unemployed people lived in relative poverty and almost 17% in absolute poverty in 2018. So, unfortunately, the existing unemployment benefits and the unemployment insurance system as a whole do not guarantee people's economic livelihood during the job search period. Compared to the European Union average, Estonia has low substitution rates for unemployment insurance benefits. For example, according to Statistics Estonia, the absolute poverty threshold of 215 euros and the relative poverty threshold of 569 euros has already been referred to in 2018 and the benefits have not been sufficient to ensure that people can cope adequately. We will also look at the conclusions of the Committee of Independent Experts to assess compliance with the European Social Charter. They have also pointed out that Estonia does not actually meet the requirements of Article 12 of the Charter. The minimum amount of unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit are too low and neither keeps people from falling into poverty. As I was referring to, according to the draft, we would increase the replacement rate of unemployment benefit from 35% to 50%. This specific change is planned to take effect from 1 January 2021, as unemployment benefit is known to be a state budget subsidy and is also provided for in the state budget. Otherwise, the 2020 budget should have been taken apart again. And when we talk about the known minimum wage, unemployment benefit would then rise from EUR 189 in force in the new year to EUR 292, probably above the absolute poverty threshold in 2020 and 2021. In the same way, it would rise above the maintenance minimum of EUR 221 per month last year, 2019. When comparing the amount of unemployment benefit with the amount of so-called "job breaks," even if combined, it remains below the minimum rate of pay, which in turn ensures that the recipient of the unemployment benefit who is able to work on a temporary basis is still more reasonable to go to full employment. There will not be a situation where a person would be more useful, as I referred to earlier, instead of working full time, to choose such an interim solution in the form of a combination of temporary work and unemployment benefit. At the same time, it will certainly help to avoid an unequal labour market situation. The exact impact on the reduction of income support is not clear, as much depends on household structure, household members' incomes, housing costs and very many other criteria, of course, on the overall development of the economy in the future. In any case, if the amount of unemployment benefit is estimated without other benefits, including income support, the daily rate will be increased by a reduction in the distance from both the limit of absolute and relative poverty if the 270-day unemployment benefit is granted. The cost of increasing the replacement rate of unemployment benefit from the previous year's minimum wage to 50% will increase the cost of the state budget by EUR 9,8 million in 2021. As I pointed out earlier, the draft amends the amount of unemployment benefit, i.e. instead of 50% for the first 100 days, it would be 60% of the average wage of the employee, and will continue to maintain the level of 40% from the first day. The principles for the calculation of the basis shall not change. So-called generous compensation would ensure a slightly higher replacement income, i.e. a slightly smoother transition from working to working life, which could inevitably last longer in times of economic crisis than any of us would like. At the same time, however, a sufficiently clear reduction in the substitution rate from 60 to 40% later, i.e. on day 101, clearly supports the transition from unemployment to employment. Neither 60% nor 40% compensation is likely to be enough to motivate people to become unemployed. This 40% today, as I referred to, will apply from day 101, probably the longer part of the person's unemployment period. The specific law is planned to enter into force on 1 August of this year. The additional costs would be 13.2 million this year and 13.2 million next year. The main source of cover is the budget of the unemployment fund, and we have also considered the possibility of using European Union funds, such as the Social Fund, to cover the costs of the whole package more successfully, to bring them forward in order to ensure that they provide a range of active labour market services. This would leave more available funds to pay benefits to the unemployment fund budget. The sum of the amounts over two years, 2020 to 2021 is broadly balanced in terms of the budget, together with the so-called European Union funds that have been brought forward. The exact figures naturally depend on the unemployment rate, depending on how many people will use temporary employment opportunities, and on other indicators that are impossible to predict quite precisely until the end of 2021. The fourth amendment, which is lower in financial terms but also, in substance, important, is a change in the conditions for entitlement to unemployment benefit. For example, a case where a person has been unemployed for some time but then works for a short period of time, for example, on seasonal work and becomes unemployed again, i.e. a repeated application for benefits. Under the current law, the calculation of the period during which the benefit is applied for must begin for the first time on the date on which the benefit is granted. If the person found a job and did not make full use of the unemployment benefit period, the change allows him or her to apply for unemployment benefit repeatedly and receive benefits for days not used in the previous period if he or she becomes unemployed again within 12 months of the end of the unemployment benefit. This moment of expiration of unused days, or system, will become somewhat more flexible. Let me give you a few concrete examples. For example, when, on 10 October, the unemployed person was granted an unemployment benefit for 360 calendar days, assuming he or she has more than ten years of service. If a person should now decide on 1 July 2020, i.e. the end of that benefit, to accept seasonal work on a farm, to work there until 30 October 2020, the current system, when the person ends this period of employment, is 12 months after his previous benefit was granted and he would no longer be entitled to unemployment benefit. The time that he would still have had to use, he actually worked and by that his earlier period so-called was over. In the event of a change, the so-called 'freezing' would take place in the calculation of this benefit and the 12-month period would begin to run from the date of termination of the unemployment benefit. In a specific example, this means that the unemployed person can apply for unemployment benefit until 30 June 2021. A person has the possibility to temporarily freeze the unemployment benefit remaining in the previous period of 360 calendar days, to do some seasonal work, such as three or four months, and then return to that benefit, to receive it for the days he actually intended and missed. In any case, this will also encourage the seasonal work of unemployed people in economic terms and also in terms of supporting their work habits. The budgetary impact may be positive, but maybe slightly negative. It all depends again on how much it is used. But basically, the change is a minor one, rather a signicant one, and it is precisely to motivate the unemployed. And I'm sure it'll help you find the seasonal workers. This specific amendment is planned to enter into force on 1 September 2020. That's the end of the review. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U14	Thank you, dear waitress. You really have questions. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U15	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, First of all, I have the wish to acknowledge the draft of the Ministry of Social Affairs for the part that activates people during periods of unemployment and allows them to work. This will certainly reduce the risk of long-term unemployment. We all know that the longer a person is away from the labour market, the greater the risks of long-term unemployment. But the question I have is this. We know that the intention to develop was also meant to help people in economically poorer times less in better times, but it does not appear from this bill. The same increase in benefits-benefits has been maintained and, in terms of the period, everything is the same. Please describe the debate you had in the government. Why was it decided to abandon the idea of differentiated aid in economically worse and better times?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U16	Thank you for your question. Yes, when we talk about Praxis's analysis and the original intention to develop it, they were much more extensive. In addition to what you referred to, there was also the issue of taxation of the self-employed and the members of the management board. There was also, in fact, an even more ambitious plan to increase compensation, and there was also a reference that there could be rates depending on the economic situation or that the government could be entitled, on the basis of some other criteria, by law, to extend or shorten these rates. In the government, we debated this issue, and we also discussed it with the various social partners. There was no real consensus with employers and trade unions, but there was such an attitude that if, for example, this happened by consensus, so that the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, where both trade unions and employers are represented, and the State, or the three parties, are proposing consensus, the government could change such a thing. But if there is no consensus, there is a law rate. Such a proposal was in the air in the meantime, but in discussions at government level, we have come to the conclusion that it is a very fundamental major change that requires a somewhat longer debate. We will certainly come back to this issue, but at the moment it remained to be discussed during the autumn period due to very many other changes. In addition to the question of the self-employed and management board members referred to before, there has actually been a debate as to whether the old-age pension business, who is working at the same time, may be entitled to both benefits and labour market services. The same is the case for certain senior civil servants, who are also not covered by the current unemployment insurance system. So the topics actually remained to be discussed. We have now taken up the joint section, on which there was the greatest consensus between both the social partners and the members of the government. We wanted to move on with this quickly. We will definitely come back to this in the autumn and we will continue to have in-depth discussions, as there have been more proposals. I think that this specific proposal, the introduction of benefits, depends on the economic situation and the situation on the labour market, is a point in the right direction. I mean, not an automatic mechanism, but an opportunity. Perhaps this is something that would, in a sense, provide flexibility and, if necessary, also solidarity and protection, on the other hand, perhaps adds positive motivation to find work more quickly. So in principle, I support it, but at first we decided to come to it in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U17	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Minister for Rural Affairs, Arvo Aller, recommended that our own unemployed people be used for seasonal work in the context of the labour crisis by means of these so-called job breaks. We hear that it is possible to take a piece of work for five days and get a bit over EUR 200 for it. Can you tell me how this could motivate people to go to a very difficult job for five days? We assumed that there was, in fact, a way to work longer. And one of the problems of seasonal work has also been that working in the short term actually makes this process extremely difficult. People change very often, even when they get there. How will this help rural areas in the current crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U19	Thank you for your question. There are actually two different problems here. One is the so-called "work programmes," which are also intended for a longer period, for example, five days a month, but maybe 12 months in a row. This is to do low-load jobs during the period of unemployment, which may be the first step for a particular person to enter full employment. For example, the employer initially employs him at a low cost, they mutually satisfy themselves that the cooperation is suitable for both parties, and at some point a person can go to work full time. The other side, which has also been mentioned, is essentially Amendment 4, which I referred to earlier. If a person is unemployed and does seasonal work in the meantime, he or she would then be entitled to a new unemployment benefit. This is a concrete proposal that could motivate people who are currently on compensation and know, let's say they have three more months left to receive compensation, then in the case of the system in force today, if they go to work for three months, for example, after three months, they will not have it for another three months, so that they will no longer receive compensation. In the case of a new system, it is the case that they work for three months and then it is possible to withdraw it for three months. This could also motivate people to accept occasional or seasonal work, knowing that they will be able to receive a longer amount of compensation on the whole, thereby ensuring a certain higher level of economic security. This change will certainly increase it. More broadly, we have actually discussed a number of issues with the Minister for Rural Affairs and a number of possibilities to support the agricultural sector, particularly the fruit-growing sector, in the form of certain recruitment subsidies, i.e. wage subsidies, which are now under development, we will soon be presenting a specific regulation, or, more broadly, offering labour market services and training. You can also offer mediation services to both Estonian people here and foreign workers, in order to ensure the necessary number of working hands during this difficult period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U20	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U21	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum also takes into account the impact on the state budget, which is on page 26, target group number 2. In the calculation of this additional cost, the number and proportion of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit is expected to increase in the same way as in 2008-2010. Could you explain why you are taking exactly the time after the previous crisis? What is the basis for this? And the second question: how many people could benefit from this change in the law of the workplace? Who are they, and what is this number about?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U22	Thank you for your question. Well, we must assume that Estonia is, unfortunately, facing an economic crisis of comparable size. Unemployment has already risen. At the moment, it is somewhat lower due to the well-started unemployment benefit measures, but it is likely to increase in the near future. These calculations take into account the logic that unemployment will rise to 12.5% in 2020 - this was the spring economic forecast this year. The logic is that the economic crisis and the labour market crisis will certainly not be over in 2021. That's where the numbers are taken from. Exact numbers, as I referred to earlier, are relatively impossible to say. We do not really know the length of the economic crisis; we do not know whether we are going to have another wave of corona virus in the autumn, which could again have some impact on the economy. It certainly doesn't have a positive effect. Hopefully, this will not come, or will be, on a small scale, which would mean that perhaps this is not a long-term recession and we will already see a clear recovery in 2021. Much depends, of course, on the budgetary resources of the European Union as well as on all possible choices made by Estonia, it is also the preparation or non-production of the second supplementary budget, as well as the launch of next year's budget, KredEx, EAS and other measures. One specific percentage to be predicted by 2021 is in any case ungrateful. Maybe the order of magnitude is 10% when we talk about the unemployment ratio. The second question concerned the benefits of so-called "jobs" for how many people could use it. We have taken account of the assumption that around 4% of all unemployed people could work in the short term. Well, it all depends on how many unemployed people are. Today we know that there are about 51000 unemployed people in Estonia, and this figure is unfortunately increasing from day to day. In that case, we would be talking about 2,000 people in the order of magnitude, but if the number of unemployed continues to increase, that number will certainly also increase. This 4% has been taken in view of the number of people we know so far in Estonia who have done various random jobs alongside their main job. It follows from the logic that the unemployed' motivation for occasional work could also be as great as the motivation of a working person, since in both cases it is an extra income.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U23	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U24	Good manager! Good waitress! Don't you think this bite is too small in the current situation? If I think of those strawberry growers waiting for this white Ukrainian ship, even if they get some help from this 50,000-headed army of unemployed people, can you imagine who would actually go into that field for five days for 200 euros? And your analysis shows that tax revenue is 2.8 million a year, but how big are you going to disappear, considering he's going to work hard for that 200 euros for five days, but the other two or three weeks are doing something black? And when it comes to strawberries, the strawberries run out first.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U25	Thank you for your question. The aim of this amendment is certainly not only linked to the current crisis. The point of the amendment was earlier, and the logic, as I described before, is that a person who receives unemployment benefit or unemployment benefit at the same time and pays for his or her temporary employment would not be able to raise more money than a person who is working full time in the same job. That's the logic. There must be no motivation that I'd better come to work for you for five days than a full-time job, because it's more economical for me. The unemployment benefit financed by the Unemployment Insurance Fund and the unemployment benefit financed by the state budget are not intended as an additional income for the person. However, this assumes that the basic status of a person, if you could say so, is currently an unemployed person and is an additional income for casual work that he earns and which gradually helps him to increase his involvement in the labour market. As I said before, we'd rather talk about seasonal work. That's the fourth change. In the meantime, you can stop paying compensation, do seasonal work and then start getting that benefit again. Such a more flexible arrangement. This could certainly be supported. As far as black earning is concerned, the same logic might be said, but he earns even more black if he doesn't officially come to work at all. He shouldn't register that five days if he's trying to serve dirtyly. I think that both employers and employees will hopefully be increasingly responsible in Estonia, and the Tax and Customs Board will certainly do a good job, as well as other national supervisory authorities, in order to avoid such things. And I also referred earlier to the fact that, as far as the strawberry sector is concerned, we are really trying to give some support to the eggs by the unemployment fund's wage support measure. Of course, there is a considerable amount of people in the form of available labour resources and outside workers, and labour needs are more or less covered, but we are also trying to provide assistance to this sector by supporting the further recruitment of the unemployed, precisely in order to make this summer a success.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U26	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U27	Thank you. Mr. Swing! I ask the first question to continue with my colleague's question, he began. This is not the main theme of this draft, but for a number of farmers, however, the main issue is how to get their crops. What do you have to say to them? I get pressured all the time: When can I get help, and what hope? The berries are made, and a number of politicians are just laughing at them. In society as a whole, up to the government, there has been an act of incitement to hatred, as if it were some kind of cula and tax fraud. Say something positive for real! People ask me all the time, and I'm not the only one.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U28	Yeah, absolutely! I'm also being asked by everyone, I think. As I referred to earlier, this bill is not the result of this crisis. This draft has been drawn up on the basis of the Praxis analysis in 2019 and has been the subject of negotiations with the social partners long before the corona virus crisis. In a sense, this topic has been frozen, just like so many other issues during this crisis, as health issues have come into focus. Now we have tried to bring it to this Chamber in good cooperation with the Social Affairs Committee and the entire Riigikogu before the end of the spring session of Parliament, with the idea that it would be possible, in theory, to approve it and to implement certain parts already in August-September. This would certainly also contribute to raising the incomes of people who have recently become unemployed, to ensuring economic security. As far as messages to people are concerned, as I referred to earlier, a number of these changes will certainly also help seasonal workers and businesses dependent on seasonal work. But there are also separate solutions through the unemployment fund. With regard to the measures already in place to recruit unemployed people in certain areas, particularly in Ida-Virumaa and South-East Estonia, we have decided to extend this measure, with somewhat less restrictive conditions. When hiring people who have been unemployed for at least three months into the eggs-growing sector, they will be paid part of their salary during this period. The measure was in force until the end of the year, but will also apply retroactively from 1 June 2020. This is certainly one step that will specifically help this sector. If further measures are needed, the unemployment fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs are ready to do so. But when we talk about the labour crisis, we must first and foremost consider that unemployment is increasing in Estonia. The number of unemployed has increased by over 50,000. Compared to last year's 30000, growth is high, we are already seeing a doubling. In particular, the target group that, unfortunately, has temporarily lost its job must be addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U29	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The increase in unemployment benefit was scheduled for 1 January 2021, so I understood the report. In the Committee on Social Affairs, it was also said that if the government were to come to the Riigikogu with an additional budget, you would be the minister who would raise the topic on the table so that unemployment benefits would rise first. Is that right? Is that what you're planning, and can you tell me if there's another extra budget coming up?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U31	Thank you for your question. Indeed, when we look at the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, it fixes the minimum level of unemployment benefit. The current law states that at least 35% of the previous year's minimum wage. The Government and Parliament are always entitled to pay more, for example, in the State Budget Act of a specific year, to agree that the unemployment benefit rate will be 50%, 60% or even 100% of the minimum wage for the previous year in a given year. It is clear that this cannot be beyond comprehension because, as I referred to earlier, it would automatically raise the question of the motivation of work. However, from 35% to 50%, for example, it is possible and possible to do so in the second supplementary budget procedure this year, if the government and Parliament decide to approve such a budget. There is no such decision yet, as far as I know, but if it were to come, I would certainly propose that we make an increase in unemployment benefit at an early pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U32	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U33	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! We know that it is very important to use different labour market services, especially retraining, during the unemployment period. The President of Eesti Pank referred to this as a very clear recommendation last week in the Riigikogu Hall. However, it is known that labour market services are actually used little in the first three months and more in the first three months. What further measures can the unemployment fund take to screen potential people who tend to stay out of the labour market for longer periods and who do not find a job after three months?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U34	Thank you for your question. It's actually very principled and, let's say, a painful question. Of course, we have been discussing the same issue in the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund for a very long time before the crisis. We have counties where the unemployment rate has remained about twice as high as the Estonian average even when the overall labour market situation was very good and when we saw economic growth for ten years in a row. We have also had employers at the table who have often been somewhat sceptical about even the official unemployment rate and asked what the right unemployment rate is. Such a solidarity or social principle is that it would be good for everyone who wants to have a job to have it. At the same time, the logic of a market economy often says that there must always be a certain number of people out of work. There is also movement between jobs, and so on. However, unfortunately, there are also long-term unemployed people who find it more difficult than easier to find a job over time, as their qualifications lapse, work habits disappear, and this clearly leads to prejudices for employers when they hire such people. This is the target group, which must also be dealt with as a matter of force. Personally, I support this direction of trying to keep these people involved, through both training and keeping them focused in a good way, even when it may seem economically easier to pay civil wages. That is my logic: rather, however, to make an effort to find suitable jobs for these people as well, suitable employers, even if they support them further. I referred to the example of Ida-Virumaa and South-East Estonia that a certain wage subsidy is paid when a person who has been unemployed for more than six months is recruited. This makes it easier for employers to recruit these people. Similar measures still need to be taken, but of course, money is not the only motivator. The education system, the social system and the labour market system as a whole must contribute to educating people, increasing their qualifications, maintaining their motivation in a good way, and also reducing any possible risk behaviour. Such behaviour inevitably reduces the employer's motivation to employ a person.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U35	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Obviously, my colleague is right that, before these measures are implemented, the strawberries are already over. But I was left with this measure concerning the wage subsidy. This wage subsidy is for the creation of new jobs and also for the employment of people who are long-term unemployed. This motivates the employer more, but in what way should it motivate a person who does not want to go into the field? What am I referring to? The campaign around strawberries has been going on for months, and for those who have listened, it has arrived. But if we're looking into the unemployment fund's records, we're gonna hear that a little over a hundred people have reached that sector with this big stomper. I'm gonna wobble and say this: if you say that by the end of the year we're gonna have twice as many unemployed people, would it be ready to go to the strawberry field next summer? At the same time, we know that there are thousands of seasonal workers missing in this sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U37	Thank you for your question. As I referred to earlier, the problems in this sector are not solved alone by a specific draft. They will not be resolved by any action alone, it must be a holistic approach. On the one hand, we know that foreign workers are allowed to stay longer in Estonia in certain sectors, which has been extended until 31 July. Foreign labour in Estonia is already in the agricultural sector and more generally in employment. And, of course, there is a local labour force on account of being unemployed; these people can be employed in this sector. The fact that there were not as many people in the sector as numbers could be expected is certainly also a question of the background created. If you create such a background that this is a very difficult, very hard job, somehow look at almost impossible work, then it certainly will not help you find people there. As far as these unemployment fund measures are concerned, yes, in financial terms this will make the situation more favourable for the employer. But for an employee, it means that the employer is able to pay him a higher salary at the same cost by putting out the same payroll. If the unemployment fund pays an additional part, this means that, from the point of view of salary, the job is more motivating for the local person than without the method used by the unemployment fund. I'm sure there's an effect here. As I was referring to, I do not think that one measure alone will solve this problem. In particular, it is a matter of cooperation between employers and workers, the unemployed and the unemployment fund. There are certainly real problems and real concerns here, but there are also quite a few times there can be too much mystery.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U38	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U39	Thank you. Mr. Swing! In fact, when I asked the first question, I wanted real answers from you, not to talk about measures and the unemployed. I meant a workforce that can pick berries with efficiency, which ensures harvest, and is not just in the way of those who can harvest. I wanted to know if you had any good news for these farmers that there would be a labour force, that borders would open. But my second question is about that. You're talking about Praxis study 2019. It is the government's duty to draw up budgetary strategies on the basis of studies. You do not have a budget strategy, the crisis and the loan money have caused a blindness. But you are currently creating very persistent budgetary costs. How will you overcome this and what has the Minister of Finance done to take account of the current general state financial situation, not just the Praxis analysis of 2019?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U40	Thanks for the question, actually for the questions. I will not repeat the answer to the first half, but I will say that when it comes to opening borders, of course, at one point they will open, there is no doubt about that. But it is certainly Estonia's only labour or labour market issue that is not the issue of external borders. This topic is a little wider. The opening of the borders is being discussed by the European Union as a whole and the opening of the Schengen borders was initially planned in mid-June, and now we are talking about the end of June from the beginning of July. It certainly depends much on the country and on what the epidemiological situation will be like in the near future. I'm sure these boundaries will open up, so you don't have to despair about it. As far as the structural benefits and costs are concerned, of course, a fairer country is in some respects a more expensive country. If we want to pay people more decent unemployment benefits of the current EUR 189, or 35% of the minimum wage, it certainly does not have an impact on the budget that we are denying here. The increase in unemployment benefit will also have a similar effect. We have based our budgetary calculations on the fact that, in the most difficult years, the maximum amount of European Union funds was set to be diverted by active labour market services in order to reduce this disadvantage. In 2021, 2022, 2023, etc., it is likely that the economy will gradually recover and the labour market situation will improve, which will automatically reduce this gap. And we have not only taken into account the complete package that was in the Praxis analysis and which, as one suggestion, could increase the unemployment benefit rate to 70% of income on the first 100 days and from day 101 to 50%. We have raised it as a first step to 60% on the first 100 days, and we have kept the same rate for the next period. And, as has been said, the introduction of job breaks is more of a revenue for the state budget. The government will also continue to debate how to move forward with the inclusion of self-employed persons and board members in the unemployment insurance system. This, too, clearly has a positive budgetary impact. The issue has been whether their taxes should be compulsory or voluntary. The position of the government was rather that it could be on a voluntary basis, which requires the development of a system and a solution that we are currently dealing with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U41	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U42	Good manager! Good minister! I'll take your word for it: only 4% of the unemployed are willing to take such bites, go to work for 200 euros. Figuratively speaking, there are about a hundred of us here, and the great strawberry man Jürgen and Urmas and I and somebody in four might go to the strawberry field for 200 euros, but the rest wouldn't go. Perhaps it is also the fact that unemployment benefits are too high or that the Estonian people are at least unemployed, just so lazy. Or could this number be bigger during this crisis? It's an old number. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U43	Thank you. The Estonian person is certainly not lazy. It will probably take some time to adapt to the new situation when you do any work. After all, we are already coming out of the health crisis, at least temporarily, but the crisis is still growing in the area of the labour market. There will certainly be an increase in the number of people who are interested and willing to accept an unaccustomed job. As I referred to earlier, the current benefit rate in the form of unemployment benefit is 50% of the salary for the first 100 days, then 40%. There is a certain degree of decline in this area, and this still means that the motivation of the unemployed person to find work in time is increasing, as income simply decreases. And, as I was referring to, the workshops are certainly not intended to solve this particular issue. To this end, it makes more sense to introduce specific measures. This can be done by a ministerial decree, and we have discussed the matter with the Minister for Rural Affairs in principle, and in the near future we intend to put these measures into effect, as has been said, retroactively from 1 June. That's the plan for the moment. I'm sure that'll help. As far as picking strawberry is concerned, so much has been said. I myself have spent two years going out of my life as a student, and I think it was in the summers of 2005 and 2006 and picking strawberries. Or was it 2004 and 2005? Yeah, in 2006, I went to Räpina Manor to do some good work. But it's not as deadly as the job of anything just working for 8, 10, 12 hours. Well, officially, it certainly allowed less, but a lot of people did more because they wanted money. I am sure that the use of young people and, specifically, students is an option. It is then, as you like to say to employers, to promote work education or to do work. This is certainly an opportunity that must be used actively.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U44	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will continue on the subject of retraining and further training, and my question in itself is very simple. How does this specific draft motivate those who have lost their jobs to take additional training, study and acquire new skills, not only for the long-term unemployed but also for those who have recently lost their jobs? In the eyes of the drafters, what are the motivations for these people to actually learn more, acquire new skills and strengthen the labour market situation? And how does this draft affect the flexibility of the labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U46	Thanks for asking. I'm sure income is one of the motivations why people work, but it's not the only one. Self-fulfilment, feeling necessary for your society, knowing what you need for your family, all of these things are also important for keeping a person's work habits and going to work. As far as the impact of this draft is concerned, of course, this draft does not specifically concern training; it is other measures of the unemployment fund. For example, we offer Estonian language learning, IT training, with a wide range of trainings in cooperation with the private sector. And, of course, we are constantly negotiating and stepping within the limits of education and science, it is then through different universities of applied sciences or through different vocational education centres to constantly improve people's qualifications. The official figures in Estonia, when we talk about lifelong learning, are actually very high. Very many people participate in different trainings even when they are at work, not only when they are unemployed. And this is certainly a subject that must be promoted, supported, exemplary and given as an example. But, as I referred to earlier, this particular draft does not open any new direction of training. This draft deals with insurance, the compensation system as such, and in particular with ensuring economic livelihood. But this area, which you have pointed out, is undoubtedly of equal importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U47	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U48	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I am also very pleased that you are here before us with this bill. This is a step in the right direction. But I listened to your answers, and some things raised questions. Firstly, you said that this bill was not specifically born in the context of the current crisis. Secondly, the government intends to come later to the very important changes to the development plan. But I stress that these changes are the most important in the economic crisis when people are in trouble. And thirdly, the increase in unemployment benefit will be behind the budget. It's like you said, when the budget comes, you can do it. But the budget is made by the government. If it was necessary to support entrepreneurship, this money was quickly found with an additional budget, everything was done, but now that people need to be supported, things will be delayed. Please tell me what the logic of the government was. What are you doing for people in this crisis, and what were your arguments for making such decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U49	Thank you for your question. I'll answer from the back to the front. Quite a lot has been done for people in the current crisis. We will start with the wage measure launched by the unemployment fund, of which over 130000 people have received support. Entrepreneurs have received support for several months and this has certainly prevented redundancies as well as other job losses. Similarly, the benefit of the Health Insurance Fund, which was in this extra budget, was to provide better health care. We have offered sickness benefits, the possibility of receiving benefits on the sick leave from day one. And, of course, the measures of EAS and KredEx, which are gradually supporting our business sector, our entrepreneurs. There are many decisions taken and the government and Parliament have played a role in approving the additional budget. As regards my earlier words, I said that this particular draft was not born as a result of this crisis, but was started before that. Why am I in this Chamber today? We really want to speed up the process and move faster on to the part where there is consensus. Certain changes should enter into force as soon as possible and help people who are specifically unemployed during the crisis. It should not shift to the next few years. With regard to the increase in unemployment benefit, as I referred to earlier, this can be done within the year, if the budget also provides for this. This draft provides for it from 2021, in which case it would in any case increase in 2021. The question is whether it will rise in the remaining six months of 2020. This really depends on the additional budget. This is clearly a step in the right direction, even several steps, one could say, because we are talking about benefits, making them more flexible and also about unemployment benefits. But there are certainly still opportunities to support employers, workers and those who, unfortunately, have become unemployed. And that is what we have done through the unemployment fund during this crisis, I think, more than we have done in the last year. We will certainly continue this work by implementing various support measures, looking for different sector-specific solutions and making both communication and unemployment fund labour market services, training and other mediation more effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U50	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Perhaps it would be wise for you to open up this same draft so that for people who are unemployed and who are now entitled to unemployment benefit and may now also have job breaks, this part of income support does not disappear immediately when calculating income support. Perhaps it would be wise to say a few words about it, that it could be that a person would not be punished as if he were actively looking for a job?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U52	Thank you for your question. Indeed, income support has not been dealt with in this way. It is a natural question that the Committee on Social Affairs can discuss if it so wishes. Every municipality is known to have the right to provide other social benefits and services to its residents if they so wish, and in this case not to take into account possible job breaks, temporary pay. However, at the moment, it is estimated that this income, like the rest of the income, will be taken into account when calculating income support. But I think that this is certainly an issue that the Committee on Social Affairs can address at its meeting when you propose it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U53	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will start with my second question from this table, which, as of 20 May, indicates the rate of registered unemployment by county. And this unemployment rate is just over 4% and just under 14% depending on the county. When you were coordinating this draft with the employers, did it become clear how different the counties are in terms of objective possibilities to do these jobs anyway? Can you describe it in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U55	Thank you for your question. We haven't calculated the percentage of use of the possibilities of work-sampling across the counties. As far as unemployment rates are concerned, unfortunately, unemployment rates are also currently the highest in the counties of Ida-Virumaa and South-East Estonia. There are currently other counties: Pärnumaa, Lääne-Viru County, which is relatively similar in the same table as you referred to. Logic tells us that, of course, where there are more unemployed, there are also more opportunities to use job opportunities. But when it comes specifically to creating job opportunities, it requires a certain degree of flexibility from specific employers. Since there has been no such possibility or mechanism in the law so far, no employer has probably done much preliminary work in this direction either. Undoubtedly, now, through the Confederation of Employers and other organisations, this information must be brought to the fullest of the people, and trade unions will certainly do so. In order to be able to think about jobs where there is a need for smaller jobs, where it would not be justified to hire people in their own right full-time or part-time employment, but offering a bite of work would be a good solution for the employer. Such an analysis has not yet been carried out, and I do not think that the employers have taken these steps yet. At first, this is a proposal that is still in the draft law, and the current legal space has not tolerated such an option, not even for the amount of one euro.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U56	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U57	Thank you. I still come back to the government's response to help people in trouble in the current crisis. I repeat: when two billion extra budgets were needed to support companies, there was no problem with the budget being put together, the Riigikogu came before the Riigikogu. Now we need to support people. For example, people who have lost their jobs in April and who have worked for less than five years will receive an unemployment allowance of 189 euros in the autumn. That's the problem. And you yourself have said that 100,000 or more unemployed are already in the fall, not coming up on 1 January next year. However, please tell me whether, when you went to the government with this draft, you also proposed that an additional budget be put forward so that we can start paying unemployment benefits now or before. And if you did, what was the government's argument for not making this extra budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U58	Thank you for your question. I have to start with the first part of your question. It is not true that the additional budget was only supported by companies. As I referred to earlier, the unemployment fund measure has supported 130000 people, and the sickness fund measure has supported a large number of people both in receiving sickness benefits and in receiving medical care in general. And if we are also talking about the support of the EAS, the Rural Promotion Foundation and KredEx, then of course, every company has jobs and employees in the same way. It wasn't some kind of targeted money. On this ground it is not right in any way to create artificial confrontation to entrepreneurs and workers. I don't think it's right. The aim is, of course, to support both and, as we know, every entrepreneur is also a person. The second part of the question was whether we had a debate. There was a debate. The question was whether to really go back to opening up the state budget, but there was a decision that since this was only done in the summer, it makes sense that if we start increasing this year's unemployment benefit rate, we will do so in the second supplementary budget procedure when this budget comes. It would not have been feasible under the same bill. This would have assumed that the Minister of Finance would have gone to the Committee on Monetary Affairs separately with the proposals to change the state budget this year, which also, given the time frame and perhaps also the proportionality of the step, did not seem reasonable. As I said, in case we come out with an additional budget, I will certainly propose to increase unemployment benefit again this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U59	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I remember when we discussed the preparation of this draft in the Committee on Social Affairs, the Vice-Chancellor of Labour pointed out as one of the alternatives that could also support workers who leave in agreement with the employer. That proposal didn't make it to this bill. What were these substantive or financial obstacles to putting this proposal in the draft proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U61	Thank you for your question. This issue goes back to this category, which I believe is basically a sensible direction, but needs to be thoroughly negotiated with the social partners, which we will also come back to in the autumn. At first, we split the draft in half: the quicker part that can be done, where there was a consensus at government level, and also a consensus between the social partners, and the second part that we will come to later. In certain cases, I believe that it is only right and reasonable to receive unemployment benefit on voluntary departure. We are talking about situations where a person, for example because of a medical condition or because of moving with a family member, is forced to change jobs, to leave on a voluntary basis, but before that, he has contributed taxes in the form of taxes for 10 years or 20 years. It's not right for him to be told that you're sorry, you're not entitled to compensation. That hurts the sense of justice. But there are also situations where it may be abused. It has also been the main employer's fear and concern that people should not change jobs with too easy hands in such a case, and that it would be decided that, for example, in the summer months, it would take three months for compensation, knowing that it would be possible to get a job somewhere in the autumn. In this way, it is possible to extend the leave somewhat, leaving the employer in a very difficult situation at a very unexpected or short notice. This is the kind of place to find a balance from which the country and how to measure it correctly, in which case this voluntary departure is really just a man's entirely voluntary decision, and in which case there are real understandable reasons why a change of job is absolutely necessary. And based on the fact that a person has paid unemployment insurance contributions, he or she could be entitled either to a full comparable benefit, or perhaps to some other extent, this is also a theoretical option. We will certainly come back to this issue, but in principle I think it is right that people who have contributed to the budget of the unemployment fund can receive support from it at a difficult time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U62	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As has now been identified or claimed, 4% of those who would like to do the work and, how to say it, to apply themselves are researched. But tell me, is there really any point in this five-day and financial constraint? Why not let this thing be done a lot more freely? What is your own position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U64	Thank you for your question. The 4.2% I referred to earlier is the proportion of people who are currently known to be doing occasional work alongside their main job. It's real statistics. They can't be unemployed because the unemployed can't do this right now, but they can all be the rest if they're working people. Here was just an example of this very hall, 101 people in this hall: probably four people do this kind of extra work according to this logic. I do not know whether this applies to the Riigikogu, but more general labour market statistics show this. As far as these restrictions are concerned, these five days and this specific financial constraint are concerned, that is their point. If we are talking about unemployment, or the person who is actually looking for a job, then if, for example, he goes to work six days a week and already earns a minimum wage, then he should not logically be unemployed anymore. He can't be both. In terms of money, he works full-time because he earns more than any person working full-time. At the same time, you will receive unemployment benefit. Unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit are still intended for people who are really unemployed and who may be doing some random job opportunities but are actively looking for a job, looking for a full-time job. And if they have gone to either seasonal work or other temporary work, they will be able to stop receiving this benefit and start receiving it again later. If they go to work at a full-time or high-part-time level of 0.5 or more, then it makes sense to regard them as employees, not as unemployed, and their unemployment status is interrupted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U65	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. And now I call Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U66	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 2 June, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Minister of Social Affairs and other representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs were also present. Most of the questions raised by the Commission sounded again in this Chamber, but I will go through them briefly and quickly. The question really was that in the past, the Ministry itself has said that there is going to be a more flexible approach, that unemployment benefit is going to be differentiated depending on whether it is a good or a bad economic time. Accordingly, the burden on the State could be regulated. Why is this not fully reflected in this bill? As the Minister said in his presentation, so can I say that these questions still needed to be discussed. And above all, as I understand it, there was no final consensus on these issues within the unemployment fund board. As here today, Members of the Commission asked about the state budget and certain measures that will enter into force from next year. It was asked why they had not already been included in this draft and whether it was planned to come out with an additional budget. The Minister also said at our committee meeting that if the government comes up with an additional budget, he will certainly support the proposal that these changes should enter into force this year. And all of these rates that we're talking about are the so-called minimum program rates, and there can always be more. There was also a question that sounded in this Chamber today: there was also a request to explain how the remuneration for temporary work is paid under the Employment Services and Benefits Act. Talking about the so-called "job breaks" where the person receiving the benefit is able to receive a monthly payment for these holidays for a period of five days if he or she earns up to 40% of the previous year's minimum wage. The Minister was also asked whether an analysis had been carried out at the Ministry that, if the draft came into force in this form, when a large number of people were to be excluded from receiving income support because they could do better and otherwise. What is the impact on the evolution of poverty indicators? The Minister replied that such an analysis had not been carried out specifically within the framework of this draft law, but certainly this issue would require a reasonable review and analysis. At its meeting, the Commission decided by consensus to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for today, 8 June, that Tõnis Mölder be appointed rapporteur for the Commission, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 10 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U67	Thank you, dear waitress. Colleagues don't have any questions for you. The commission's proposal is draft 206... Lauri Läänemets, I'm sorry, I forgot a very important component in our sitting today. We can move on to the negotiations, and I am asking for a good colleague of Lauri Läänemetsa's premiere.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U68	Ladies and gentlemen, People who are unemployed need support, especially when losing their jobs is not caused by them themselves. It is the responsibility of society, of all of us, so that no one is left alone. More specifically, the changes we are discussing today are a step in the right direction, and for this we must thank all the social partners: workers, employers and the government. However, the government has brought before us only half of the work that was discussed with trade unions and employers and what the country actually needs to plunge into the difficulties of the economic crisis. Were these amendments based on a principle of support for those in trouble, or were money first started, and then people tried to link the Excel table to numbers? I will, for example, bring about a higher payment of money from the insurance premiums collected by people themselves. This is kindly promised by the government from 1 August this year. However, the increase in unemployment benefits resulting from the state budget is only intended to enter into force on 1 January 2021. In view of the fact that almost 2 billion additional budgets to alleviate the health crisis went mostly to support entrepreneurship, but almost nothing to the unemployed, the draft has once again been put forward with screaming injustice. According to the government, society must contribute jointly to supporting businesses. If it is time to help people, let them do it themselves or, as with this bill, wait until next year. But even then, not all problems will be solved. The peak of unemployment should come this autumn. Many have lost their jobs and need support right now. On the brink of the economic crisis, say live, pay your home loan and feed your children with EUR 189, it is clear that people are being overlooked. Interestingly, it is now difficult for the government to bring an additional budget to the Riigikogu to support people, so we have to wait for the fall or the next budget and next year. For the social democrats, it is important that all the various measures that help the unemployed ensure that people survive so that no one is left in poverty. So it is quite appropriate to ask: where did the initial possibility of extending the unemployment benefit in difficult times disappear? Where did the possibility of receiving unemployment benefit go when leaving work with the agreement of the parties? Where was the correction of the painful lesson that was promised so that in the future self-employed persons and company managers would also receive unemployment insurance benefits? Of all the proposed changes, only allowing job breaks to improve the system of support for those who lose their jobs will have a greater impact and a greater objective. Without the extension of the period of reimbursement, without the payment of severance and subsistence allowances agreed by the parties, the current changes are rather cosmetics, which, in the sense of the overall picture, do not ensure sufficient livelihood and, in fact, do not prevent poverty. I would point out, for example, that in April a young person who has lost his or her job and paid unemployment insurance for less than five years, for example a few years ago, will fall out of the circle of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit by November. His monthly income is 189 euros. By April next year, we will have tens of thousands of such people, because the logic of the payment of benefits is not based on a person, but on the desire to quickly repress the labour market. The only problem is there's no job. There are only poor social benefits. Fortunately, in Parliament's proceedings, there are laws initiated by the social democrats, which increase unemployment benefit to 360 euros per month and provide at least the same minimum for beneficiaries of unemployment benefit. It is also proposed to increase unemployment benefit to 70% of the salary and to pay it even if it is terminated by agreement between the parties or at their own request. If we want a good system in its entirety, it can be obtained by supporting initiatives to amend both the Government and the Socialist Act. Good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U69	Thank you. There's no further call request. I'm closing the negotiations! Would the Minister like another word? No, I don't. Thank you. The commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 206. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 10 June at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U70	We are going to the second item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the pre-school institution law, which was initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please waitress to Mr Heljo Pikhof, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am here before you to introduce the draft law on the amendment of the pre-school institution law initiated by the Social Democrats, which aims to ensure that every child has a free day care place. § 27 (3) of the Pre-school Children's Institution Act provides that local governments may charge the place fee for the kindergarten up to 20% of the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic. This year's minimum wage is EUR 584 per month. Since the establishment of the amount of the place fee and its conditions is the exclusive competence of the municipalities, this has led to very large differences across Estonia. The comparative overview of the place fees for kindergartens in 2020 prepared by the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will clearly show the difference in fees per municipality. This overview is also attached to the draft explanatory memorandum. The amount of the place fee, its benefit or exemption depends on a specific municipality, such as the residence of parents in the population register, several children from one family go to kindergarten, the financial situation of families, etc. There are no rare cases where different rates apply to children's institutions in one municipality. Many places benefit families where two or more children use a place in pre-school facilities. The second child can visit quite a number of municipalities at half the price and the third is a clean free pass. Most municipalities have set the place fee for kindergarten as a fixed percentage of the minimum wage. It is true that much has been said that it is neither right nor appropriate to link the kindergarten pay to the minimum wage. When the minimum wage rises, the place fee rises machineically. There are quite a few municipalities that settle on the upper limit of what is promised, especially for "foreigns," people who do not sign up to their municipality. For example, in Tartu, the local fee rate is 15% of last year's minimum wage. However, one child must pay well over EUR 100 for going to kindergarten, as there is also food money for 81 euros. In Tallinn, 71.25 euros per month for one child and 142 euros and 50 cents for families with two children in kindergarten this year. Of course, there's a spot fee. The second group of municipalities has established a specific amount of money for the place payment. It is unlikely that paying for kindergarten in Rakvere rural municipality, where the place fee is 5 euros, or in Peipsiääre and Võru rural municipality, where the place fee is 10 euros per month. However, they are especially generous, for example, in the Kanep municipality, where both kindergarten and food are free for children of their own people, and for people without a check-in, the place fee for kindergarten is 10 euros per month, plus food money. Unfortunately, not all municipalities support families with such generous support. In our small country, there is well over 10 times the difference in kindergarten pay. Somehow, the higher the proportion of preschools in the municipality's population, the greater the total cost of kindergarten is covered by parents. Thus, the material stratification of families is compounded by enormous local inequality. We consider it important to create the same opportunity for all children throughout Estonia to go to kindergarten, to receive high-quality early childhood education under the care of teachers. The point of the arrangement is that no child should be deprived of early childhood education because of the family's economic needs. It is the child's pre-school development that lays the foundation for his or her learning and social skills. Early childhood education is a fundamental and integral part of all education. Most countries set educational obligations. If a citizen has an obligation, it is also a state. There's no tuition in middle school. Although the state obligation to do so would end, in Estonia the upper secondary school education and the majority of vocational education and higher education acquired in Estonian is free from tuition fees, the latter at least for those who are diligent and have completed their studies in advance. But preschool education, where the foundation is laid, take your finger! just don't do it for free. According to the letters, 89% of children between the ages of 3 and 6 currently attend pre-school facilities. Ten percent of those who are excluded from early childhood education are also concerned about educational researchers, all the more so since they are mostly children who are socially dependent. School life shows that they, to a large extent, need learning help later. And it is not rare for a child who is not ready for school to be put into school at the age of 6, first grade, especially to save family expenses. These are roughly two blocks of arguments that forced the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group to submit to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the pre-school Children's Institution Act. In particular, the amendments proposed in the draft act are aimed at pre-schoolers and their parents. The draft will increase access to early childhood education, underline its importance and reduce the financial burden on parents. Equal access to early childhood education ensures a more equal start-up platform for children and reduces educational stratification, so it is important that the state takes over the payment of the day-care allowance. Good fellows! The draft law initiated by the Social Democrats provides for the abolition of the parent's obligation to pay the place fee for the kindergarten. Free education from kindergarten to higher education is one of the keys to Estonia's success, which also helps to reduce social inequalities. Instead, local government units are awarded grants from the state budget, broken down according to the number and age of children in one place or another, the management costs of the institutions, etc. More detailed allocation principles would lay down a government regulation. And perhaps also the fact that in this academic year, we have 66330 children in early childhood education. It would take around EUR 40 million from the state budget to make up the pay for the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U72	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U73	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! You said that there are two main arguments, and one argument is that children are directed to school at the age of 6 to cut family expenses. How big is this, let's say, a financial win in the family budget? And the other part of the question is this: is it not a little discriminatory to think that everyone who is put into school at the age of 6 has started their schooling for the sake of the family budget? For example, I think that when a child turns 7 in October, it does not necessarily have to be because of the material situation of the family.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U74	Thank you for your question. Of course, I didn't say six-year-olds couldn't go to school when they were school-mature. However, if they are not school-mature and do not have sufficient social skills and are put into school, this may only be because parents may have difficulty paying the place fee and food allowance for kindergarten. That's what I was gonna say. If we look at the municipalities, we take Tartu, then there is a seat fee of 81 euros and there goes the food money. If you go to a private day-care centre, the food money will be bigger, and I will give you a specific example of my hometown once again, when you go to a municipal day-care centre, the food money will be about 30 euros. It's a pretty big outing for a parent. We have people in the Chamber who have brought this matter to the fore.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U75	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U76	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, When discussing the draft proposal in the Commission, there was a long discussion on how to make free early childhood education available to these current children at home in the explanatory memorandum. Suppose the Riigikogu supports this very positive initiative. You mentioned that the 'circa 40 million' would be the amount that should be compensated for by local authorities. But where do you think it would be next year, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U77	Thank you for your question. But let us see how much money there is in the near future to be received from the European Union. It is not that we are perhaps the wrong word to spend this money, let us say that we only share entrepreneurs and so on, but we neglect children and families with children. Let's be honest, a lot of parents have lost their jobs or are losing it. It may seem that kindergarten pay is not very high. Some and some of the localities do not have, as I said, no place payment is charged to parents in the Kanep parish. But for many, this measure would be very helpful right now and immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U78	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If I understand correctly, you said that in the municipalities where there are more children, the place fee is, like, higher. You also mentioned that 40 million is the amount that the state would compensate for the local authorities. Of course, this is a nice initiative if families have to pay less money, but often the reason for the higher place payment is that teachers need to be paid a good salary. In cities and around cities, higher wages are required. And where there are many children, many kindergartens need to be built. Question: what amount have you taken into account in this 40 million "child tax" received by the local government? And how do you think such a measure will contribute to teachers' wage increases? How do you solve the need to build extra seats? I'd like to know your vision of how you think it might work in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U80	Thank you. We have foreseen that the Government of the Republic will lay down all these points with a regulation and then, of course, count the number of children in the region. In the first year, the place fee could certainly be compensated for the same amount that the local government is missing. If you still miss out on more money in one year, it might, as I say, work backwards. It's a matter of government decree. But as far as teachers' salaries are concerned, the state has come to the aid of teachers' salaries. If you raise teachers' salaries to a certain level, the state will put more on its side.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U81	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm quoting the explanatory statement. It says here: the state compensates the kindergarten for the amount of the place fee corresponding to the total amount paid by the parents in the previous calendar year. Does this mean, for example, that Rae Municipality would receive 116 euros from a child or something like that, but Kanep Municipality would not receive anything because they are not collecting this fee now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U83	Wait, what was the question? [[Heiki Hepner specifies the floor.]] Everybody gets it! It's not like the Kanep parish gets nothing. You can also get Kanepi vald. [[Heiki Hepner is talking about the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U84	Thank you. We don't have such a discussion in the hall...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U85	It's not possible to write everything down here in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U86	Unfortunately, we do not have this discussion in the Chamber at the moment. Next up, Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U87	Thank you. Dear waitress, Driven by some previous questions and this excellent table of kindergarten place fees this year across Estonia, I ask you this question. At present, this is a question of the political choices of the local government in some respects: how high it raises the place fee, which options it has to contribute to, etc., etc. If this bill becomes a practical reality when the state comes to the aid of the budget, is it possible that some single place fee will be set that does not take into account local specificities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U88	In our bill, we have foreseen that parents no longer have to pay the place fee, that early childhood education is free of charge. I don't know who that spot is for. Ask me again!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U89	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U90	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I remember when we once visited Hiiumaa with a group and I went to a lovely little kindergarten, which the local government had already decided not to charge the kindergarten fee. You've been referring to Cannabis. How many local governments now consider losing the place fee in kindergarten as a competitive advantage? How many local governments are there who don't charge the place fee for kindergarten?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U91	Thank you. I can't tell by heart. In this table, there is a fee for the place, how much is asked of parents in your municipality and how much is asked of those who are not registered in your municipality, whose child has not been registered. I can't tell by heart, please look at the chart!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U92	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The latest statistics show that 93.7% of children aged 3 to 6 are in kindergarten. Are you aware of the trend in this statistics? Your goal is 'equal opportunities for all so that no child is left without early childhood education'. Is this tendency going somewhere, perhaps to decline? Are you aware of any facts suggesting that children can no longer go to kindergarten as much as they have so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U94	Thank you for your question. We have had the situation found in this Riigikogu, and according to our data, children who do not attend kindergarten are around 10%. And, of course, not everyone is home because they have social reasons. But this trend persists. I can tell you it was about 10% a few or three years ago, and it is now. I don't see that it's in any way in decline. But, of course, there are parents who teach their own children at home. Maybe she's at home with a little kid and she's taking care of the bigger one. And these kids are gonna be great at school in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U95	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I note that my previous question continues: the state does not, however, pay all the salaries of teachers. There was one measure that temporarily helped lift it up a bit, but there is no guarantee that it will continue for a long time. But my question is, have you considered supporting private day care centres? Not all children go to municipal day care, what about their place payment? According to the bill, will they also be exempted from the fee? And the second question. If you implement the application fee exemption, there will certainly be an increase in the demand for kindergarten places, but in the municipalities around Tallinn, such as Rae rural municipality and Viimsi, as well as around Tartu and other cities there are really no places. What is this measure to create more of these places? How are you going to solve this when this demand for places is rising?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U97	What was the first question? He talked so long after that. You said the first question and the second. [[They say something in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U98	Thank you. Good answer, try to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U99	As far as private day-care centres are concerned, we do not directly have a clause on private day-care centres here. Of course, this can be added, but we know very well that the law provides that for all children who have reached the age of at least one and a half, the municipality is obliged to give the kindergarten place. And if it isn't, then the municipality will have to pay for the difference with the fee for private day care. But if the parent chooses private care or a private day care centre, then, of course, not all municipalities have such arrangements that the municipality comes to the aid of equalising the place payment. For example, I can bring Tartu again. The place fee is the same in Tartu as in private day-care centres and municipal day-care centres. This point may be put in here, but in any case, it may also be necessary to take into account that it could be done in an analogous way to private schools. There are certain quality requirements that must be met in order to obtain compensation from the State. It can be placed inside and based on it. Since 2018, private schools have been subject to rules on how they can receive public support to cover their operating costs. And it may be the same with private day care and day care.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U100	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Since my first question was a little confusing, I'm going to ask you again. Here is the basis for a certain base cost. I understand this is last year's kindergarten bill. And the government, by its regulation, decides what budget expenditure will be for every municipality, every kindergarten. How long will this basic cost calculation remain valid? Suppose your bill is implemented. Will this amount be recalculated each year? I understand that this is perhaps a too specific question, but a few words for a comment would be nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U102	If we look at the draft, we have provided that, in order to cover part of the costs of a kindergarten place, the state budget allocates support to local government units, which is distributed in proportion to the number of children and depending on the age of the children, the management costs of the institutions and other circumstances. The principles of a more precise distribution of money would be established by the Government of the Republic regulation on the basis of the State Budget Act. We have left it to the Government of the Republic to decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have this practical question, which in fact was already contained in the question of my good colleague Signe Kivi, which I do not think you answered very precisely. But I'll ask you a more specific question. You have noted in the draft that the implementation of the Act entails additional state budget costs of approximately EUR 40 million, and the Act enters into force in general terms, i.e. ten days after publication in the State's Official Journal. I have a question: since we have the budget in place now, where do these sums come from? I'm asking for an exact answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U104	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U105	The exact answer? We have heard that an additional budget is coming, and we have largely relied on an additional budget. If there is no additional budget, of course next year's budget will have to be resolved. But we very much hope that there will be an additional budget. And it would be good if we could solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U106	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You said that 10% of the circa are children who don't go to kindergarten, and their parents are teaching them, well maybe not the whole 10%. How do you imagine these families should actually benefit from this benefit if they still do not decide to put their children in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U108	Thank you for your question. Let's say it's a parent's choice. Children who are at home and who are either taught by their parents or not taught there will not benefit from this benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U109	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U110	Good manager! Good waitress! Your good colleague, Raimond Kaljulaid, promised us all a bucket of shovels and my benchmate to support this bill. I didn't get it. I don't know if Henn's got a red bucket. Where are the buckets and shovels?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U111	Thank you. Haven't you got a shovel yet? I understand you're asking where you can get a bucket and where you can get a shovel. Summer is ahead, with buckets and shovels there are things to do in the summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In point 6 of your draft explanatory memorandum, 'The effects of the law', you say that the abolition of the kindergarten place fee will encourage parents to return to the labour market more quickly, which will also benefit the national economy. What is the basis for this extremely strong statement? Has there been an analysis of how many percent of parents return to the labour market and how much benefit would the country's GDP have?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U113	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U114	Thank you for your question. The same question we had in the Committee on Culture. Of course, if the parent's salary is too low, say, in the minimum wage circle, and the place fee is high and two children need to be put in kindergarten or two children go to kindergarten, it is often more useful for him to be at home than to put children in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U115	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U116	I'm sorry! Not to put kids in kindergarten, but to be at home is more useful than going to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U117	I am forced to ask again an additional question concerning the implementation of this law. In your previous response, there was the hope that an additional budget would come, that we could then do so. And if it doesn't, this law might apply next year. But actually, we are facing a big problem when the law comes into force on the tenth day and we have to start paying that money. Parents bring children to kindergarten, spread their legs, and say we don't pay you a penny. I mean, pay the money! Don't you think it's like a bad analysis? But the bill itself is, of course, a good one.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U118	Thank you. Actually, I have to admit, you've been pointing out the right thing. This period of entry into force may indeed have to be postponed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U119	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U120	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Can you tell the hall what the real cost of one kindergarten place is for the municipality? How much is that? And what percentage does a parent have to bear? The simple calculation requires not 40 million, but 92 commas of something million, which the state would have to pay from its budget. Let's take these ratios now, which are actually paid off and how much the parent pays. And I'm also asking if the 10% that doesn't take children to kindergarten could still go to their account. They're saving the state's expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U121	Thank you. I can't tell by heart how much a kindergarten place costs in one municipality or another. But speaking of the place fee from this point of view, if the parent is at home with the children, if I still understood your question correctly, then the option of handing it over to them is not covered by this bill. And speaking of the size of the place fee, it is also very difficult to say in proportion how much of the actual cost of a kindergarten place is paid by a parent in one municipality or another. In some municipalities he pays a higher percentage, in others he pays a lower percentage, in others he pays nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U122	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm getting a little confused. Children's institutions are switching to public funding and it is as if they are becoming part of the education system, such as secondary school and primary school. Does this mean that placing a child in kindergarten will also be mandatory?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U124	Thank you. We did not address the question of whether it would become mandatory or not in the framework of this draft. But in fact, in many countries it is the case that a year or two, or even three years before school in Hungary, is the responsibility of a child to attend and receive early childhood education there. But we're not making it mandatory.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U125	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U126	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'd like to check it out just in case. The cost of a kindergarten place in the city of Tartu you can certainly say as a member of the council, and this is also an area of soccer. Does the state have to pay for everything now that it becomes a state? Will he also pay the current small amount, the percentage that is part of this cost, for the parent, or will he only pay for the cost of kindergarten places in the municipality's budget? Which way is it? There can't be a state and then a government. Which one has to pay? Is there compensation for the municipality to the extent of the place fee charged to the parent, or is the entire amount requested from the state? It's different times.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U127	Thank you. It is not the case that the entire amount comes from the state. It is still the responsibility of the local government. Then maybe I'll go over what we're proposing with our bill. The kindergarten place fee to cover part of the costs is allocated from the state budget to the local government unit, which is distributed among the local government units in proportion to the number of children and depending on the age of the children, the management costs of the institutions and other circumstances. The principles of a more precise distribution of funds are established by the Government of the Republic by regulation on the basis of the State Budget Act. This is the principle on which we proceed. We trust the Government of the Republic to find a fair solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U128	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U129	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! I am pleased that some colleagues here were concerned that you said that the first year would be given money to local authorities based on the current place payment. Is this the case, then, and in the future, this 40 million compensation will be proportional?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U130	I've read the same paragraph several times. The principles of a more precise distribution of funds are established by the Government of the Republic by decree on the basis of the State Budget Act. That's the principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U131	Good colleague! Maybe I've missed my ears, but how much would that cost for free lunch?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U132	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U133	Thank you. It also exists in the draft explanatory memorandum. The Social Democrats asked the Ministry of Finance for their draft calculations. This amount would be EUR 40 million, with food money of EUR 65 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U134	Thank you, good waitress. No more questions for you. Next, please waitress Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U135	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Culture on 2 July. All members of the Committee on Culture and three officials were present, headed by Deputy Chancellor Kristi Vinter-Nemvalts. The debate lasted about an hour and a quarter. Mrs. Pikhof appeared on behalf of the initiators. About the same thing he said in his presentation today, he spoke in the Commission. With your permission, I will not repeat this. The chairman of the committee opened a circle of questions where we learned something new from the representative of the initiators. Kristina Šmigun-Vähi asked how many children are currently excluded from kindergarten because of the place fee. The answer was the same as here today: 89% go to kindergarten, 11% don't go. Later I did, and then it was 96% going and 4% not going, but it's just a matter of different ages. Mrs Signe Kivi asked how much the place fee for Tartu kindergartens is in the city's budget. The answer was definitely more than EUR 2 million. The same questioner asked: could the amendment of the law lead to greater public interest and control over early childhood education? Mrs. Pikhof expressed her hope that she would. On the basis of the draft, Heidi Purga asked what the Social Democratic Party's overall vision of the education system was. Ms Pikhof replied that early childhood education would be more accessible to all when the proposal was regularised, which would certainly benefit the whole education system. In addition, we should also move towards free day-care food. Mrs Ladõnskaja-Kubits asked what the average place fee was and what the scissors were for place fees. In response, reference was made to this table, which is annexed to the draft, and it shows that the fee amounts to EUR 5 to EUR 81. Some local authorities also charge a maximum fee. This represents 20% of the minimum wage, which is currently EUR 584. Mr Šorin pointed out that the amount of food money is not determined by the municipality, but by the board of trustees. If parents cannot pay the place fee in kindergarten, there are social benefits, which are at a good level in Estonia. Šorin asked what the EUR 40 million needed would be worth. Heljo Pikhof replied that it was necessary to find the amount needed for families with children in the state budget. Marko Šorin also had a question about the countries of the European Union providing free early childhood education. Mrs. Pikhof said there are five countries where it is free. Marko said that he saw a major contradiction in terms of the actual economic costs of childcare institutions and possible support from the state. Mrs Pikhof pointed out that the data of this study did not specify the financing. And Mrs Helme asked the last question in this round, who referred to the explanatory memorandum to the draft and asked how the abolition of the kindergarten place fee would encourage parents to return to the labour market more quickly. Heljo Pikhof replied that the long term perspective was that some people would prefer to keep their children at home and not pay the place fee for kindergarten. As you can see, there was talk in the Commission along the same lines as we did in this Chamber, but maybe this all changed because of the opinion expressed by the group of representatives of the Ministry of Education. After it was announced that the decision of the Government of the Republic was not to support the draft, a small intrigue emerged as the Ministry of Education is currently developing a law on early childhood education. And the ensuing discussion was that I had to protest because we no longer discussed the draft that we had from the initiators' representative in the Committee on Culture, but had an interest in the project that HTM is dealing with, and none of us have seen it or know anything about it. The chairman of the committee accepted this protest, but explained the matter and gave the opportunity to speak on the subject, as it is also important to know the main lines of the law being prepared in the ministry. Mrs Pikhof recalled that five years ago, the Ministry did exactly the same thing and asked how long it would be to wait. The answer was that the draft will soon go to the round of coordination, and in December or January next year it should already be in this Chamber. After that, 183 were discussed for some time. Heidy Purga proposed that the initiators consider including a single education clause in the draft language. Marko Šorin pointed out that the issue of childcare was topical in municipalities where there were no kindergarten places, and asked what was the underlying statement that there was a huge difference between the quality of educational establishments. Is that true? Mrs Ladõnskaja-Kubits said that there is always another side of the medal for free things. He asked how many families really need help to pay the reward. Perhaps it would be a better solution to help people in need only, not to target support for the whole system. A representative of the Ministry of Education came up with an answer that seemed very constructive to me and gave me a better picture of the situation and the draft law. Ingar Dubolazov explained that the drafters have pointed out in the explanatory memorandum that according to the analysis of the Ministry of Finance, about 3/4 municipalities support families of many children by granting localisation allowances or exemptions. For his part, he added that about 2/3 of the municipalities account for the number of children in the family and the financial situation of the family. For example, if there are three children in the family, the third is already in kindergarten for free. That was the example. We were also talking about quality: could the change increase the quality of kindergarten services from a teaching point of view. Councillor Mrs Angelika Berg introduced us or rather reminded us of the opinions on the bill There are about two and a half pages of signatures in support of the draft. The Estonian Association of Christian Private Schools has also sent its opinion, who is asking for attention to be paid to private day-care centres during the procedure. Currently, the draft deals with the exemption from the place fee in kindergartens run by the local government. Aadu Black said that the Centre Party Group trusts the position of the Ministry of Education and Research and hopes to see systemic changes in early childhood education as a matter of urgency. The session was closed by the fact that Signe Kivi pointed out that drafts of political content should certainly be presented to the Commission by the Minister or, in a specific case, opened up here, perhaps have been misspelled. Mr Black put two proposals to the vote: a proposal to place the draft on the plenary agenda by 8 June and to reject the draft proposal at first reading. The first was supported by consensus by the whole Commission and the second was 6, 4 against and no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U136	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U137	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In the case of the previous speaker, the round of questions showed that, as there are many people from local government backgrounds in the Riigikogu, questions were clearly raised about how the change is exactly compensated for local governments, how justice is guaranteed, etc. Did the Commission also mention fair treatment of children? We have a common education system that operates on the principle of convergence, and we actually appreciate as a society that our education system guarantees equal opportunities for all: basic school, upper secondary school and even university without tuition fees. In this situation, it is relatively grotesque that we have early childhood education, which is part of the education system, for a fee and at a very different rate. In some places, the cost of early childhood education is 10 euros, in others more than 100 euros. Doesn't that put children in an unequal position? Was this discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U138	Thank you. Well, there was something like that. But I would point out that this is not the way to treat children, but their parents. And, well, first of all, you have to make it compulsory to go to kindergarten, as you perfectly understand. Then we can discuss your thesis further. Let's make this short childhood happy three or four years shorter. However, this was not discussed intensively in the Commission. When questions were asked about the place fees in the various municipalities, and the answer was the same as today in this Chamber, that it was all in the table and look at the table, the interest of the members of the Commission was lost.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U139	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U140	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When I listened to your introduction to the government's position, it seemed very familiar. On the draft that I have initiated, there was a similar position, on the draft by Jüri Jaanson: that the idea is quite good, but we are already working on these things and we will come up with our own proposals sometime in the future. You've been a member of the Committee on Culture for a long time. Does it look like a copy-paste system to me alone as a government's position, or does it also seem to you that the government's positions are relatively similar to those of the various opposition drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U141	Thank you for your question. For obvious reasons, I shortened the protocol a little bit, didn't I? In fact, Signe Kivi asked the same question, rather than asking, but expressed an opinion. I will now read the minutes: 'This is a political position and the Commission has received similar feedback from the government on drafts on various issues. " Then we'll talk about another subject. I mean, that's what they said. I've only been on the Committee on Culture for over a year, and the last time I was there was, like, 20 years ago. So it would be incorrect for me to compare if I were to start talking about it. Experience is, however, that a lot of documents need to be read, including the opinions of the Government of the Republic, which it gives to arbitrary draft laws, not only those of the Committee on Culture. I usually read what's usually in the fat sheriff at the end. If you're interested, let's go higher up and read this thing. But in fact, it may be that the letter repeats these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U142	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Good Mikhail! I dare say that from the children's books you've written, I have almost everything at home. I understand that you are a person who thinks that childhood is an important thing and that childhood could be long enough, just as you said in response to my colleague, Mr Ossinovski, that let's not shorten children's childhood. But do you not think, or have you not been told in the Commission, that the current system will shorten childhood? At least it seems to me. I've also sent many children from kindergarten to school myself, and when I look at their classmates, I see that a couple of twenty percent of parents or 10% of parents are sure to send a child to school early, if it was time. And the reason you start analyzing maybe it's cheaper at school. Maybe we should support this bill. Then perhaps some children would have a child's heightened childhood.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U144	Thank you, of course, for having these books, it would be even better if you read them! Then you'd know I'd be kidding quite often, but I don't always know when a joke has sounded and when it's really serious. For example, today I was joking, and Evgeny sat down, didn't smile, but a serious sentence was screamin'. So there's a problem. Everyone understands what he wants. But frankly, I'd leave it up to my parents. I went to school when I was five years old, I turned six in school when I was already studying there. And I went to college when I was 16. In a way, I feel a little sorry for these kids, but for other reasons. When I came here, I thought I would not allow myself to be pulled away from what was said at the committee meeting, but now I remember this. Ask!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U145	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U146	Thank you. I will ask again Heiki Hepner's question, to which the author of the bill could not answer. In particular, point 5 says here that the support given to local authorities must not be less than that requested from parents last year. It is 180 euros per month in Tartu, and in Kanep or where it was, we heard, there is nothing to pay for. Was it the Commission that, in this case, municipalities are treated unequally: some get a lot, but those who have provided free day care receive nothing. Was the subject discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U147	Thank you for your question. This issue was not discussed in the Commission, but I think it is clear that this inequality in treatment still exists today. After all, all these fine-tuning funds and all other things are directly dependent on how many people are in one municipality or another. If this bill were adopted as a law and the government made its own decisions, the amount would depend on the number of kindergarten children. So yes, Tartu gets more. But it would be funny if Tartu could get less than Lihula, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U148	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U149	Thank you very much to the President of the sitting. Good waitress! The same idea or principle has been discussed in Tallinn, Tallinn City Council. I can say that the residents, especially parents, are more in favour of this principle and are in favour of it. The last time it was discussed in Tallinn City Council, the city government actually referred to the same bill that we are working on here in the Riigikogu today. I interpret it in such a way that, if the state really put it under its shoulders to compensate for the loss of income in Tallinn, this amount is considerable, it is 20 million euros per year, then the city would perhaps be more favorable. You yourself have been involved in the management of the municipality for a long time. How's that east side? For example, would Narva's people appreciate it if the parents did not pay the day care allowance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U150	Thank you for your question. It's a type of question called rhetorical. It is pointless to ask how people react to the fact that they have to pay less. Of course, they will be happy to respond. The second question is what Mr Ladynskaya spoke about in the committee: whether to compensate everyone equally and equally. The point is that two-thirds of children are currently in kindergarten with the benefits granted by municipalities. Here, you might want to think more broadly about how to identify the poorest people who need the help most. Not like one shovel for everyone, but that particular group. It seems to me that this debate would be a little more constructive, more specific. As the Commission did, this draft is political. It is my understanding that this is a policy when a wish is expressed, a trend is said to be resolved by the Government of the Republic. In any case, this is not included in the bill. I think it would be more interesting for the Commission to discuss this point, which I have also spoken about. So the next time you come out with this, you might think that the grandchildren of a member of the Riigikogu may not need as much help as children in a family where both parents are unemployed, for example, by paying a seat fee in Tallinn kindergarten.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U151	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U152	Thank you. After all, we know that there is no tuition fee in comprehensive school, and even though the state obligation to do so ends, upper secondary school education and the majority of vocational education in Estonia are also free of charge. Similarly, higher education is free of tuition fees. Vocational education, higher education and upper secondary school are not compulsory. You said that if we approved our draft, early childhood education should be compulsory. So much for a comment. But I want to ask you this. When I look at your party's election program, there you want to lose the kindergarten fee and do not want to ask the parents for food money. A member of your party, the chairman of the committee, said that the draft is political. What do you mean, political, if you've seen the same thing coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U153	Thank you for your question. But what is political, which is not political, I just answered on the previous question. What can I do to keep our debate within the framework of 183 SEs?! But just so you're satisfied, I'll find out after I get out of here, who signed this thing into our program, and I'll ask him to contact you. I have a suspicion it might have been Aadu Black. Then you could discuss among yourselves an issue which, given the content of the draft currently on the agenda, is in no way included in the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U154	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U155	Thank you. In your answer to my first question, you referred in some way to the fact that this draft makes early childhood education compulsory. That's not really in this bill. It is a question of ensuring equal opportunities by ensuring that early childhood education is free of charge, similar to primary and upper secondary school education. I don't know where you read that mandatoryity out of here. The second criticism you made was that this bill is political, let the government solve it. Indeed, the general principle that early childhood education can be free of charge has been written down here. And, of course, the government, which negotiates with local authorities every year how they are financed for the various components, must agree on how to secure this funding with local authorities. This is a perfectly normal decision at the level of the legislator, and executive power is doing the job of the executive. But your logic somehow follows the conclusion, that is the question that sometimes in the case of upper secondary school education, it could be that, for example, the grandchildren of a member of the Riigikogu could pay for the upper secondary school and if the parents are unemployed, their children could study free of charge. After all, the principle should be one of early childhood education and upper secondary school education. Do you really think, then, that, in the case of other levels of education, you should consider setting tuition fees on a need-based basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U156	Thank you. I'm gonna have to explain that right now, Evgeny, such a hardened politician, right, puts words and sentences in my mouth that I didn't say. I'm sure you can count what I said about this today. I've already done it twice. Actually, I think it was your first TV debate in my presence. It was in Narva, where we were sitting together, and it was really nice. But until now, you haven't realized that if I say anything, I will. I mean, we have not come here to discuss the Centre Party's views on this matter. We didn't come here to develop our own fantasy of what would be better to do. We are discussing this bill, which we have on the table only that, not the principles that may or may not be the basis for somewhere, if someone would like to see them there. Yeah, you're totally free to ask no matter what color Jerry was in the first series, for example, we're gonna start asking each other these things. I ask you to stick to this bill, this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U157	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The position of the Government of the Republic that was forwarded to us was obviously unsupportive, and the members of the Commission pointed out, among them, that we have seen some of the reasons that have been put forward in the past for very many of the opposition's proposals. But this time there was one that caused discussion, and perhaps it would be interesting for members of the Riigikogu to know that the quality of children's institutions or other local services, such as the professionalism and motivation of kindergarten teachers, may deteriorate as a result of my quote. We asked about it, we had a pretty interesting discussion. Is it possible that you could open this point a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U159	Thank you, good question! I can talk about it, but no one's gonna be smarter than that, because there was no answer. In fact, that statement was, and that statement also exists on the paper that I have ahead of me, but how to tie one thing and another thing, no one could tie it. That was the case in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U160	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, I have a simple question. What happened in the Commission or what was the main argument that such a good and noble draft was voted out of the procedure? Well, two or three important arguments, why did the Commission consider that this good draft would not be appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U162	Thank you. I hope two is enough. For me, as a person who spent a long time in the state budget, it was very impressive to hear this and to see with his own eyes that this bill did not really have the costs that would be incurred, unwritten. When the Commission was asked where these 40 million come from, the answer was that we will receive European Union money this year, let the little ones also have children. Okay, this year really, but where are we going to take it next 20 years? What's it gonna be for? For me, it was very, very important, just like every time it comes down to an additional amount. And secondly, actually, it wasn't a completely pointless debate when we started talking to the ministry about their bill on early childhood education. I hope that they will come out with this and we will have the opportunity not to give the government the task of figuring out and putting in place the mechanism for how the proposed draft would work or how to get it in a pure form in the sense of 'pure', of course, transferred. This is a problem that we have been discussing for years, years and years. The hope, however, is that we will get something from the Ministry of Education. So two reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U163	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U164	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! We heard the government trying to kick the ball away on this bill, driving a total wacko, claiming that the Ministry of Education is building some kind of concept, but it does not specify whether it will be completed in a year, five or fifty years' time. Today, thousands of Estonian families expect the Riigikogu to support this very necessary draft. In these difficult times, this would clearly improve the situation of their families. Please say with a clear voice from the Riigikogu's remote control to the Estonian people: why does the Government League not support this draft now and now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U165	Now I don't understand whether you have questions written in advance and you have to ask them either way, whether I have already told you about it or not. I told you right in the introduction that this topic was being discussed, that it was being discussed for half an hour in the Commission, and that is where I think your colleague said yes, Heljo said yes, that he remembers that five years ago, in the Committee on Culture, the exact same subject was discussed and the same draft was promised. He asked when it would be, in four years' time or when. And he received the answer that the bill must now go to the coordination circle, which usually takes three or four months, and somewhere in January next year, the talk was January, it will be. And as for what HTM is doing, in a few weeks' time, you will see whether or not they were telling the truth, whether or not it has been sent to the coordination circle. So, yeah, people are waiting. People are waiting for many things, some are waiting for their 20 to 30 years of changes that would make their lives a little better and wait for tens of years to come. Life is like this, unfortunately, you can't have it all at once.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U166	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U167	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I am asking from the previous speaker on the board that the state should compensate to the same extent as last year's kindergartens have been invested in money. Can it not cause such a feast during the plague, or kindergarten place fee rally: if some local authorities have not taken the place fee in kindergarten now, it may be more reasonable for them to set it at a maximum rate? And doesn't that put parents under different treatment? A parent whose child completes a kindergarten will not receive this compensation. And the local government, which doesn't charge the place fee, doesn't get the money. And what happens next year when we have a budget shrinking and the average salary falls? Was that a discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U168	Thank you. The point of your question is perfectly understandable, but we did not discuss it in committee because the members of the committee had examined the draft law. I am afraid that what Mr Pikhof said here several times was effective: that the compensation mechanism, he reminded us that it was written in the bill, states the Government of the Republic. What's the point of discussing it if the Government of the Republic is to deal with it anyway? That's what it was for me. Perhaps the other Members of the Commission did not ask for this issue either, or they may have had another reason why they did not, but I did not specifically ask for this reason. It was simply not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U169	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U170	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for your answer to my previous question. There is, of course, a slight difference. Of course, people are generally in favour of reducing their expenditure or household expenditure at all. But the opposite situation just arose in Tallinn: there was a kindergarten fee withdrawn and now they were put back, just when the most difficult crisis begins. Secondly, as regards your claim that it is important to try to identify and support families who really need help, I think that if we talk again about the capital, where, in the case of two children, the kindergarten costs about EUR 1700 per year, it is very difficult to find families who will be left with this EUR 1700 per year and whose life will not play any role. But this bill doesn't really forbid you to pay the place fee. Even if the place fee for kindergarten is abolished, the wealthier families, perhaps the family of a member of the Riigikogu, as you have pointed out, can, for example, speak of the grandchildren of a member of the Riigikogu, support the kindergarten for their part and voluntarily pay this money if they want to contribute to the development of the kindergarten and cover expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U171	You know, Raimond, I couldn't even imagine such a move in the debate, but I'll keep that in mind. The point is, then, that I personally pay for any decision taken here, which I do not particularly like, from my pocket or from you or from any of our colleagues. Well, that's interesting. You gotta think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U172	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Indrek Saar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission rapporteur, Mikhail Stalnukhin, said that some things need to be expected for another 20 to 30 years, but in the context of this specific draft, there is no way to overcome or reverse the crisis we have been facing for three months. Eesti Pank's analysts recently gave an overview of the effects of the crisis on the labour market and what awaits us. In summary: if the main men affected in the previous crisis were the young women now. The worst of all, this crisis has hit those women who work in the service sector, where the first severe wave of layoffs has gone through. It was also pointed out that single parents, most of whom are women, have been put under a particularly heavy burden. It was a sad statement from the central bank. And there is no doubt that the climax of the economic crisis is yet to come. We may have a rather harsh autumn ahead of us. Unfortunately, this means that the number of people who lose their jobs is increasing. Many, however, have kindergarten children. If we do not take a decisive step now and immediately towards free early childhood education, then this means that there are more and more children in Estonia who do not go to kindergarten, not by the free will of their parents. Unemployed single mothers and families, where one or both parents lose their jobs, shrink their incomes and take children out of kindergarten. You gotta stick together somewhere. And here's where the snowball starts to roll. If a child misses his or her early childhood education or has large gaps in it, he or she will find it more difficult to cope later in school. And if your studies go bumpy, your school trail goes down, or your education just goes down, then the prospects for a young person will be much more modest. In other words, early childhood education is a foundation that supports the development of a child, a foundation that helps a young person find his or her place in life, do a pleasant job, serve properly, and otherwise cope. Therefore, in order not to bring new inequalities and injustices to Estonian society, parents must be exempt from paying the place fee for kindergarten. However, the amendment to the pre-school institution law we have initiated is not just a draft crisis. This law is urgently needed by both society and the people of Estonia without a crisis. As Heljo Pikhof has already pointed out, in good times about a tenth of young children will not arrive in kindergarten. And in many cases, the reason is that parents save money in this way. Alas, there are considerable expenses for a family when a child goes to kindergarten. Free education plays an important role in the development of Estonian children and thus society as a whole, so it is also our duty to provide free early childhood education. As has already been said here, the draft Social Democrats also have a clear regional political dimension. For years, multiple differences in the amount of the participation fee imposed by the municipalities, which means unequal or unfair treatment of children and their families. The crisis also dwindles the income of local governments, as the tax receipts are decreasing in the context of increasing unemployment. And it is feared that many rural municipalities or cities will fail to offer the benefits they have already enjoyed for families with children or with economic difficulties, as well as to keep the kindergarten pay at a lower level. It is therefore only right to abolish the place fee for kindergarten and to impose on the State the obligation to cover these costs from the state budget. Children must not suffer in the economic crisis. Let us vote in such a way that no children are taken out of kindergarten during the crisis. Kindergartens must not become a luxury for children whose parents lose their jobs. Honourable Riigikogu! The draft initiated by the Social Democrats supports the well-being and development of Estonian children and smoother education. We exempt parents from paying the place fee in kindergarten, so that our children have a more equal opportunity and that educational stratification does not start from the low ground! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U174	Thank you. Aadu Black, are you talking about this? Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U175	Could be. I think it is necessary to comment on the fact that I really said that this is a serious political issue. And I also announced this at the committee meeting, in addition to what others have said, that the general principles are sympathetic. The main point I drew attention to at the committee meeting was that the Riigikogu is not about writing one law or another, but about lawmaking. What's the difference? Legislation is a harmonious process; it is not a chaotic set of good ideas. And another interesting line: I want to add that there were a number of questions here about how fair and necessary it is. My close colleagues have been there for many years, and hele Everaus can confirm this, Mr Andrus Ansip, who has taught me one thing: the Reform Party and all the wise politicians never support the law that deals with throwing money off the plane, but insists that all subsidies are addressed to specific people in need. A wise country can do this, and others can't. Indeed, we also had the question of Mr Stalnukhin, a good colleague in his review, calling attention to this and protesting against the fact that the chairman of the meeting let the reins loose and a possible draft from the Ministry of Education and Research began to be discussed. But he stated that after we all found out it was necessary to find out what alternatives were. And, indeed, from this point of view, it is our view that a law must be made that harmonizes with Estonian legislation. If there are good ideas in a conglomerate, this does not mean that it should be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U176	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 183 at first reading. We are going to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Pre-School Children's Institution Act 183. Please take a stand and vote. I'm sorry, I'm sorry! Sorry, my bad! Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 183 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 22 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported, so the draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U177	Let's keep going. Today's third item: First reading of draft Act 203 amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to the Tax Administration Act. I beg the Secretary of Finance Martin Helme to waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U178	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I come before you with the amendment of the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel and, in connection with it, with the draft Act on the Amendment of the Tax Administration Act. The main objective of the draft submitted to you is to help Estonian oil shale miners and to ensure that Estonia has its own mining industry in the future. What has happened in recent months has had a significant impact on the production and consumption of oil and other energy products. The price of oil has fallen to its lowest level in recent decades, and the price of oil shale fuel has also fallen. The latter is an important export product for Estonia. Oil shale electricity is also in difficulty. In the situation that has arisen, it is essential that the Estonian state should come to the aid of its entrepreneurs and use reasonable and possible temporary measures to survive a difficult time. The total number of oil shale mining companies in Estonia is three. These are Enefit Mines AS, i.e. Eesti Energia, VKG Mines OÜ and Kiviõli Chemical Industries OÜ. Those undertakings shall be temporarily allowed to use special-purpose diesel for a period of two years, including from 1 July. It is a diesel fuel to which the manufacturer has added marker substances and which is subject to significantly more favourable taxation. While we currently have a rate of excise duty on conventional diesel of EUR 372 per 1000 litres, the rate of excise duty on special diesel is only EUR 100 per 1000 litres. Thus, the special diesel user will benefit from an excise duty of EUR 272 per 1000 litres. The permitted uses, sales specifications and other aspects of this fuel are regulated in the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel Act. By amending this law, we allow the company to use special diesel in its mining and mining land, in its industrial territory and in its oil shale mining vehicles and equipment. We also allow special diesel to be used for the transportation of oil shale, oil shale ash and waste material, without the use of railways or public roads. The use of special diesel for oil shale mining is regarded as State aid and the granting of aid is possible under the Commission block exemption Regulation from the entry into force of the Act. The institution responsible for granting State aid is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The beneficiaries of the State aid are companies authorised to mine oil shale, which are granted the right to acquire special diesel from fuel sellers. It is also necessary to amend the Tax Administration Act accordingly. Paragraph 29 of the Tax Administration Act provides a list of cases in which the tax authority may disclose information concerning tax secrecy to third parties. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will grant State aid to both non-State aid granted to oil shale mining companies under the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel Act and State aid granted under the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Tax Act to electricity and gas intensively consuming undertakings. In doing so, in order to effectively fulfil the obligations imposed on it, it is necessary, in certain circumstances, to recall those obligations, for example where the recipient of the aid fails to provide information on the State aid received in good time. However, the obligations cannot be fulfilled if the provider of the State aid does not have an overview of the beneficiaries of the aid. This information is available to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, which is granted the right to communicate this information to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. As a result of granting a tax credit to oil shale mining companies, the total amount of excise revenue in the state budget is EUR 8,5 million over a period of two years, calculated mainly on the basis of forecast data from undertakings. In other words, for this amount, we are helping the oil shale sector. The tax authority plans to use the available resources to control the use of special diesel, and no additional resources are needed to do so. As this tax credit is limited to oil shale mining and industrial areas, the monitoring focus is on road and mining border areas where there may be a misuse of special diesel. Verification of the use of special-purpose diesel is necessary for the strict application of the excise benefit and to minimise distortions of competition. I am sure, in the course of the questions, you will also ask for more precise numbers, which I can give you, but in this introductory speech, I will not bring out the numbers of each individual entrepreneur. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U179	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U180	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. EKRE's election programme states that painted fuel is evil and must be abolished and that the model in which painted fuel is used in agriculture is wrong. And now you're going to extend the scope of this. What are your plans for this painted fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U181	Thank you. Still glad everyone reads our program, but the devil eats flies too. I would say that there was an alternative in our programme concerning the special-marked diesel plan. That's not what I'm gonna tell everyone here about the manner in which we were gonna reshape this whole system. The comprehensive reform of the system was not agreed in the Coalition Agreement, and a specific measure is a support measure for Ida-Virumaa and the oil shale sector in particular during the crisis. So I don't think we're gonna open up the issue of using special diesel in agriculture. Well, we can also discuss it here, but basically these are two separate issues in some respects.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U182	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The government intensively promotes the oil shale industry and still makes a wild contribution to it: the oil plant, tax measures and the reduction of environmental charges. This is putting taxpayers' money in a rather risky area, which depends on climate policy and oil price turbulence. In general, they are clearly in decline. I'm asking you that. The European Commission is putting money in your pockets, which is linked to climate policy. 125 million is the money from the Fair Transfer Fund, and tomorrow you will go to Ecofin to protect this 750 billion package, which will five times increase the money from the Fair Transfer Fund. Where are the coalition's drafts and those measures that promote the creation of jobs not linked to the oil shale industry in Ida-Viru County and which support investment in the non-oil shale sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U184	Thank you. Firstly, oil prices are not in decline. On the contrary, the price of oil has clearly been on an upward trend since it went north. The oil shale sector has served Estonia well for years and years, generating revenue for the country both through state companies and through tax revenue. In 2019 alone, the State received EUR 60 million in labour taxes and other taxes, levies and charges, including environmental charges, from the oil shale sector. Last year alone, we made over EUR 100 million. The total sector's sales revenue in 2018 - a very large part of which is export revenue - amounted to EUR 120 million. In other words, the oil shale sector has been richly implementing Estonia's budget in many different ways for many years and is very promising today, despite its greenness. Further: directly in this sector there are 5,600 people in one county, Ida-Viru county, and 2 000 people in the chain or more indirectly. So over 7500 people get jobs in the oil shale sector. And these are well-paid jobs, real jobs, not app economy or something. I see no reason why we should regard green environmental policy as contrary to the oil shale industry. They can be connected. That is why the European Union is putting this money on us so that we can make our oil shale industry more environmentally friendly. There's nothing weird about that. And it has become more environmentally friendly in recent years. In Europe and elsewhere in the world, there is a technique that allows us to capture all CO2 emissions if someone thinks it's harmful for some reason. All of this can be done in parallel. I don't see any problem here. I am simply saying that I do not see this option either, because the European Union is offering us some kind of fund, we are shutting down one of Estonia's most important and very profitable industrial sectors. These things cannot go so far that we are closing a sector that is also very important in terms of regionally important sector and energy security in Estonia. The green agenda must be promoted in such a way that our oil shale mining and oil shale chemistry continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U185	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U186	Thank you. Dear Minister, Glad to hear you! Of course, I wouldn't ask you, but I could ask you if your job would rather be a real job with a decent salary or more part of the app economy. But that's not what I'm asking. That's what I'm asking. I will read in this draft on an issue such as state aid, an extremely important issue. You want to allow this specific excise duty reduction to be block exempted for a particular sector. If I try to read these more specific references here, then I do not understand exactly how these requirements are still met, I mean transparency and objectivity. The Block Exemption Regulation sets out the social reasons why, for example, Ida-Viru could support workers, there are regional reasons. But on what basis was the decision to authorise specially labelled diesel used in these mines? I'm asking for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U187	Yeah, I guess he's a good pointer. After all, we have more mines in Estonia; basically, every sand quarry is a mine. In the oil shale sector, we have three specific companies that do this, but we have no oil shale mines anywhere else than in this region. And precisely the industries involved in oil shale mining are the ones that are currently in a difficult situation. Let's just say I'm not a smart state aid specialist. However, the state aid specialists examined the draft, reviewed it and found it feasible in this form. So all I can answer is that I trust the answer they gave us about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U188	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Maybe what we're dealing with is a happy economy. It is as if there is such expectation that tax incentives will bring happiness to the yard. How long do you think the oil shale sector will be able to keep it on water through tax incentives and reduction of pollution charges? The investments planned are huge in this sector, as Mr Sõerd mentioned, but there is a complete lack of plan for transition to sustainable management and investment in R &amp; D. When are these plans coming to ensure the development of Ida-Viru County in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U190	Thank you. I was last in Ida-Virumaa at the end of last year, but I've been there pretty often. And if you want to use that expression, the people there are happy over the current government policy, yes. It doesn't sound like this from Tallinn, let's say, non-living office coaching, that we don't need it and let it die out. On the contrary, it is perfectly clear that this is a strategically important area and a profitable area for Estonia. I still stress that this is a profitable area, an area that has long been profitable. And if it survives these turbulence, it'll probably continue to be a profitable area. I don't think we're keeping him on the water. I think that, in the intervening times, it has clearly gone too far with the introduction of different environmental taxes and other environmental regulations, which have been trying to suppress it. We do not need to subsidise or subsidise the oil shale industry in any way; we need to let it cope. And as far as the other side of the question is concerned, modernisation, this work is always going on. I cannot answer for VKG, but Eesti Energia has several research projects that they finance and cooperate with both the University of Tartu and Tallinn University of Technology. They're very innovative. So I do not know what this statement is based on, that there is no innovation here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U191	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U192	Good manager! Good minister! Just in case, I'm gonna ask you and recite. Can this specially labelled fuel also be used in locomotives transporting coal from the mines to the power plant?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U193	No, it can't be used on the railroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U194	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U195	Thank you. Good minister! That last answer raises my question. If you can use that fuel in mining machines, but you can't use the same oil shale to transport it to the factory by train, I can't catch that economic logic well. But my question is this: if, now, such a fall should be made, what will happen to these companies as a result? Will they become profitable or will the losses be reduced? And at what cost could they become profitable?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U196	Thank you, that's a good question! Well, if they were profitable, they probably wouldn't even come to us for help. I must say that these proposals, both this and the next draft, have come from the sector. They had a number of other proposals, such as labour taxes and some others, which the government did not consider possible, but that we considered possible. The honest answer is that if we enforce this package, the package on diesel fuel and the levy on ash storage as a law, we will avoid mass redundancies and avoid the risk of some of these companies shutting down production. I cannot say that this would mean the liquidation of companies, but it could mean the closure of production. And that's what we want to avoid. Maybe we'll keep the bad from happening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U197	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U198	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have already answered about State aid, but I do have a question. I completely agree that this is a complex matter for experts and we do not need to know the details, but the use of special-purpose diesel for oil shale mining may perhaps be regarded as State aid. I'm gonna ask you this. Although experts said that there would be no problem, did they admit that there was some small risk that at some point someone suddenly thought that it would still be state aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U199	Thank you. My life experience shows that almost all things can be considered in different ways. There's always a small risk that there's some kind of state aid talk. There is almost no economic debate where the first question is not that there is no state aid here. State aid rules are, of course, very thorough and complex, and it must be acknowledged that I sometimes find them slightly arbitrational, but, well, that is perhaps the subject of another debate. However, the State aid side is primarily dealt with by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and their confirmation is that there will be no problem with State aid. I don't know what else to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U200	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U201	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It makes perfect sense to support strategic enterprises in times of crisis. And I believe that no one is arguing that the oil shale sector is now strategic for Estonia. But there are a number of ways to support it. Why in the oil shale sector have such temporary legislative changes taken place.. we have quite a number of draft procedures here, rather than increasing part of the capital, not offering KredEx guarantees, loans or any other measure that has been offered to many other sectors?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U202	Thank you. It is true that this is not the only draft that has been dealt with. No of these three companies only Enefit Mines, i.e. the Estonian Energy Corporation is the State's. It has also been discussed with the chemical industry of Kiviõli, the owner company Alexela, about a possible capital injection and exchange bonds. And it has also been said that they will receive a loan through KredEx. I have to be honest with you, as of today, I don't know what happened to these loan negotiations. But yes, certainly this is not the only thing these companies do themselves or what the government has done. One of the things that should be noted is that, since mines have a 'unbroken production cycle', they were unable to benefit from the temporary labour market measure implemented by the unemployment fund. Their turnover is falling with a longer reference because they have quite a lot of forward transactions. Their workers have not yet been made redundant and their employees who are still on the payroll have not been reduced. They therefore did not meet the conditions of this labour market measure and so these mines proposed to the State to support them with a separate labour market measure aimed directly at them. But it was also a very expensive proposal, which they made more expensive than the ones on the table right now. We'll have to, say, stay within the limits of opportunity and common sense. And if you ask what this and the next bill put together, maybe it answers Andres Sut's question, then it means that the whole sector will not face a complete crisis. He won't give you any more. If we wanted them to be happy, we should have done a lot more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U203	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! If you are trying to give the impression in your answers that you are the only one standing up for this sector and their jobs and that the questioners in this Chamber would like to shut down tomorrow, that is certainly not the case. We are concerned about where the future market for oil shale-produced electricity will be. If we look at what is happening in the world in general, we notice that investors have become very cautious and difficult to support such activities. It may happen that the Estonian state is the only one who tries to support these activities. Where are we going to sell this electricity or its output in the long run when world trends are running in the other direction? As a result, what Aivar Sõerd is asking is particularly important, what are the possible investments that would soften the transitions in view of what is happening on the world market.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U205	Thank you. I'm not really trying to make it look like nobody else cares. On the contrary, I am very pleased that we have the broadest possible share in the fact that the oil shale industry in Ida-Virumaa or, let's say, the oil shale industry in Ida-Virumaa is something that is of strategic importance to us and that it must in any case be kept alive and promoted. I basically agree that oil shale electricity is a fading phenomenon. Production of electricity from oil shale, at least as long as we have the price of CO2 as it is, is not very competitive on the market. There may be some periods in which Nordic hydropower is produced in a smaller volume and is very cold and all these other things are together. In this case, it will be competitive on the market. But the fact is, oil shale electricity production volumes decrease year after year. Meanwhile, oil shale oil, I think, is very promising. The volumes are increasing, the export market is global, even at the current very low price, production is no longer in deficit, but has reached more or less zero. If the price goes up a little bit, it'll be on the plus side. And it is also very important that the development of oil shale chemistry is endless. There are a lot of valuable products that can be retrieved from it if you develop it. I do not see any possibility that the Estonian state could simply write off oil shale as a natural resource and stop using it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U206	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U207	Thank you. You have some special love for oil shale as a mineral. I would be more concerned about people who really are directly involved in the oil shale industry in social terms. And, of course, people have to be helped. You have just said that the aim is to protect jobs, and of course it is essential. Ida-Viru jobs need to be protected and people's livelihoods need to be guaranteed. My question: why has a tax measure been chosen in order to do so, and also a tax measure in support of mines? In fact, oil shale mining volumes have fallen for two years in a row. It cannot be said that the price of diesel has somehow risen exponentially during the last crisis, rather the opposite. Why has this measure been chosen, rather than, for example, a job support measure, which could be fully implemented under the block exemption and which we did in 2016 in a similar crisis situation? You might want to open up these discussions a little bit. What were the arguments why helping people was rejected and decided to help fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U208	Thank you. It wasn't decided to help fuel. Still people, by reducing fuel prices or input prices. I don't know if I particularly like oil shale. I would say that I like it if we reasonably use our natural resources, which are different resources. It's still part of smart management. And the tax measure, well, I come back to the fact that these are the proposals that the sector made to us. The sector made proposals, both on tax proposals on input prices and on proposals on labour taxes, as well as on environmental charges. Plus the proposal to implement a specific labour market measure, which essentially meant subsidising. These are the proposals we received from them. We negotiated, calculated and agreed on them. In principle, in the end, the question went back to what amount we could generate, I mean, the amount that would be either in the hands of these companies or reduce costs. I am quite sure that this next measure, the so-called ash measure, likes just as little as the diesel measure, does not make any difference here in the end. The amount is what is really important to us, in fact, with what measure we will be able to bring together the amount that the sector says is the amount from which we have already received aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U209	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U210	Thank you. Dear Minister, I still come back to a fundamental question that I asked before. You replied here that the oil shale industry and this new economy in Ida-Virumaa could be developed in parallel with the green economy and new jobs. This first half is, yes, clear: here you have the measures. But I am just asking about this other side, this so-called new economy. This also relates to these new European funds. It is not possible to use this fair transfer fund money in the oil shale industry, even if the oil shale industry becomes more resource efficient. The amount of the fair transfer fund with a common debt will now be fivefold. Its use requires an action plan, a vision of what these new jobs will be. I wonder if you have an understanding of what these new jobs in the green energy economy are. And are there any drafts coming that support the creation of such jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U211	Thank you. Well, there were now questions for the Minister of Education, the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Regional Affairs. I guess these are the issues in their field. But on the other hand, if someone had a good answer, what would be the new and nice jobs we create with the euro money, maybe it would have been figured out and called out. One reason why we don't spit in the old well before the new one is ready is that there isn't yet a new well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U212	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Somehow you said about these companies, or about Eesti Energia, that we're keeping him on the water and he might reach zero. I think it's a stranger to life to think it's enough for the people of Ida-Viru County. It was a remark. I'd like some clarification. You said that, in the meantime, there have been some regulations in the field of the environment that are redundant. What's the intervening time? What regulations did you have in mind, and have the government decided to change them? It'd be nice to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U214	Thank you. I was thinking above all of environmental charges, which have been changed. I need to think about the time frame, I can't tell you the exact time. But it was a time when there were high and inflexible charges, which were replaced by environmental charges, which depend on market prices and which clearly help the sector to operate better in line with what is happening on the world market. The same ash premium that we will be talking about here next was not lowered, although the ash itself was recategorized, its category of environmental damage was changed. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U215	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U216	Thank you. Good waitress! I do not quite believe that these three companies are able to adjust themselves immediately for any existing measure. As far as I'm concerned about this production process, in many parts it's still possible. This should still be possible given the size of these companies. And I also point out that, by the number of redundancies we hear about all the time, I do feel that we should already have a negative number of employees in these companies, at least in some of them, all the time being made redundant. But I have this question: did you think a little about the government that suddenly these companies are primarily based on their own interests, i.e. the interests of their owners, and less on the interests of the state, the interests of the local people? To find another solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U217	Thank you. Well, one of them is state-owned or owner interest is basically state interest. In this sense, it is not quite the case that the interest of the company and the interest of the State is in any way conflicting or that the interest of the sector and the interest of the State are conflicting. And I hope we keep thinking about the government. It's not like we're doing this without thinking. However, unemployment statistics are still quite crisp in that Ida-Viru County has seen an increase in unemployment this year and also the highest number of unemployed people during the crisis. So it's not like there's just threats and some kind of bluff. People actually become unemployed there and become unemployed precisely in this sector. Of course, we would like there to be no redundancies at all, but if we were to target it, we should think of you as much as we do. But, of course, it is always possible for Maris Lauri to go to the management of companies and say that you were not properly able to apply for support from the unemployment fund and that is how it must be done. Maybe they'll get the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U218	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U219	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm gonna ask my second question from a careful angle. Of course, it is not possible to reorganize the oil shale sector in one day and, of course, the people who work there are doing a good job. But despite your answers, I have a question of how much you have talked about retraining and further training. There's engineering competence, there's production competence. Perhaps the region could be attracted to new investments both from Estonia and from outside, as well as investments in renewable energy. There's plenty of room for sun parks and everything else. These things seem to me to be equally weighty, they could be discussed while managing the transition from fossil energy to climate-neutral.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U220	Thank you. Well, Tanel Rock was here for hours on the remote, half your question is for him. But, in fact, we have quite a lot of talk about this, we have talked to the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Education and the business itself about retraining and further training. We have talked about the fact that people who lose their jobs there could be directed to other areas of Estonia. It's what's going on all the time. Moreover, it is this very fair transition fund that has a very strong emphasis on this particular activity, let us say, the financing of various labour market measures, plus the development of various non-fossil energy sources. All these things are happening. Are they taking place as efficiently and as quickly as necessary? Well, it could probably be more efficient and on a larger scale and faster. But it's not like anyone's ever thought about these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U221	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U222	Thank you. I will now come to the affairs of the Minister of Finance. Let me remind you that you are a representative of the government and therefore you must also be able to answer questions concerning the Minister of Social Affairs or the Minister of Education. First of all, this measure will certainly involve expenditure on the budget. What is the source of this cost? Is this going to be an additional budget correction? What do they do that for? And from now on, will there be exceptions to other mines?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U223	Thank you. I would point out that in two years, the cost will be 8.5 million. This year it will be 2.2 million, next year, 2021, when this measure is operational, 4.3 million, and in 2022 it will be 1.4 million. And this year's cover is a government reserve; in the coming years, of course, it will already be planned into the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U224	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U225	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. The Finance Committee discussed the amendment of the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel and the related draft law on the amendment of the Tax Administration Act to be sent to first reading, including on 2 June. The draft was presented by Mr Helme, Minister of Finance, as representative of the initiator. The draft provides for a reduction in costs for oil shale mining companies by allowing them to temporarily use specialty diesel fuel. The draft authorises the use of special fuel in oil shale mines and quarry territories, in quarry machinery and equipment, including mining machinery, and in oil shale and ash transport machinery. No driving on public roads using fuel with special markings shall be permitted. Specially labelled diesel can be used during the period from 1 July to 30 June 2022. The Commission's discussions discussed whether the deadline of 30 June 2022 is justified or whether it should be as we have in the Electricity Duty Act that fuel rates will expire on 30 April 2022. The initiator of the draft act agreed with the Commission's view that it could be incorporated as a proposed amendment. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the Riigikogu agenda by Monday, 8 June, to close the first reading, to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 10 June and to appoint a speaker before you as a Commission rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U226	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? On behalf of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U227	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Minister presented us here a part of the so-called oil shale rescue package. He did it here as unconvincingly as he did in the Commission. There is no big picture or understanding of what is the purpose of this step, how it fits into the situation of the sector and the prospects for the future. A number of weaknesses emerged in relation to various issues. We do not understand why such choices were made. The sector came and said! Is that really what it's like to be a company and say I want it, and then the government decides that this is what I'm going to take, that I'm going to leave, but I don't think that suddenly some other solution would be better and more useful. Yes, there may be something useful about these proposals, but there may not be. It's worth thinking about. It hasn't been done. A tax measure is used. Tax measures are, in principle, an extremely risky measure, by way of exception. A colleague here raised the issue of State aid. I read these materials, I admit, I didn't seem convincing. So the risk of breaching State aid rules is, in my opinion, entirely present here. Will the oil shale industry last, and how long will it last? Electricity produced from oil shale is rather uncompetitive; it has few moments in which it can cope, although yes, there is one important aspect: the existence of this capacity is certainly necessary simply in terms of security of energy supply, so it makes sense to keep it safe. Unlike the Minister, I doubt that oil shale oil will be competitive in the long term, even in the medium term, and actually seems to be in the short term. We have to look at the price of CO2, we have to look at the price of oil. The price is low, even if it has risen. And where does that oil go? The oil goes to the ships. Environmental rules in shipping are tightening up. I mean, this potential market is actually narrowing. It is fundamentally wrong to draw conclusions from the past on what will happen in the future. You can count on that, but it's extremely risky, especially what's being done now. There will be no real action. The Minister did not answer the question of the price level at which the sector would function. Probably because this price level is significantly higher even after this or the next measure is implemented. The Minister denied the possibility that there would continue to be some exceptions, in which case the money would probably be distributed to those who would apply and say that, you know, we would like one exception, be good and do it. This package is unconvincing, this bill is unconvincing. It's a aimless whacking over a sign that we've kind of done. This is not actually done in the interests of Ida-Virumaa, because it does not look forward to the future. It makes sense to keep the industry alive during the transitional period, but you should know what the future will be. It does not appear from these drafts and from the Minister's point of view, which is why the Reform Party proposes to reject this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U228	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U229	Since no one from my group's leadership is present, I note that these are my own thoughts. The Minister sees, of course, this fight against environmental policy, which has been agreed in Europe and also in Estonia, as a certain ideological struggle, as his fellow thinkers in the United States do. I understand that politically. Sometimes it's not very convincing, and sometimes it's a little more convincing, but essentially, you have to remember two things. Firstly, the year was 2016 when the oil shale sector was experiencing a major crisis. And now the minister is talking about how a lot has been made and learned over the last year and that now there is a lot going on here, both of which. Actually, it's all déjà-vu, in the sense that it's all been. In 2016, it was said that you will see, we will cancel these environmental charges, then we will survive the crisis, and that is when we get the oil and electricity price-dependent oil shale resource fee, that is all, we want nothing more. I remember those words exactly. I was a member of the government back then. We did the things that were mentioned here in recognition, but you see, it still sucks. As we enter this crisis, the oil shale sector, unlike many other sectors, has already received State aid, through the fact that we are subject to price-dependent taxation of oil shale resources, which means that the costs of these inputs have already fallen automatically. In other sectors, such as permitstone mining, no such thing has happened that you see, business got worse and automatically no longer has to pay the resource fee for lime. There's no such thing! There's already a burning stone, but it's not enough. I don't suspect specific companies of greed. Of course, it is not enough, it is a very complex business that must be maintained, and it is going strongly against all global policies, including the European Union and Estonia's environmental policies. But they must try to do so, of course, there is no doubt about that. The question is how the country reacts. Whether every time an application comes, we simply reduce their costs, give them incentives and advantages, or we have a strategic view of the way in which the necessary transition should take place. The Minister said that you see almost everything you do in the economy has to do with state aid. Of course it is, and must be, because one of the most fundamental questions in a market economy is whether the state intervenes fairly, whether equal treatment is actually guaranteed. This is both the principle of the Estonian Constitution and, of course, the principle of European rules and, consequently, it is extremely important. I am very pleased that a respected member of the government is so appreciative and with such great confidence, he views the official body of the Republic of Estonia. He hasn't always done that. But maybe on this issue, it is worth making it clear to yourself. We have heard the Ministry's statements in the case of Estonian Air, for example, that everything is under control, we have all the state aid issues resolved, here are all specific provisions-paragraphs. However, no one really got worse and it ended with the company's bankruptcy, because state aid will, of course, have to start paying back. But not the Government of the Republic to the European Union, but, in fact, companies to a country that, of course, worsens their economic situation. Now constructive proposals. In my opinion, this measure is simply wrong, and I am not saying it at all because of spite. When we talk about social problems, we talk about ensuring employment, it is very important, it certainly needs to be done. As a person from Ida-Virumaa, who has been chosen twice there, I know these problems and concerns, of course. They need to be resolved. In 2016, in addition to tax or economic policy measures, we actually implemented a specific programme, a social specific programme, to create jobs in Ida-Virumaa. In fact, learning from that experience could now have been done again even better targeted. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U230	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U231	This would have been very well suited to this block exemption regulation, since the block exemption regulation really allows support for workers in disadvantaged socio-economic situations and for disadvantaged regions under special conditions. And it would not be a problem, but, on the contrary, it would have been very wise to think that, if we generally have labour market measures for the whole country, perhaps it would be wise to introduce additional labour market measures for a particular region or for a sector with a very significant economic impact in that region, under separate conditions, which would really keep employment in that region. 'Cause look what's happening right now. We can talk about giving us ten million here and ten million there from the next bill, and as a result, people will not be made redundant. Well, if we compare these sums to the labour costs of these companies, they're really köki-möki, let's be honest. But with such a great utresis, these companies can welcome the fall in excise duty on special-marked diesel and pay redundancy benefits to all workers who are fired from their very profitable and good jobs, as the Minister said. Because if the price of oil remains low, the price of electricity remains low, the price of CO2 remains at the level where it is now, then in fact, the core of their so-called business is not sustainable in the next six months, one year, two years. And then the money saved with the cut in excise duty is nicely taken and it pays the redundancy payments. The alternative would be a labour market measure specifically aimed at maintaining employment in the oil shale industry, delaying and preventing redundancies. Then we would actually meet the social objective of keeping the people who work in this sector working in this recessional phase of the economic cycle. And then, when the economy recovers, there would be no need for it. This would be a precisely, rightly and rightly targeted measure to really help the region, to help people. What is being done now is, of course, not helping these companies in the big picture. It's a small drop of goodwill by the government of these three corporate honey pots. But in what way it will actually have an impact on employment, social coping, this will be a pretty modest effect. So, in fact, this problem could have been solved quite directly and, in my opinion, this could have been a common goal in this Chamber. It is precisely that the people of Ida-Viru can work in this crisis and are not made redundant so that employment in the region can actually be maintained. However, it has been found, I think, to a large extent from relative laziness, that it is the easiest to implement this type of measure. Indeed, the formulation and negotiation of a targeted labour market measure requires certain intellectual work and capabilities and a desire for discussion. This bill is just a convenient way to show that we're doing something, but it's unfortunately very little and not the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U232	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland of Aivar Kokk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U233	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the last two speeches, I had a desire to come here once and put it to all of you that there are always two sides: one is entrepreneurship and the other is the social side. To tell you here that the oil shale industry is no longer needed in Estonia... I would like to remind you that Estonia is in a good way a special country that has so far been able to cover the electricity needs thanks to oil shale itself. Due to different conditions, this share has fallen and we have contributed very much to renewable energy, both wind farms and solar panels, but we also have mineral resources that can cover electricity needs for long decades to come. Of course, those countries that do not have such assets want one. Let us look at the various trades between countries that have benefited from various concessions and special conditions for coal extraction. In the next ten years, how can they mine and put stones in their ovens in a different way? The Estonian oil shale industry may not have done so well. But we always have to think that there are 5,600 people working in the oil shale industry now, plus those working on subcontracting and assistance. This order of magnitude is still 2,000 people. I agree with Evgen that the amount allocated is extremely small compared to the total cost that the oil shale sector spends on its employees in wages and taxes. But we get 50 million back from there every year in the form of labour taxes, with all the other taxes, another 60 million. And on the other hand, if this measure can support this sector for the next two years, in times of crisis, then perhaps this sector will emerge alive and healthy. So I think that the amount that this draft and the next draft provide for support for this sector is relatively small compared to the benefit of how much the state receives back from it as taxes, plus the retention of jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U234	Thank you. Riho Breivel on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U235	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike many others, I have grown up on oil shale, and because of this, I am as I am. It must be said that, of course, pumping energy from oil shale is in a way expensive and polluting to nature. But as the previous speaker said, we will not be able to escape oil shale electricity so soon. As for oil, yes, it can be said that it is used in ships and here and where pollution still occurs. Or, in fact, if we look at the technologies that are now being developed, they are not already technologies that were 20, 30 or 50 years ago. This oil will be produced differently in the future and will be cleaned differently. Our oil shale institute dealt with this long ago and sought these solutions. In the meantime, it has stopped, but now it has been raised again and there are both hydrogen technologies and others. And let's still look at the number of people in Ida-Virumaa who are now getting jobs and bread thanks to the oil shale sector. One side is indeed the number of people involved in producing oil shale itself, but the other side is the one who handles them. Our whole neighborhood earns a lot from oil shale. I wish the people who haven't even held the oil shale in their hands wouldn't have to tell me they want me to have a better life. I can look after it myself, and the rest of the people in our neighborhood can look after it. Of course, Evgeni is right that this money is not great, which comes from the government, and, of course, perhaps the use of oil shale in the future is not what we think and wish for now. But if we don't approach like this, we don't even approach with a little bit, we don't get a big one. So let's think about Ida-Viru County from the point of view of the Eastern virulan! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U236	Thank you. Jevgeni Ossinovski, reply to the word, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U237	Thank you! Sometimes Mr. Breivel doesn't blame me for not holding the oil shale. I've done it many times, just like he certainly has. In response to Mr Koka: indeed, the question is not that the oil shale industry in Ida-Virumaa at the moment of the crisis would not need the support of the state to maintain jobs in order to prevent a social disaster if the market recession caused by low oil shale prices lasts for a long time. And that could happen. The question is that these measures, which are now proposed, are the lowest hanging fruit, which has also been relatively rotten. They've been hanging there for a long time. No one's been picking them up so far. And the reason is very simple: in fact, it gives the wrong incentive on the one hand. We provide this support at the cost of environmental mitigation, which is essentially not justified. And secondly, it's not financially large enough to give the real effect. Instead, as I said in my speech, there could be much greater support for the labour market in Ida-Virumaa and for workers in the oil shale sector by means of a specially designed labour market measure. Then perhaps it would be possible to ensure that employment in Ida-Viru County is not affected by the difficulties of the oil shale sector as a result of low oil prices. This is what the government could actually have done. And that is what I think Parliament could essentially consider between two readings when the first reading is completed. This measure could be made more socially targeted and, as such, more effective. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U238	Thank you. The political groups do not wish to negotiate any more, but the Minister has asked for the floor for the negotiations. Please, Minister Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U239	Thank you. Some of the statements remained in my ear, which I think needs to be resolved. The question of whether the oil shale sector, oil shale mining, oil shale oil has a future or no future is basically a question of faith. It's not like we're trying to talk each other out of it. Indeed, I think the current government believes that this sector is promising. This has been and will be profitable in the future, and the state-owned company will also be profitable. I can see clearly that there's a brain cramp here, that all kinds of tax exemptions are bad things, because they're just bad things. But I would remind you that the use of special fuel in oil shale mines has never been before. So it's not a low-hanging rotten fruit, but it's something that's already been used, and successfully. And I don't understand the story about the transformation. It is clear that when it comes to oil shale mining, the transformation of the oil shale industry, it is a pure euphemism for closure, because there is no explanation for what would then be done to oil shale in the future. If you listen here to this criticism, you do not understand what is a vision or where there is a vision. There is talk of some other areas for which these people should be retrained, but what happens to oil shale or what happens to our enhancement of mineral resources is not offered. I only agree with one thing: yes, labour market measures could have been an option. That was one of the choices. That would have been, by the way, a higher cost to the state budget. The sector would probably have liked it as much in this sense, but when considering all these possible options in the government, it was found that it was also possible to support excise duties on fuel, plus environmental charges. And no one is pretending that the sector is now overcoming its problems or that this "good" economic situation will recover in a few months. That is why we are doing our measure for at least two years. We're talking about a minimum of a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U240	Thank you. That concludes the negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 203, but since the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has proposed to amend the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels and, in this connection, to reject the draft Act amending the Tax Administration Act at first reading, we will proceed to the vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to amend the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuel and, in this connection, to reject the draft Act amending the Tax Administration Act at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 26 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 48 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The draft therefore remains in the process. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 10 June at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U241	We are moving forward, today's 4th item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I beg the Secretary of Finance Martin Helme to waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U242	Dear Deputy Speaker! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will bring before you a draft amendment to environmental charges initiated by the government at its meeting on 28 May. The purpose of the draft is to reverse the level of pollution charge for the deposition of oil shale and bottom ash with retroactive effect from 1 January 2020. This would fall from EUR 2,98 to EUR 1,31 per tonne of ash. The measures of the Coronary Crisis have also had a significant impact on the Estonian oil shale sector. The Estonian oil shale oil reference product, which is 1% sulphur fuel oil, has fallen from a level of USD 500 per tonne at the beginning of the year to USD 130 per tonne. That was so at the end of April. As the oil shale industry directly employs 5600 people, it is particularly important to contribute to the functioning of the sector as an important employer by reducing expenditure. Consequently, crisis measures have been proposed for oil shale companies to mitigate the consequences of the crisis. One measure is to temporarily reduce the costs of the oil shale industry by lowering the pollution charges for the disposal of waste. On the basis of the proposal, the level of the pollution charge for the deposition of oil shale and bottom ash will be reduced from EUR 2,98 to EUR 1,31 per tonne. The legal basis for the amendment is that the fly ash and bottom ash of oil shale have been classified as non-hazardous ice since 1 January this year. According to the Environmental Charges Act, one basis for setting the pollution charge is the dangerous nature of the substance. The basis for the implementation of the pollution premium has therefore changed compared to the previous one. The Environmental Charges Act already applies to non-hazardous waste, i.e. waste generated by the oil shale industry, a fee of EUR 1.31 per tonne. On the basis of our proposal, the rate of flying ash and bottom ash will also be reduced to the same level. As a result of the change, the costs for oil shale companies for 2020 for the deposition of fly ash and bottom ash will be around EUR 10.4 million lower. In addition, according to the draft, all rates of waste disposal from oil shale mining and processing will be analysed as a whole and proposals will be submitted to the Government of the Republic by 15 October of this year. The analysis includes the fly ash and bottom ash of oil shale, the semi-coke of oil shale and the herbaceous earth. The main objective of the waste premium is to motivate companies to redesign their activities according to the waste hierarchy. Since landfilling is the lowest level of waste management that needs to be minimised, the analysis must show how to achieve as effectively as possible a higher oil shale recovery indicator. The implementation of the proposal resulting from the analysis is foreseen by the draft law from 2021. The specific implementation deadline gives a clear indication that the rates will be reviewed and the change is planned to take place as soon as possible. The analysis is carried out by the Ministry of the Environment in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance. I would add that, as has been said in the previous draft, this draft package includes the application of a preferential rate of diesel to the oil shale sector. Thank you. I am happy to answer your questions and, of course, I call for support for the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U243	Thank you, Minister. You really do have questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U244	Thank you! First of all, just a remargina. As the Minister pointed out in his report, the price of oil has fallen from $500 a ton to 130. I quickly checked that this means that if the mining fee for $500 was €4.5 per tonne, then now it is €0.275 per tonne. Thus, some EUR 4,5 per tonne of State aid has already been granted. And also, we are talking once again about only EUR 1.5 for this ash deposition: 1.31 versus 2.98 just so little ambition again in essence. But my question concerns state aid. The situation is a little different here, there is no block exemption and a little bit dimmed: I do not know whether state aid is really necessary here. I don't think there's a plan to file a State aid application. Can you open up the question of State aid in this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U245	Thank you. Well, you can always propose to lower this rate in the course of the draft procedure in order to be more ambitious. 0.28 please, I welcome you with two hands. All the taxes and taxes are lowered, you will find me a co-thinker. On State aid, I'm about to see if I have anything smart written in my notes. It is written in the notes that according to § 3 (6) of the Environmental Charges Act, one basis for setting the pollution charge is the danger of the substance. Oil shale fly ash and bottom ash have been classified as non-hazardous waste in both the European Union and Estonia since 2020 and the basis for applying the pollution charge has changed compared to before. The reduction in the level of the levy for the deposition of coal and bottom ash applies equally to all undertakings producing this type of waste and paying the pollution premium on the basis of its disposal. Therefore, this reduction of the deposit fee is not selective. In the light of the above, all undertakings in the same factual and legal situation are equally applied and the proposed amendment does not therefore fulfil the condition of Article 107 (1) TFEU, i.e. selectivity. We have therefore come to the conclusion that the proposal does not constitute State aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U246	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U247	I read: environmental charges, and I look forward to the good minister of the remote, Rene Kokka, but I find that the rapporteur is Minister of Finance Martin Helme. How do you explain that the Minister of the Environment is not talking about environmental charges?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U248	Thank you. It's important to find out. As I have said many times: the reduction of this ash premium is part of the package to help the oil shale sector. During the initial phase of this package, there were a wide range of ideas on the table, ranging from labour taxes, excise duties, different taxes. And, broadly speaking, it was possible that this bill would have to be defended either by the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for the Environment or the Minister for Finance, depending on what would eventually be left of this package. Since there was a tax measure left, and this measure is, in fact, a budgetary measure, I will not tell you which way was it, whether there was a push to get the remote control, or if there was a push that didn't come here, but it was me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U249	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U250	Honourable Vice President! Good minister! For information on the previous question, I can add that the Committee on the Environment has now been left 48 hours to formulate an opinion on this draft. I'm sure we'll try. The question is about the amounts of environmental charges that are not collected. Are there any environmental projects that will not be completed as a result now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U251	Thank you. The environmental tax related to ash is directly received by the state budget. It's not "marked" money. We were also talking, for example, about reducing the fee for the specific use of water, but since it finances environmental investments, we did not get to action. Let's put it this way: there would have been someone to take the money away from, but this money will be transferred to the budget, and this year we will be covering the reduction in the revenue from this budget from the government reserve. If we are now doing the change in these charges, and this is already done by the Ministry of the Environment, on the basis of its long-term plans and analyses, this is already reflected in the state budget for next year. But right now, nothing is being taken away from anyone except the government reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U252	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U253	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law does not state what is the cost of the measure and does not justify why it is done retroactively. Let me remind you that the COVID crisis did not start us here in Estonia on 1 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U254	Thank you. But that's what I said here in my speech, why is that? Firstly, because the same risks to the environment of ash have been re-evaluated since the beginning of the year. And the cost is estimated at EUR 10.4 million in 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U255	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U256	Thank you. Mr. Minister! There is one strange additional paragraph in this draft, where the Ministry of the Environment is obliged to carry out an analysis. That's not normal. Typically, this analysis is decided by the Government of the Republic and it is not necessary to write down any disparaging points in the law. Why have you decided to write such an analysis into the law this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U257	To give Parliament confidence that the talk about the draft, that all fees will be reviewed next year and taken into account next year, would have been confirmed by your own vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U258	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U259	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The explanatory memorandum states that by the end of April the reference price for oil shale oil fell from $500 per tonne to $130 per tonne. I was curious about what futures are showing right now. They've gone up to $326 and up. Is such support still necessary in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U260	Thank you. That's nice! Some time ago, everyone said hopeless will die anyway, don't help, because they're going to die anyway. Now they say don't help, because they're doing too well. So what do we do now? The fact is that the two or three months that have been in Estonia, let's say, not so much a special situation as an emergency situation in the broadest sense, has been a major devastation in different sectors of the economy as a whole. This has created very serious liquidity problems for companies. We believe that this assistance is still necessary for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U261	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U262	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Your response gave the impression that it was like a new attitude of the government that in the future all the government's intentions and dreams would be written into law and government decisions and regulations would become somewhat irrelevant papers. Don't you think that this trend is disrupting Estonia's legal space? Couldn't you consider in the government a proposal to expel this clearly destructive point in the legal space from the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U263	I'm not arguing about it. If Parliament wants to throw it out of there, nothing will change.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U264	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U265	Thank you. In the context of State aid, the substantive argument is based on what you read in your statement that the granting of aid is not selective. This is due to the requalification of a specific pollutant and consequently to the reduction of the pollution charge. There's an internal logic in this argument. If the whole case of State aid is built on this logic that we simply harmonise the rates of charges with those of other pollutants, then the question is that if, in essence, these substances should be treated equally, as is apparent from the explanatory memorandum, then why, for flight ash and bottom ash, this rate is set at the same level as the others for only one year. If Parliament does not take a new decision, the old rates will be back again from 1 January 2021. Is this step not a little bit of a state aid?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U266	Thank you. Now here we are. It was your colleague who insisted that we do not commit ourselves to creating a new hierarchy of rates for next year. What else can I say, except that the government has a clear political will to review this entire price list next year, to sort it out. To mark this, the relevant section of the law was included. I find it politically relatively impossible for us to let this degree of click back next year to the level where it is now, but the strangest things happen in the world. We certainly have a clear desire, and it was also agreed in the drafting that these fees would be reviewed and logically aligned with each other next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U267	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U268	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I have two questions, I ask them both to answer. You missed the first one. Why back up? I'm asking for a clear answer. Secondly, I come to the answer to my colleague's previous question. Is it necessary to understand that a review means that fees are reduced and environmental savings or damage will be less taxed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U269	We can go over it again. The legal basis for the amendment is that oil shale fly ash and bottom ash are qualified as non-hazardous ice as from 1 January 2020. According to the Environmental Charges Act, one of the bases for setting the charges is the danger of the substance. From the beginning of the year, this ash is no longer dangerous ice, but the price for hazardous waste is still being asked. And since we're changing this charge on this basis, it makes sense that we're changing it retroactively. I don't know what's going on here. As for the review, I cannot tell you what the analysis of the Ministry of the Environment tells us today. But as an input, we have given the principle that fees are logically linked, firstly, and secondly, to how dangerous these substances are, and thirdly, they must not be too burdensome for business. So if you're asking me if that means the fees are going to go down, you can hope, right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U270	Honourable Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. I now ask for a presentation on behalf of the committee by Mr Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Chair Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U271	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act 204 for the first reading on 2 June. The draft was presented by Mr Helme, Minister of Finance, as representative of the initiators. The draft provides for a reduction in the costs of oil shale mining companies, allowing them to temporarily pay a lower pollution premium in the deposition of the fly ash and bottom ash of oil shale. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 8 June this year and to propose that the first reading be closed, that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 10 June and that the Commission be appointed as rapporteur before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U272	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No questions for you. The representatives of the political groups now have the opportunity to make speeches. On behalf of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U273	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U274	Three minutes extra. So 5 plus 3 is 8.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U275	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. We now have, as if, this package to help the oil shale industry, its second draft law. I agree with my colleague, Mr Ossinovski, that it has not been very difficult to think about them. He said it out loud, I tried to be more polite in the last speech. Yeah, well, if you don't understand why and what they're doing and where they're trying to get to, then there's a really weird thing coming together. But it feels like something should be done. Well, to say that some kind of rule allows you to change things, and then we're going to make this thing go away, it's not really a substantive argument. We can set this thing up from any date, okay? The fact that you write into the law of doing analyses is, yeah, one of those crazy things that started to start during the previous government. It's like they're trying to make sure they're still working on it. However, the practice is, unfortunately, that no matter what analyses are written into the law, adherence to them is what happens. Because there's no punishment, is there? You can go on and say it's okay. It has been said here that there are no ideas and how the oil shale sector can still be moved forward. In a large number of countries, including Estonia, there are mineral resources in the earth. Just because they're there doesn't mean you have to use them. They can be used, but nobody tells you to use them anywhere. They should be used when urgently needed and when no other alternatives exist. Oil shale was once the only option for Estonia. Its history goes back more than a century, including wartime. Then there was a need for it, and we've used it later. All signs show that this need will decrease in the future and will decrease because its extraction is polluting to the environment. And not only is it polluting the environment, but it is actually also a very seriously damaging activity to human health, as generally all mining and chemical industries tend to be. What the oil shale industry has done to the health of local people is very clearly visible, which is long known. The Soviets did not want to talk about it very much, but the reality is that it affects people's health so that you can see from a hundred meters how it works when you go from one industry to another, and it is bad. There are many aspects, including ash. And now to say that there's no trouble with the ashes... The people of Kohtla-Järve have been in trouble with the smell for some time now, I don't know if they're going to be given a chance to enrich their lives with ashes and soot. I hope not. What is really needed? Here I refer again to Mr Ossinovski, who spoke about a labour market measure that could be implemented. This measure really needs to be adjusted a little, but it would be a viable solution. Looking further ahead, it really is not the case that the oil shale industry must necessarily be shut down. There are a lot of different things you can do from the shale and use them in very different ways. But one of the first things the current government rejected was the plans and agreements for increased funding for R &amp; D. This, however, would be essential: study, see what can be done. There's actually quite a lot of invented, there's quite a lot of ideas, but there's still to be implemented. Labour market measures, so-called retraining, are more or less good, but can always do better. Then there is the business environment, which in Ida-Virumaa has a great deal to do with industrial parks, and they also have their own successes. But things could, of course, be better, and in the long run you could look at it. And there's another option that doesn't actually take a cent, it doesn't even require the law to be passed. The current government could really do this, and it depends precisely on the government. In fact, as we know and as the press has written last week, Erik Gamzeyev, for example, in so many municipalities, the style of leadership is very strange in terms of mild expression. This means that you must have a good relationship with certain people, certain local entrepreneurs, to do business. I am not even talking about procurement, where the winners tend to be just "the right crowds." Maybe we could fix this. Entrepreneurs do not want to come to an area where things tend to get corrupt. Businesses want a stable environment. This would be a very simple step for the government to take: to call the local authorities to order. It would be particularly easy for one of the government departments to do this because it is his home area. So, in addition to so-called constructive measures, such a proposal by me. Overall, this package is unthinkable, controversial and actually does not solve problems in essence. It's, like we heard, a kind of mush in the sense that we don't know why they do it either way or the way they do it. The Reform Party therefore proposes to reject the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U276	Thank you. There are no more requests for speaking. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 204 and we have the proposal of the Reform Party Group to reject this draft at first reading, which we must vote on. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Reform Party Group to reject bill 204 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 16 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of this proposal and against 44 members of the Riigikogu. The draft will remain in order. First reading is over. The deadline for amendments is 10 June at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U277	Let us begin the debate on the fifth item. This is the request for information on the budget and tax policy measures for micro and small enterprises submitted on 22 April by the members of the Riigikogu Jaak Juske, Heljo Pikhof, Lauri Läänemets, Ivari Padari, Helmen Küti, Indrek Saare, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Katri Raigi and Raimond Kaljulaid. Lauri Läänemetsa, representative of the speakers of the stand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U278	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The health crisis left very many people in Estonia working. For some, it has been temporary, but for many, it has been long-term. At the end of spring, the government brought to Parliament an additional budget of nearly EUR 2 billion this year, aimed at supporting those in trouble. A month and a half ago, when we asked for information, no one had a full overview of which grants and who will have them. Now we can say that our concern for coaches, taxi drivers, musicians, beauty attendants and others who worked under the debt treaty was justified. They were left alone. Today, we also know that for people doing similar work but working as self-employed workers, support for small businesses was created as aid measures, which could be asked by those who had achieved a turnover of at least EUR 20000 in 2019. If you look at the statistics, we can see: out of 17,000 self-employed people, it was almost 3,000 of the best earners who earned at least over average wages. These contributions were not granted to those who earned below average wages per month on average. In essence, most self-employed people are more ordinary workers than entrepreneurs: coaches, taxi drivers, beauty attendants, health care providers and others. When they ran out of work because of their emergency situation, no loan or loan guarantee helped them. You can buy a new hair dryer and a new doormat in the car, but if you can't work, your income will continue to be zero. The Social Democrats were and continue to be concerned that the government has time and money for large companies, but the person who finally does the job goes unnoticed again. On this basis, we asked Finance Minister Martin Helme the following questions: Which specific actions for self-employed workers will be financed from the first additional budget for 2020? What support measures for self-employed people are planned for the government to consider in relation to a possible second additional budget for 2020? Do you consider it necessary to introduce unemployment insurance for all recipients, including self-employed workers, in order to avoid pressure on the state budget during any future economic crisis? We look forward to answering questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U279	Thank you very much. To answer this question, Minister of Finance Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U280	Honourable Deputy Speaker! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will answer question No 33 and, as an introduction, I will get a white hand: for the first time, I will answer an inquiry. The first question is which specific actions for self-employed workers are financed from the additional budget. The non-refundable financial contribution specifically targeted at self-employed persons was the payment by the state of advances on social tax in the first quarter. The maximum amount of aid was EUR 534,5. Of the funds provided for in the first supplementary budget, the Tax and Customs Board transferred 7426 to the FIE pre-tax account a total of EUR 3.26 million. This money is freely available to entrepreneurs. If they had already paid advance payments, they can use the money to cover future payment obligations or transfer it to their personal bank account. In the case of a spouse participating in the company's activities, the self-employed person was also exempted from paying social tax for a period of three months, i.e. between March and May. During the period of exemption from social tax, the spouse maintained health insurance. In addition, the rules on taxation of forest income in the self-employed were relaxed. FIE may further deduct up to EUR 5000 from the proceeds of the disposal of timber harvested on its immovable property and the cutting rights of forest growing there and from Natura 2000 aid for private forest land during the tax period. The measure provides people with a more favourable opportunity to deal with forest management rather than selling forest land and helps to mitigate the effects of the economic downturn. The additional tax exemption shall be applied in the 2020 income tax return, which shall be submitted by 30 April 2021. In addition, self-employed persons could apply for aid measures available to all entrepreneurs through the EAS. For example, self-employed people who have at least one full-time equivalent job could apply for support from the business damages measure. EAS took a total of 1486 decisions to grant the aid, including 52 self-employed persons who received a grant of EUR 174000. Further, the tourism operator's compensation measure, which defined five target groups as beneficiaries, namely tourist accommodation companies, catering companies, tour operators, tourist attractions and tourism service companies. In the last two target groups, the applicant could also be self-employed. In the target group of tourism service providers, EAS has taken a total of 40 positive decisions, one of which was a self-employed person who received a grant of EUR 3000. It is also possible for self-employed persons to apply for KredEx guarantees and loan products. This is complemented by operational-specific grants. For example, the Ministry of Culture has planned grants for companies active in its field, including artists, who can also act in the form of self-employed persons. The aim of the various support measures has been to ensure the resumption and continuation of business after the end of the emergency situation. The second question: what support measures for self-employed people do the government intend to consider in relation to a possible second additional budget for 2020? I must grieve you and say that the government has not discussed the launch of a second supplementary budget this year. Thirdly, do you consider it necessary to introduce unemployment insurance for all recipients, including self-employed persons, in order to avoid any pressure on the state budget during the next economic crisis? On 21 May, the Government Office discussed proposals to extend the range of persons covered by unemployment insurance. The idea of securing both self-employed persons and members of the boards and boards of legal persons was discussed. It was decided that this could be done on a voluntary basis. More detailed conditions are being developed, the government will come back to the subject at the end of this month. Against this background, I would like to point out that self-employed people are a very broad target group and, in developing grants for them, we need to ask whether we want to compare them with workers or with businesses. Do we want to support the continuation of entrepreneurship, or do we want to direct people towards wage or entrepreneurship in another area? Measures will also depend on it. In addition, I note that labour market measures also actually have an impact on the state budget. So the unemployment fund is a separate social security fund. When it comes to unemployment insurance in particular, the need for unemployment fund services arises when the self-employed person has completed his or her previous business. These measures, which I have mentioned, have been aimed at continuing or reshaping activities. I'll bring in some statistics. If, between March and May 2020, a total of 1875 self-employed persons have entered in the Commercial Register for the cessation or suspension of their activities, this is actually a very small part of the total number of self-employed persons. I therefore dare to believe that extending unemployment insurance to them is not really a valid problem. I have been answered with this, but I am also happy to answer further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U281	Thank you very much, Minister. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U282	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The EUR 5 000 income tax exemption limit in forestry is a nice thing. It used to be around 2800 euros. This history of income tax exemption dates back to the time of the kroon, where the limit for income tax exemption was 40,000 kroons. Now, in forestry, this amount was raised to 5000, and this is nice, but why did this threshold remain the same for self-employed farmers: EUR 2870? Why have self-employed farmers not raised it like foresters to 5,000 euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U283	Thank you. I gotta be honest with you, I don't know how to answer that. Maybe we've missed it, maybe there's been some substantive counter-argument in some areas. But I'll have it examined.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U284	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for the overview of everything that has been done about the self-employed. And there's something done to the husbands. My question specifically concerns the possibility of participating in a measure. You yourself pointed out that it should be a full - time person. I was approached by a self-employed person with such a problem. There are four part - time employees, three of whom are family carers, and they do not have the opportunity to work full - time. And they do not qualify for this measure, the answer to this self-employed person was that you do not have a full-time employee. At the same time, we know that the allowance for the caretaker in some municipalities is EUR 40, although this is not the subject of this issue, you promised to raise it to at least a minimum wage when you got to the government. Why did this measure not take into account the fact that, if there are a certain number of people working part-time, it is still possible to offer work to young mothers or carers, for example? They will not receive this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U285	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U286	Thank you. I have to admit, I'm not sure they shouldn't have. It has been said that there should be a full-time equivalent. But self-employed, as I said, is a complicated form of entrepreneurship. In fact, we have tens of thousands of self-employed people, and only a small part of them gets their basic income by acting as self-employed persons. In most cases they earn some kind of side income as a self-employed person, and most of them, at least according to our statistics, or, let's say, on the basis of a statistical survey, we have drawn that conclusion, and we have actually benefited from the labour market measure. And we have decided very clearly that we will not make any rules that say that you can only benefit from one possible measure. If it is possible to get from several places, people can apply for it. Since the self-employed form of self-employment is very peculiar and very diverse, it was difficult for them to take a measure that would somehow be universally effective and relevant to everyone. In this sense, there have been cases like the one you brought out here, of course more, people have just fallen somewhere between several chairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U287	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U288	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You have read out the grants concerning this kind of more entrepreneurial activity. But, for example, taxi drivers and nail technicians, beauty attendants, small businesses. They did not have any other support, but small business support could have been requested. However, its condition was that their turnover in the previous year should have been between EUR 20000 and EUR 100000. Now, if you think of a nail technician, for example, I think that no one is able to put so much into art in a row to get at least that minimum amount that should be the average of six. All self-employed persons who earned below average wages could not, in essence, ask for this support. My question to you is: for what reason were these so-called wealthier self-employed people given this support and those who earned from the minimum wage to the average salary could not ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U289	Basically, the answer is that we assumed that those who have earned secondary income as self-employed persons had some other income, too, and they would fit into another measure. If we had started this range from scratch and led, I don't know, to the turnover of a medium or small enterprise, then this money would have been spent much faster and the beneficiaries might have been more, but some of them would have been those who received support from several sources and those who could only have obtained it would have been lost. That's the calculation we had. Did we aim quite accurately, correctly and honestly? Well, there are probably people who still missed out on one, the other and the third possible support, but that was the logic on which we came.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U290	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U291	Thank you. Good minister! My question concerns KredEx. With an additional budget, we have allocated 1.7 billion, and it is now known that a very small part of it has been used. Businesses say that KredEx sends them to a bank, that is the initial idea that the bank will receive a loan and a guarantee from KredEx, but the bank will send them to KredEx because the bank does not want to take the risk that these conditions entail. Have you planned to change these conditions so that entrepreneurs can actually access this money, so that it will help businesses as intended?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U292	Thank you. Yes, we are. This is an issue that has been up since we started planning these measures. There was an in-depth debate on how to make this money move as quickly as possible, how to make this money move without risking mass fraud or moving virtual money. What we clearly wanted to achieve is that the additional money put in KredEx would not be needed to insure the banks' old existing portfolios, so to speak, but that it would in particular motivate them to enter the market via banks. There have been clear bottlenecks that have been created by this so-called "circling in circles." Why aren't the guarantees working? There is a very simple reason: because a guarantee can be given on a loan already made and it is difficult to obtain a loan now. And it's hard to get a loan because for some reason the bank doesn't like or doesn't like this KredEx guarantee. We are working on changing these conditions. We are taking feedback from the market, both from businesses and banks, and we are trying to find a solution. Surely these conditions need to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U293	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U294	Good President! Good minister! My question is a little more general. An inquiry has been made on 22 April, today it is 8 June. It's been seven weeks. Doesn't it seem to you that such responses could take place at a faster pace than you are, but in principle, at a faster rate? In addition to the fact that the opposition is asking you interesting questions here in the evening, I believe that this discussion will also be interesting to you: it will create new ideas. And second of all, I'm sure we have viewers. I mean those small entrepreneurs who actually want to get answers to their questions. And that's one way to get answers from the minister. What do you generally think: would it not be reasonable for such responses to take place within a few weeks, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U295	Thank you. In my previous composition, I was always complaining about the fact that by the time the question was answered, the world had turned the other side. I agree. I have to say about this questioning that I was called last week and told that, ups, we forgot to send this question to the ministry, and now the deadline is up, are you ready to answer right now? I said, of course, I'm about ready to answer. In the end, however, we have a deadline of about ten working days to answer a written question, and in that time we will be able to answer everything and often even at a much more detailed level. All I can say is that the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu are a question of the Riigikogu Chamber itself. It won't stay behind me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U296	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U297	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm sorry if I have a few seconds to cross, but my question requires a little introduction. In particular, the General Regulation on these support measures states that it is necessary to ensure a non-discriminatory and transparent approach, both within each measure and in coordination with each other. Then under it are generated for obvious reasons hundreds of different measures And their consistency isn't always, say, quite perfect. In the event of a crisis, this is not a criticism; it has not always been thought out to the end. I have been approached by one of the creative industries that could in principle receive support from the Crisis Facility of the Ministry of Culture and from the EAS as part of the tourism attraction measure. The Ministry of Culture promises it, but the EAS regulation says that once it's obtained from the Ministry of Culture, you can't. But if you're not under the Ministry of Culture, but somewhere else, that would be possible. My question is: who is watching things like this? Is it a specific department or is it an official who could be approached with this type of concern to get explanations and perhaps find a solution to the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U298	Thank you. As I said before, we had a fundamental debate as to whether it should be excluded from receiving money from one place or another. We quite unanimously reached the position in the government that such exclusion should not be made. We did make the same regulation conditional that, if you've already applied elsewhere, you should mark it out. It will then be possible to assess whether you need it more than any other applicant who may not be able to get it elsewhere. All regulations are, in fact, even approved at the government level in the supplementary budget. And it's just to get everyone on the same table. Whether this is a mistake in a particular case, or whether it is a too keen interpretation of EAS at the application level, I cannot answer right away, but I will ask the EAS.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U299	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U300	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Colleagues here gave a number of examples where the self-employed who needed this support were deprived of it because they did not meet certain parameters. You patiently explained that you assumed that self-employed people would benefit from another source, that there were many such people. You wanted to support those whose remuneration comes from a single source and is within certain limits. I'm going to ask you this. Since we do not know what kind of objective situation awaits us in the autumn, we hope for the best, but never know, is it conceivable that you will review these conditions in some form, also considering that there will be more interesting subsidies from the European Union or at least they will be planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U301	Yeah, I'm sure it's conceivable. And it is certainly conceivable that when we see that the money put into some kind of measures will not be spent, we will move it around to where there is greater demand. So we are trying to be flexible, and we are trying to meet and implement the allocated money in a way that makes the most sense, would benefit most, or, let's say, the people most in need. The dimming of the regulations on these measures has, in fact, already been to the government once. The proposals to change them have already reached the government. This is definitely not a fossilized situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U302	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. It is possible to give speeches. First of all, do the heirs or the representative of the heirs want to give a speech? There is no wish to speak, and so there is no reason to ask the Minister if there is anything else to say. We have discussed this question, this item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-08_U303	Now we can all prepare to speak in a free microphone after the hammer strikes. Please register for speaking, if that is what you wish to do. There is no request to speak. The sitting is adjourned. Thank you very much. Closure of the sitting at 19.48 p.m.
