ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start the briefing. First, we'll run a presence check. There are 42 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 59. The following members of the Government will take part in the Question Hour: Minister for Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu Prime Minister, Minister for Justice Raivo Aeg and Minister for Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. As always, the speakers of the registered question get the floor, they also get the opportunity to clarify the question and also one member of the Riigikogu from the hall. We have two minutes to ask you a question, please stick to that two minutes! just three minutes for ministers and three minutes for ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U2	First we have Ivari Padar, who will ask the question to Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U3	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Indeed, I have some questions concerning recent foreign policy developments. Now we have the topic of Estonian-China relations up here in Estonia. We have taken a very reasonable position that the European Union must still have common positions in foreign policy relations. There is now an issue on which the Government of the Republic of Estonia has already taken a position: this is the peace plan proposed by Donald Trump in the Middle East. The Estonian Government has taken a position in support of this peace plan relatively quickly. I know that Jaak Madison, a Member of the European Parliament, has presented a draft resolution in support of this in the European Parliament. You have just returned from the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the European Union. What is the overall position of this peace plan in the European Union? How much of this is supported and has it not been premature for Estonia to take a quick stand?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U4	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The government formed a position that concerned the initial view. We welcome the initiative of the United States. Without the United States' contribution, the peace process in the Middle East, given its impact and proportion, is not conceivable. Secondly, however, this does not mean that all the concrete proposals of the peace plan are, in our opinion, in line with the principles of international law that have existed. But I think that is a good thing: the government's position is that it is a platform from which parties can move forward. And surely our interest is to encourage the parties to do so. On Monday, there was also talk about this at the debate of the Foreign Ministers of the European Union. I stressed there the need for this topic to be a separate item at the next meeting. I have proposed to both the American Foreign Minister and the High Representative for Foreign Affairs of the European Union, Josep Borelli, that it is very important to have a transatlantic dialogue on this issue. I have also called for a debate next month by the High Representative of the United States Administration to present his views. Now this question is whether the position of the countries of the European Union in these matters is clear and unambiguous. I think that these positions, which are more specifically believed, will become clear in the next debate in March. But given the historical context and current views, it can be assumed that they are certainly of different emphasis. However, this does not mean that our aim should not be to reach a common position within the European Union. Estonia actively contributed and also tabled its amendments to the joint statement by members of the UN Security Council from the countries of the European Union when the Middle East issue came to the discussion in the Security Council last Tuesday. In our proposal, we stressed the welcome of these various initiatives and the need for transatlantic cooperation. And the other Member States of the European Union, both permanent and temporary, of the Security Council, actually joined us. On the weekend, I had meetings with the Foreign Ministers of a number of countries in the Middle East, whom we also talked about. They considered the role and authority of the European Union to be important in the process. I also had a special meeting with the US Ambassador to the United Nations, who also stressed the importance of dialogue between the United States and the European Union. I would like to stress that the United States has indicated, when it comes to taking this initiative, that this is the beginning of the debate and that this will be followed, as are still the counter-proposals in the negotiations, other proposals. However, it is very important that there should be a form of negotiations. It is understandable that elections are at stake here, that the context also plays a role in the Middle East space, but our interest is certainly the solution of two countries, peace, as well as the prevention of terror in the region.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U5	Thank you. Ivari Padar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U6	Thank you. Can't say it's a fine-tuning question, just a question. We have also been up lately to be extremely careful in the European Union about all the issues that could be covered by the title 'territorial claims of the Second World War'. For good reason! I came into politics 25 years ago through a peasant party. Our three main postulates were NATO, the European Union and the border agreement with Russia. From the work of the European Parliament, I remember that such territorial claims were made by extreme right-wing politicians. I remember a Hungarian politician who turned out to be a GRU spy. The President of the Riigikogu has now stated his position on territorial claims in relations with Russia. Please explain this situation! Does the current government have any new plans in this light? As you know, so far, we have been based on the importance of joining the European Union, joining NATO, and being restrained on these issues over a period of 25 to 30 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U7	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that in this Chamber, the starting point, as defined in our Constitution and paid in our constitutional view, is once again emphasised by all consensus: the border line of the Republic of Estonia is determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty and other international agreements. Until any other agreements have entered into force bilaterally, of course, in our state-law perspective, as the Estonian people wanted when the Constitution was adopted, the previous agreement applies. However, I would like to stress that, if this is the case, whether this government has taken any decisions on the course of any other border line which is different from the border line or line path defined in 2014, then no such decision has been taken. However, the position taken is that we are not going to bring the border agreement to this Parliament during this government. This context, which I mean when I say this, is undoubtedly above all the notion that we must not take steps in the current context and in the light of the views of Russia in recent times, which would somehow tarnish our position of legal consistency in possible future international-law disputes. For me, the first issue now is the view denied by the Russian Federation in its bilateral relations with Estonia. This concerns history, the occupation of Estonia and its recognition. The second question relates to the recognition of the continuum of the Republic of Estonia that this is the continuity of the Republic of Estonia created in 1918 by the will of the right of the Estonian people to self-determination. So if there is a question of what is the constitutional view of Estonia, then it is that the Tartu Peace Treaty is in force. As regards practical bilateral steps in relations between countries, the starting point for me is that we are guided by the principle of legal continuity. We look at all our steps in practical relations between countries with this perspective so that we do not in any way detract from this position. As this risk exists, it has been pointed out by a number of experts who have warned about possible hasty steps, and a good questioner knows it better than I do. I would like to confirm once again that the question of the border line must undoubtedly be looked at in the perspective. As regards, in fact, the Tartu Peace Treaty as such, I do not consider it right to pee on the essence of Tartu Peace. This certainly is not the constitutional view of this government of the position of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This hall has been thrown down several times from this remote control that we seem to see a ghost in the fact that certain subjects in the government move like swans, cancers and pikes. This means that the top members of the government have different opinions and this is also reflected in our media and, therefore, in the international media. A good colleague, Ivar Padar, started it, and I would like to continue it. How do you think, Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs, it looks to the Estonian society as a whole and also to our allies, when the Chairman of the Riigikogu takes one line, you try to follow another line, and your party chairman has a third view? Will this benefit us in all this political dimension? Would it rather increase or humiliate our security, considering who our greatest neighbor is?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U10	The foreign policy course of the Government of the Republic of Estonia is continuous. The government is able to make decisions, and the government is also able to define an approach to issues where there is no consensus. Once again, I stress: we have no contradictions in what the government is looking at, what it is doing or not doing. This government has agreed that it will not present a border agreement in this form. This is such a negative position. Secondly, however, I would like to emphasise that if there is a question of whether the government has taken a decision on a possible new border line, that decision has not been taken by the government. This is a very clear concrete position now. And I wouldn't in any way undermine the political terms and conditions referred to by the Russian Federation officials in order to conclude a border agreement. Foreign Minister Lavrov has said that the Republic of Estonia must give up the Russophobic policy, a condition for concluding a border agreement. This is a political condition put forward by the foreign minister of another country. I do not underestimate the context in which we take steps in this context. These are political demands as additional conditions for the conclusion of a border agreement. As far as the consensus on foreign policy matters is concerned, you know, there is, of course, one level in the Estonian country. But when it comes to the country's foreign policy course and its international position, at the level of the European Parliament, it is much more important. I'm pointing to a good questioner party. You sent Igor Gräzini to the European Parliament as your representative, who opposed the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, who voted against the abolition of the death penalty in Estonia, was, in fact, very radical in terms of the dismantling of the European Union. You sent him to Europe, dear friends, as a representative of your party. When you acknowledged him on such a high level, it was actually a sign that this is the ongoing foreign policy vision of the Reform Party. But seriously, the reality is that this government is capable of making decisions on both foreign policy and domestic policy issues. Once the questions remain, we will be able to define our approach so that there is no confusion. The fact that a particular politician has one or another view that he expresses is one thing. But at the same time, the state has a platform of foreign policy, represented by representatives of the state, either by a collective decision of the government or by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who implements the foreign policy of the government. Politicians have different views and concepts, and it is only natural for such a serious, weighty and sensitive issue, as is the history of Estonia and not the question of Estonia's continuity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U12	Question 2. The performer is Kaja Kallas, corresponding to Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U13	Thank you, good manager. Minister of Social Affairs! On 7 February, the President did not declare a law amending the law on funded pensions, referring to a number of very serious violations of the Constitution. Since this is the law that the government committed its trust, I ask you as a member of the government: do you intend to remove the constitutional cripples set out in the President's decision, that is to say, to amend this draft in such a way that you will fix it and that constitution will not be violated? Do you intend to discuss this bill in essence in the Riigikogu so that these problems can be eliminated and your own government is not behind the anti-constitutional law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U14	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! It is true that the President of the Republic has shaped his position on the amendment of the funded pension law that made his decision. He certainly has every right to do so. As of the moment, the government coalition has already discussed on some occasions the concerns raised by the President, which he considers to be constitutional contradictions. We have not yet made final decisions; we will continue these discussions in the near future. And it is quite likely that the Supreme Court will have to give final decisions and final assessment if the majority of the Riigikogu nevertheless supports progress by law. There is nothing extraordinary about the rule of law in itself, nothing unusual about it. There are different legal positions, evaluations. The analyses, which have called into question one, two or three points, have estimated that the barricade is not very large. However, for legal clarity in some respects, it may not be bad at all if the Supreme Court, as an authority to all parties, makes a final assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U15	Thank you. Kaja Kallas, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U16	Thank you. We know that during this procedure you personally have also been critical of this law. I am asking you, as Minister for Social Affairs, whether you do not consider it to be an unconstitutional situation where a significant number of people can ex post withdraw the social tax intended to pay pensions, and a significant number cannot do so. And if this money is taken out, the sustainability of the Estonian pension system will also be questioned. Do you personally consider it an unconstitutional situation where social tax can be used afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U17	Thank you. Thank you for your question. It is true that the Ministry of Social Affairs, for its part, has made a number of proposals during the drafting of the draft law, both in the coalition working group and in the so-called official correspondence with the Ministry of Finance. This particular question was one of the issues that we raised: indeed, would it be more appropriate to treat the "social tax" part of the rest of the money received from funded pension funds on wages separately? If you ask me if it is unconstitutional or not, the honest answer is that I am not a lawyer and I am not going to make such assessments. However, our desire, and, more broadly, the aim of the whole Parliament and government, is to ensure that the pension system as a whole is sustainable, so that as much of the money collected for pensions as possible is used precisely in retirement. Whether a pension investment account, a second pillar of a pension, a third pillar or some other solution is an option, perhaps not the most important one. The most important thing is that older people, young people today and workers, in their future old age, will have decent income, sufficient support from the state and thanks to the resources they have collected. We know that the pension replacement rate in Estonia is regrettably low, which concerns today's elderly and, in fact, future pensioners. We know that if we did not change anything in the law, even in the second pillar, the prospects would be that Estonia's average pension would still be 40% of the average salary in the future, which I think is unfortunately few. In any case, there must be a goal to raise it. This is possible by increasing the first pillar, through the creation of additional collection mechanisms, for example by encouraging the payment of an employer's pension or the use of third pillar money, all of which are subject to debate. On the amendments to the second pillar, we have indeed tabled, I would say, in the role of a constructive critic, various proposals, various observations, many of which have been taken into account. In many respects, we have reached an agreement on tax policy and, for example, on hedging various financial risks in the form of pension funds. But, of course, as is customary in the coalition, each party has a somewhat different position, each minister has a somewhat different position when it becomes a coalition as a whole. This is also the case with the reform of the second pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You, because of your duties, should be the greatest opponent of this particular draft. But if we are monitoring the media space and the discussions in this Chamber, it has not been pointed out that you have clearly resisted this dismantling. What am I referring to? I am referring to the fact that when we in this Chamber are listening to the discussions on this subject, we are listening to the expert opinion that this draft and the way in which the second pillar is demolished clearly lead to a reduction in the average incomes of people in retirement, the Minister for Social Affairs should not agree with this in life. He should resist it with his entire department to prevent such harm. I want to ask you this. Your good coalition associates in this Chamber have said that this promise was given a very clear mandate by the people. But it was the election promise of the Fatherland and, as far as I know, the number of Fatherland ambassadors also decreased in this hall. This does not give any certainty to say that it is the mandate of the people to fulfil this promise. Please tell me if you have ever thought about saying that if the step that the coalition has planned and which the President has opposed is that if this reform is carried out, you, as Minister of Social Affairs, will resign because it is not right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U20	Thank you for your question. Going somewhat back to the post-election period of the Riigikogu in chronology, it must be said that the basic principles of the second pillar reform were agreed in the coalition agreement. The reform of this pillar was known to all the incoming ministers, including me. It would be somewhat strange of me today to make such powerful statements in a situation where the core of the second pillar reform was agreed and known in the coalition agreement. It's kind of like doing a show. As far as the content of this reform is concerned, there are a lot of important principles that I, as Minister and Centre Party, have supported. The second pillar remains, anyone who wishes can continue to be a part of it. I have also said myself that I intend to continue collecting there, because this is one of the very good ways to prepare for retirement. It is also possible for new people to join, and it is precisely through tax policy that we have encouraged pension money to be taken out in retirement. People of working age have to take 20% of their income tax liability into account, while in retirement, this income tax is 10%. We have also agreed on a very important principle that, when people decide no longer to collect into the second pillar, the social tax money that is being released can be channelled into an exceptional pension increase, or through the first pillar, to improve the situation of current pensioners. I must admit that this last objective is very important to me, because the situation of today's elderly is even more difficult than it will be for the future. I'll explain why. The Estonian state is inevitably less prosperous now than it will be visible in the future. I think that increasing the country's prosperity is a common goal for all of us. And today's young and working-age people have the opportunity to raise them for retirement by means of the second pillar or the third pillar. This opportunity has not been enjoyed by very many of today's elderly people due to different regimes, several monetary reforms, very rapid changes in the economic situation which have not been the result of them and which have all been positive for the country as a whole, positive for our future view. At the same time, the other side must also be recognised: the poverty of the elderly is the highest in Estonia, according to recent Eurostat data. This means that if we carry out the reform of the second pillar and, as a result, we can raise today's pensions for the elderly, which is one of the concrete agreements, we will actually reduce the proportion of the elderly at risk of poverty. As has been said, what happens to today's young people, today's working age, depends very much on their own choices, their opportunities. And the options they have are either to collect, whether to leave the second pillar, whether to collect further into the third pillar or using other mechanisms. So I certainly do not see this reform as so-called gold, but I do not see it in the negative key as you have pointed out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U21	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U22	Question No 3, asks Indrek Saar and answers Social Minister Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U23	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. All government departments have promised to reduce the maintenance load of their own carers in order to allow them to take care of free rest and return to work. In the coalition agreement, for some reason, you do not have that in clear terms, but yet you have promised there a nationwide principle of carer support. That's what I'm talking Before the Riigikogu elections, the Centre Party promised to raise the care allowance to EUR 100 per month. EKRE promised to raise the carer allowance to the minimum wage. Please, could you tell us when such legislative changes will arrive in the Riigikogu? Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior, who recently took office, promised in the Prime Minister's duties on 15 May in Question Time, Helmen Küti's question that, in cooperation with local authorities, the caretaker's allowance would rise from 1 January to the minimum wage. Please explain to us how you, Minister curating in this area, intend to fulfil this commitment and promise made to the Minister's Government in the Prime Minister's duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U24	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, I cannot comment on this particular quote at the moment, I admit honestly. As far as the topic of informal care is concerned, the reform of long-term care is concerned, it is true that today's government, the previous government and, to a certain extent, the former government have been working on it. As is well known, this is a very wide-ranging issue, a very large part of Estonian society. We are talking directly about more than 100,000 people, and indirectly more than that, I mean close and different support networks. We have really moved on with this. On 30 January, the meeting of the Cabinet was on the subject where we presented the results of the interim working groups, we proposed different alternative models for long-term care arrangements, life-cycle financing for people with special needs. The Government Office's decision was to move forward with the partnership model between the state and local government and, in particular, to focus on developing standards for the necessary services, harmonisation as well as cooperation between the state and local government and capacity building for local authorities. It was also specifically fixed in the decisions of the Cabinet. When you ask about the draft legislation, the agreement was that, under the leadership of the Ministry and in cooperation with other sectoral ministries, we will initially draw up the intention to be drawn up, as good legislation provides. It's coming this year. And probably next year there will be a specific bill in Parliament. This does not mean that nothing will happen in 2020. In fact, we are going ahead with, for example, the model of coordination of care, we are going forward, in cooperation with the Minister for Public Administration, with a good sense of motivation for local authorities, so that more own resources and attention are focused specifically on solving long-term care issues and increasing funding. We will, of course, move forward with better integration of both health and social protection. One example is nursing care in nursing homes financed by the health insurance fund. We are also going further, more broadly, with the introduction of a central model of home services. We know that there are a lot of people in line for the nursing home, also in the order of special care, but in fact, much more people want and need help in their home. At present, a little less than 7,000 people receive help in the form of home services; the need is in the order of 20000, theoretically, may be even greater than those in various institutional institutions. So there's a lot of processes going on. We and local authorities are dealing with this issue. And we'll get to lawmaking, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U25	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U26	Thank you, Minister. But you didn't answer my question. You talked about what you are improving, developing and analyzing. There was no specific answer to my question. A colleague in the duties of your Prime Minister has promised very specific money numbers, but I understand that you are not taking a step in the government to make sure that something actually happens in this regard. You might want to comment on that. But my more general comment and question is that the Centre Party's programme for ensuring inherent care and decent old age, or what exactly is the wording you had, is just as ambitious as the election programme for Isamaa and EKRE. Although an in-depth analysis has been carried out in recent years, the task force has made very specific policy recommendations, from which a choice should now be made and things should be implemented, it is as if you allow us to have another analysis in substance. By the end of the year, it is planned to send a plan to the coordination circle. And that's all you're really doing in this area. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U27	Thank you very much. The brief answer to your question is: no, you did not get it right. As I pointed out earlier, a lot of activities are underway. You are well aware that the local authorities are primarily responsible for social welfare in the Republic of Estonia, and in cooperation with them, the state and municipalities are moving more towards home services, as has been said. There is an initial smaller pilot project for maintenance coordination and this year it will expand significantly. The desire is precisely to ensure the availability of the services necessary for a person, regardless of who offers them, is the health care sector or the social welfare sector, it is a representative of a municipal employee or a public institution, such as the Social Insurance Board. How many processes are we going to go on? For our part, we will, of course, also make requests for additional money in the negotiations on the national budget strategy, which will now begin in spring. We've mapped them out. The need for money in this area is very high. We are not actually talking only about the elderly, we are talking about special care, we are talking about children, we are talking about supporting people with disabilities, we are talking about a lot of support services, support services, tools. The circle of topics is very wide. I certainly do not underestimate the work done in the working groups, and I do not underestimate the need for analysis in making such decisions. Of course, I would also like all the processes in the Republic of Estonia to move significantly faster, so that we are not forced to develop these draft laws in 2020, but would have been done 10, 15, 20 years ago. But this is today's reality. The Government of the Republic has done its work well below a year, in the order of ten months. In four years' time, or let us say, in three years' time, there will certainly be very important changes in this area, very important reforms. I very much hope that they will be won, above all, not by the state and local authorities, but by the people who need help and their loved ones. I understand your criticism and impatience. I also feel that processes and life in the country could go faster, especially in areas where there are really many people in need. But somehow underestimate the models in progress, the pilot projects, the use of euro money, as well as the cooperation with the local authorities in this area, and now I do not consider it right to draw up the draft legislation's intention. When we talk about this area, making changes that need hundreds of millions of euros over the years must be carefully thought out, it must be justified. The representatives of both NGOs and local authorities must be involved, and all of this will inevitably take time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U28	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As you rightly said, it is important to make decisions on the basis of science, research, analysis. I looked back in history a little bit. Since 2015, a lot of analyses have been carried out in this area, studies have been carried out, task forces have been working, representatives of very, very many NGOs who have actually been active in this area, have wasted working hours or, in a good way, have used working hours to make a better contribution. Apparently, a lot of money has been spent on such work. The World Bank has done an analysis. What else is there to study in this area? Would it not be wise to take action already? Now we do not have a government with a new Prime Minister who has never received any information from this area before. We have the Centre Party as a coalition partner in the government, who is very familiar with this area. If you took all these studies out of the desk drawer, it would probably be possible to do something on their basis. Secondly, yesterday, in the Committee on Social Affairs, you responded very nicely to the question of care insurance. You have supported the idea that Dr. Kai Saks has already proposed in 2017, but you said that there is no support for it in today's coalition. Let me get this straight. Is there any additional funding for care insurance, you're not analysing at all, and you won't be coming in three years? Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U30	Thanks for the questions. I think you rightly said that people have not wasted time, but have still used time in a good way, contributing to the preparation of various analyses in different working groups. Of course I've been familiar with the inputs I've received, we've taken all this into account. Consequently, this year, when developing the principle of the maintenance convention, the Ministry will present a proposal for the harmonisation of the principles of support for government-owned carers, carers' allowance, which the previous person asked about. All these issues we are working on with strength. As far as care insurance is concerned, we have discussed it, analysed it, looked at the models of different countries, it is Germany or the Nordic countries. And we have also really appreciated the potential services that could be offered in this part, which is not. However, since the position of the government coalition is that, at the moment, new taxes, additional burdens are not recommended, it is not reasonable for us to put it in this form in the development plan. Why do we do thought work or analysis in this light if we know that there will be no decision? The clear aim and direction of the coalition or, let's say, the instruction to the ministry was to move forward with the model of partnership between the state and local authorities. This means that both should allocate additional funds to this area, both state and local authorities, in accordance with the principles developed. However, the state does not foresee such a separate tax at present. Regarding the criticism that the process has been slow, I could of course say that if something has been done since 2015, but where were the previous four years? However, I think that the honest answer is that this is such a broad-based issue that every round of 'inclusion', the analysis round will have a lot of new proposals, additions, feedback and, inevitably, in the context of the limited resources of the state budget, it will not be possible to move forward with very large steps. But what has been done in previous years, which have taken the form of these decisions this year, and which will be done in the coming years, is, in my opinion, positive. At least this issue is being addressed and progress is being made. And this general awareness of the problems in the country, both in the circle of politicians and in society and the media in general, has actually taken place. It has been understood that this is an area that does not solve itself and that money, time and other resources must be contributed to. The current arrangements can also be made more effective. This has all been very positive and all previous ministers, previous governments, as well as members of the Riigikogu, both present and former, have contributed to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U31	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U32	We have come to question 4 by Liina Kersna, which is answered by Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I believe that a large part of the Estonian public has also observed with concern and sympathy how the Latvian citizen of our neighbouring country has been held in Denmark for over a year on charges of kidnapping his own child by the Republic of South Africa. Today we know that the Danish court has decided to extradite a Latvian citizen to the Republic of South Africa. I also know that you have spoken to both a Latvian and a Danish colleague on this issue. And my question is: how can an Estonian state help our neighbouring country and its citizen to be judged in their own country?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U34	Thank you. As far as this particular case is concerned, as soon as it came to my attention when it reached the public media space, I contacted a Latvian colleague, expressed my solidarity and sympathy on behalf of our country, and asked whether we could provide any assistance, given that this is actually a matter between the two countries. He thanked for his support and said that he was grateful for all that we considered possible. I spoke with my Danish colleague on Monday at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union in the hallway of the building and told him that the Republic of Estonia would support the position of the Republic of Latvia in this matter, and I asked the Danish State to do everything possible, of course, in accordance with the legal procedures of their country, in order to avoid this extradition. He took note of my message. The Ambassador of the Republic of Latvia approached me yesterday on behalf of the Republic of Latvia and expressed his gratitude for Estonia being the country that has expressed solidarity. Now what can be done. I asked to make a list of countries where Estonian citizens are imprisoned in connection with this case. I am thinking of countries in the third world with which we do not have an agreement on the exchange of prisoners. I asked for new notes to be sent to all countries with which we do not have an agreement on the exchange of prisoners, and, secondly, I asked to prepare a package of proposals for those countries where our citizen is not in prison, but with whom we do not have an agreement on the exchange of prisoners. This country is also South Africa. If we look at concrete developments, it is clear that there will certainly be hypothetical cases where our citizen gets between these gears. Obviously, we need to draw conclusions from this case and learn how to defend our people's interests better. If this case should result in a regrettable conclusion that the officials of the Republic of South Africa will still arrive in Denmark and that woman will be or will be taken to South Africa, then surely, if the Republic of Latvia considers it necessary and if a Latvian colleague turns to me, I will be ready to contact directly the Foreign Minister of the Republic of South Africa, with whom I had the opportunity to meet in January, and invite him to work together to resolve this case diplomatically. I am sure it is also appropriate that Riina Kionka, an Estonian citizen, provides assistance to the Latvian state and specifically to this person, is the ambassador of the European Union in [LAV].
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U35	Specific question, Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U36	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I ask once again: if an Estonian citizen were in a similar situation, would we be able to do anything in the real sense that the trial would take place in the country of the citizen's home country, not in the country where the alleged crime was committed? Does the country even have the opportunity to help its citizen in such a situation, and what can we learn from this sad incident?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U37	Thank you. The question is, what is the position of the Government of the Republic of Estonia? The position of the Government of the Republic of Estonia is that all cases are certainly of a somewhat different nature. But in this case, I reiterate my solidarity with the Republic of Latvia. I certainly understand their request and request, and they have also put forward their arguments, which have a legal basis. Now, indeed, according to the logic of transnational legal aid, there is a so-called general framework agreement, as Mrs Signe Riisalo pointed out. It is that all countries issue a person and there is no question: if there were an Estonian citizen, he would be extradited. If there were such a situation that something like this would happen in the Republic of Estonia, then we would necessarily release the perpetrator to South Africa. That would be the rule. But no, I do not agree with this approach in essence. There are circumstances that must be borne in mind: whether the rule of law is in force in the country in which a person is extradited, the protection of human rights is guaranteed. Things need to be assessed in the collection. If I ask what the state can do, I will say that the state can put forward its arguments using the prescribed forms of law enforcement, and so in court proceedings. In Denmark and Estonia, the extradition procedure is subject to judicial review. In fact, it is still important in the rule of law to consider the principles of the protection of human rights as central, and that is also true in this respect. At the same time, of course, international commitments must also be respected. Of course, it has also been asked here whether the Latvian authorities, as events developed, followed all the necessary procedures. I do not take a position on this. But surely this is also an important observation for us that when things start to go, we have to act as early as possible. It is certainly appropriate for the country to react as early as possible. Today, this case has unfortunately evolved in a sad way, in fact, a person has spent over a year in prison. If he is issued, he may be threatened with a maximum term of imprisonment of 15 years in South Africa, at least according to public statements. Well, the facts are that we only have to express our support for this person and the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U38	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U39	Thank you. This discussion has tended to the area of criminal law, but in fact, according to the Convention adopted at the Conference on Private International Law in The Hague, child abduction falls within the area of civil law relations. And there are more conventions dealing with matters related to custody or children's rights in general, and the Estonian state has also made commitments in this regard. The best situation is that we have been able to prevent such incidents. This situation shows this extra well. My question is: what can the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do with the help of its officials to ensure that Estonian citizens do not get into a similar situation? Does this mean consulting or something else so that custody issues can be resolved in the country of residence? What role does the State Department play in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U40	Thank you. I think this is a very sensitive subject. As we can see, such problems can lead to great suffering. What a tragedy this could be for the whole family, right? General consular assistance The Ministry of Foreign Affairs offers. I take your case seriously and ask the consular and legal lawyers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the employees of the Ministry of Social Affairs, to review the existing information and to compile a "attention management catalogue" on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' website. Of course, people know that, unfortunately, families break up, conflicts can arise, etc. But people need to know what kind of legal position they might end up in as a result. They may suffer legal consequences that they would not want under any circumstances. I think this is very correct and appropriate. If this information is not currently available in a clear form in the authorities, I ask that it be done without delay so that people know what the result is in a situation where the Republic of Estonia may not be able to control the progress of future events in international relations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U42	Question No 5, asked by Helmen Kütt and answered by Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Justice! Ten months ago, when the government took office and you became Minister of Justice, you had the necessary changes to the organisation of the administration of bailiffs and insolvency practitioners on the agenda as one point or as one topic. You presented your thoughts on this. In our group, representatives of bailiffs and the House of Bankruptcy Administrators also came forward to express their thoughts on the planned changes. There was one case involving the seizure of debtors' assets, with less than the minimum subsistence. It must be acknowledged that the problem was resolved. True, the questions I have put in my letter have not yet been answered, but I hope that they will still arrive in my mailbox. My question is not so much about this case, because it seems that this bad situation has been rectified. Yes, indeed, the debtor must repay the debt, but the debtor also has children and family, and the debtor must have a living minimum. What are your plans in this area concerning the work of bailiffs and how far have they come? In spring, these plans were presented in our group, both by your mouth and by bailiffs, how far has it come?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U44	Thank you for your question. Indeed, there was a regrettable case that took place when the unemployment fund implemented its own information system, under which bailiffs' claims were respected. I believe that next month, when the grant or the payment of grants takes place again, there will be no more problems. This was, in some respects, a technical problem, perhaps in the process of working in, not all the circumstances could have been foreseen by the unemployment fund and the bailiffs' Chamber. Well, unfortunately, we do. If we want to give some work to machines, the machine can do it in the amount it has been trained to do, it is not yet able to think. You referred to the bailiff reform I've been talking about. Indeed, the preparation of the reform started already during the previous government, and we have moved on with it. It's not a dead end. Several meetings have taken place at political level, albeit at official level, with bailiffs. We have also come to explain our different positions to Members. In some ways, this debate may have been carried over too intensively to the media, but generally, prospective tasks or a prospective approach, as I understand it, have become uniform. In order to maintain the service of bailiffs, which is a function transferred to them by the State years ago, i.e. the execution of judgments, its viability, the whole system must be looked at and reformed. The problem is very simple: as the number of claims on bailiffs has decreased significantly, the number of bailiffs has clearly fallen too much to meet these requirements and the income that these claims give bailiffs is no longer sufficient to enable bailiffs to maintain their offices, to make the necessary investments, to develop information technology, etc., as well as to motivate their staff. You just have to go this way to get the bailiffs down. Secondly, it is very important to establish a common database, which has been decided in the same way. Work on this will start soon. Every bailiff sees and sees how many claims he has against him above: what are the state's claims, what are private claims? They're in a single database. This is one important aspect, for example, that the same problem that we have been talking about here will be evident. So far, there is no complete picture of claims against one person.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U45	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U46	Thank you very much for your very thorough answer. It's good to know you're still working on it. I am also quite convinced that the reason was precisely because there was no complete review. Different bailiffs may have a number of claims against the same person, and that was probably one reason. And another really computer system. At other times, the technique fails: what a person did before by hand now does on the computer, it can happen that the result is not what was hoped for. But my second question concerns the regulation on maintenance aid. When I asked you in October last year on the subject of the inclusion of maintenance allowance in the minimum wage, you did indeed answer me in writing. And it was good to read from the written reply that in spring 2019 a simple call was announced and won with a joint offer. A contract was already signed in July to carry out a study to make decisions on how to proceed on the basis of the results. The previous Minister of Justice, sitting next to you today, Urmas Reinsalu, dealt with the subject of maintenance aid very thoroughly and proposed a calculator, which received critical feedback. In fact, more claims could have been made than the calculator offered. It was known that by the end of January this study would be completed. True, you were not due to go to the government until October 2020. The minimum wage has risen since the new year, for example, problems in calculating income remain. If people want to break up without demanding a living through a court of law, it is not appropriate to formalise their livelihood, because 50% of the minimum wage will be deducted from the calculation if the judgment is not different. Did this study now be completed by the end of January? If so, do you have any information, is there any way to get to know it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U47	Thank you for your question. Indeed, I know that this study was commissioned. Have we received the so-called final report, I cannot say today. At least during the briefings, I have not been briefed by officials on this particular study so far. But that does not mean that we have not discussed this issue further. Indeed, it is a subject that is very multilayered and multifaceted. This needs to be seen, on the one hand, from the point of view of the children of specific divided families and, on the other, from the point of view of new families with new children. All children must be treated equally, not in a way that those children who have left one parent are in a better position and the new children are in a worse position. This has certainly caused problems in a number of ways, and there has been much debate, controversy and debate about this issue. The other party, however, is that the courts actually have the right to give judgment. It's not like the exact half is being taken away, and that's it. The courts can take account of the economic realities of the parties, in particular from the point of view of ensuring equal treatment for all children. No party, either from a previous marriage or from a previous marriage or from a new one, must be put in a worse position. Everyone must be treated equally. And right now, as far as I'm concerned, judges and courts are dealing with it and taking the matter seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U48	Thank you. Unfortunately, the third question cannot be asked by a member of the Riigikogu. As there are no questions on this subject from others, I will stop addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U49	Let us move on to the next question posed by Mr Everaus, which is answered by Minister for Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U50	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Very honourable Minister! My question is based on the OECD Health Report and the data on Estonia. In fact, Estonia spends at least twice as much on health care per capita as the European Union average. And obviously this is not enough, as the OECD report says. Not satisfied with the funding of our health care, as unmet health needs are the largest in Estonia in the European Union, 11.8% of the population. In the European Union, the corresponding figure is 1.7%. And avoidable mortality, which could be "torped" with treatment, we also have twice as high as in the European Union. So what are the health care funding schemes to make available treatment to people in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U51	Honourable questioner! Thank you very much for drawing attention to this very important issue. It is indeed a longstanding concern and a trend that the Estonian state spends on health care when talking about purely state budget resources, less than 5% of GDP. If we are often talking about the figure of 6.5 to 6.6%, it is actually with the people's own participation. The state itself actually puts much less. And if we really wanted to reach an average level or higher in the European Union, that would require hundreds of millions of euros each year in this area. Of course, finding such an additional amount is not an easy task for any government. But that doesn't mean we don't have to move in that direction. The previous government made certain decisions concerning the payment of health insurance for elderly, non-working old-age pensioners. This has actually given the sickness fund extra money, let's say, in the four-year plan, part of the period then passed, partly the next year, a total of about 200 million. But it's been four years. In fact, of course, the need for money is greater, but it has helped somewhat to alleviate this deficit, but not to cover it. The need for uncovered human treatment, as you rightly said, is five times greater in size than in many other countries, and, in fact, people's own contribution is unfortunately high. In addition, it rather shows a trend towards growth as well. We in the ministry have analysed different options. One specific point, for example, is that a debate should be raised on the extension of the so-called income base for health insurance. Is it right that only employment contracts pay part of health insurance, social tax? Perhaps other forms of income should also be taken into account? In any case, we are open and prepared for this debate because the employment relationship has changed. The share of entrepreneurs in Estonia is constantly increasing. We must bear in mind that the share of social security contributions paid solely on the basis of a classic employment contract does not guarantee the sustainability of the Estonian health care system in the longer term. This does not provide the necessary means to shorten treatment queues; rather, there is a risk that they may be prolonged. We have actually done very in-depth discussions and long-term forecasts on the board and on the board of the Health Insurance Fund. These are purely trends forecasts that take into account the increase in the share of older people, the change in the share of the working-age population, as well as real increases in wages and health care costs. What's going to be a long-term plan? It is clear that additional money is needed in any case in the system. Expansion of the revenue base is a specific idea. Of course, it is always possible to finance certain services from the state budget, as has been done in the past. In the meantime, some of the services from the state budget have been transferred to the budget of the Health Insurance Fund with money, but there is also an option to carry out additional screening and other preventive activities on a larger scale from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U52	Light Everaus, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U53	Many thanks for the previous answer! A little bit you've already touched the order of access to treatment and reception. There are rules for the order of specialized medical care; however, the six-week requirement for the order of specialized medical care is only met in 55% of cases. It is even more difficult to get into hospital: eight months is the minimum that must be expected, mostly much more expected. For example, hip replacement should be expected for an average of 391 days, with an OECD average of 161 days. You were very optimistic that the digital registration office would help, but that is not possible in the case of hospital care, as well as in the case of many other needs. What's the solution? I have this feeling that the wallet is still the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U54	Thank you for your follow-up. I fully agree that, by investing significantly below the European Union average in this area, there is a great deal to be desired if there is hope of overcoming the European Union average. After all, the rest of the countries of the European Union are not behind us in terms of development. Rather, we are among the relatively averages: there are far more advanced countries in the European Union than we are, and there are also those who are lagging behind Estonia in terms of the health care system. More can be done in financial terms with less, perhaps in very limited times and in limited situations, but in health care as a whole, there is no real availability in the country or regions. There is a need for extra money. As far as digital registration is concerned, it has different benefits. One plus is really the drop in the blanks we've seen. There is also better information exchange and greater user comfort: a person can really see in a comprehensive way the possibilities of registering with one doctor or another. This gives the health insurance fund the opportunity to make ex post assessments, as well as future forecasts, of how much treatment capacity one or the other specialty needs in one county or another. However, this may also help to shorten the order of treatment. The percentage you have pointed out is not so low, as far as I know, but only in the order of 60% really this'six-week waiting period' principle is met. It is also true that statistics also distort whether all people are in line or not. If we limit the number of registration options, we get a statistically better figure, if we allow people to line up, we get a statistically lower figure. But the situation is actually the same. Therefore, in the case of statistics, it is always necessary to look at the situation. However, I do not think that we are arguing about the nature of the problem; we do not disagree about it. And all of these measures are this digital registry office, it is a stronger support for the first level, including health promotion, a greater contribution to mobility, nutrition, the Green Paper, including the Green Paper on mental health, are important supporting steps. But hope that we will achieve a major development leap without increasing resources in the coming years is likely to be overly optimistic. We may have the potential to remain at today's level, to prevent 'negative' scenarios, but a major reduction in treatment waiting lists or a regional increase in access to health care, a significant increase in the healthy lives of people and all other major goals can only be achieved if we really increase the state's contribution, reduce people's contribution and thus clearly reduce the inequalities in medical care. We now know that people with higher incomes have better access to health care thanks to the availability of financial resources. In fact, however, with this inequality, we automatically bring more social problems, including problems in the labour market. All these questions are interrelated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U55	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U56	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The representatives of the Estonian Nurses Association in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu spoke with concern about the shortage of nurses and, in fact, about the need to have more resources for training both doctors and nurses. I know that almost three years ago there was an agreement between the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs, which led to further training for nurses. That time is now coming to an end. We made a letter so that the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs could agree on how to proceed and whether additional resources would be found there. This is partly linked to the question of the previous speaker. Tell me whether the shortage of doctors and nurses working in the medical sector is already being reflected in the fact that we have a very sharp topic for family doctors. Family doctors sometimes treat by means of a TV bridge, or only on certain days, the doctor attends. Is the shortage of staff in the medical sector a problem that prolongs the order of access to a specialist or to a procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U57	Thank you for your question. It is true that healthcare is a very complex area. And the reason a person doesn't get to a doctor in a particular specialty depends on the region and there are other different reasons. Where the amount of treatment needed to get to the doctor has not been financed by the Health Insurance Fund, where there is no specialist on the spot, where there is not enough rapid exchange of information between the different actors in the health care system. But there is no doubt that labour shortages have a role to play. When we look at the workload of doctors, we see that it is well above full load. Most doctors, in fact, also staff at large, i.e. nurses, social welfare workers, care workers, work as a rule in several places, with multiple loads. Unfortunately, it is known that enough is also being done in the emergency department in order to make regular exchanges with different health care providers, without resting in the meantime. And at the same time, there are often contributions from two different sectors, both in health care and in social protection. On the one hand, in the country's view, it is necessary that the existing people contribute to the maximum, as you rightly referred to, for example, the number of nurses in Estonia is well below the recommendation of the OECD and the European Union. For doctors as a whole, the number is even closer to the target level, but still the question arises when we look at a long-term plan. The question is, at what age are our doctors and what exactly is regional coverage? Unfortunately, I know very negative examples where the managers of a particular hospital say that some departments, some specialties have come to close because if the doctor is retiring, no one will just come in place. Outside Tallinn, Tartu and other major centres, this has often been a sad reality and it must definitely be worked against. I know that the Association of Doctors has put on the table in the past and this time also puts the question of regional wage coefficients in order precisely to support doctors outside larger centres. I certainly support this from the principle. The question is again where this money should come from: whether it comes from the Health Insurance Fund, or whether it comes from a redistribution of existing resources, or whether it comes from a regionally separate complementary support measure, of course, that would be their preference. At all, when we are talking, for example, about the health care system, you referred to family doctors, we are taking very concrete steps to support doctors in rural areas. The new list of health services will now be in place in April 2020. Although this is still unconfirmed, the Health Insurance Board will take place the day after tomorrow, we have a concrete proposal to significantly increase the so-called distance fee for all family doctors operating outside Tallinn and Tartu within the rest of their funding. This would make it more supportive to operate in smaller centres and beyond hospitals. And as I have referred to before, everything in Estonia needs regional support except Tallinn and Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U58	Atah! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U59	Next question, Number 7. Performs by Jaak Juske and meets the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U60	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Austet Minister! This week, an incredible disorder was revealed in the social system of the city of Tallinn. Namely, the city of Tallinn has missed half of the state's money for the care of orphans, as much as 1 million euros. Tallinn's city leaders have also tried to put responsibility on the Ministry of Social Affairs. The fact is that both the City of Tallinn and the Ministry of Social Affairs are headed by representatives of the Centre Party. And here's a question for you: Mr Minister, what have you done to put an end to this mess? And how has it ever been possible for the city to have so much money left unused to support orphans?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U61	Thank you very much for your question. In fact, replacement care is a service organised by the local government. Therefore, the role of local government is particularly important in order to provide children with the necessary support, necessary services, regardless of whether we are talking about care families, family homes or replacement homes. One of the causes of today's situation is undoubtedly that the system, as such, has been in place for two years. The changes took place in the replacement after-care system at the beginning of 2018, when the organisation went with funding to local authorities. The objective and objective was actually right: namely to increase the share of family-based replacement care in order to encourage children without parental care to grow primarily in a family environment, in a care family. More broadly, the government's direction was also to increase the decision-making power, tasks and responsibilities of the local government, together with the necessary financial resources. It is true that already at the end of 2018, there was a certain surplus of money. We are not only talking about larger sums in Tallinn; we are actually talking more broadly: all over Estonia these funds were not used for their own purposes. It was then because of the change in the number of children during the calendar year or because of the incorrect forecasting of services and other subsidies, but in any case there was also a balance then. Now we see from 2019 data, which has appeared this year, that this residue has grown even further. If we look at this issue the way the Ministry must look at it across Estonia, we will see that this is not a problem for one, two or three municipalities. It's a wider problem. As a result, we want to bring together representatives of the larger municipalities, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, the Social Insurance Board and the Ministry of Finance to discuss how this service can be offered to people better, more effectively, so that there is no surplus of money in a situation where the target group of the service obviously needs support. It is right that this money should reach their children and families in maximum terms. As has been said, the search for guilty people is always easier for solutions, but I think that the aim should still be to find the best possible model and exchange information precisely about how this practice has clearly worked in some local governments and how some municipalities have missed a relatively large amount of money. As I have already pointed out: the capital of the Republic of Estonia is not the only municipality in Estonia with farthest residue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U62	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U63	Dear Minister, I agree that this problem is certainly wider, but now that we are talking about the city of Tallinn, indeed, a million euros will not be used to help children with very specific purposes. It's a very systemic error somewhere. Where do you think this is a mistake? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U64	As I said, it is likely that, above all, there have been imprecise forecasts. Perhaps the number of children has been misjudged, or the number of children has changed over the year, or the attempt has been made to be more conservative, just in case, so as not to create the opposite situation where budget money will run out earlier than expected. I know that in many municipalities, including Tallinn, it is actually also a matter of the fact that the city has allocated its own resources to support their families and to provide their services. Perhaps everything has also depended on whether the city's resources were used before, and then the state's resources, or vice versa. For a person who needs service or support, of course, there is no difference here, but statistically it can be a very big difference. There may be a surplus of money on one budget line, but in fact, the sum of the sum has been spent on a significant amount of support for their families. As far as I know from the information exchanged with the representatives of Tallinn, this has been one of the reasons why in Tallinn's context this residue seems very large. If there had been methodologically a slightly different order, if public funds had been spent earlier and less of the city's resources, then we would see a significantly smaller surplus here. There is no doubt that service support and various support mechanisms as a whole must be considered. But I also agree that the aim should be to ensure that both the city and the state receive the maximum rate of use.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U65	Thank you. There are no further questions on this subject. But Urve Tiidus still has it. Are you asking in the context of the second question? Good. Let us stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U66	The next question is No 8, asks Urve Tiidus and answers Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U67	Thank you. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, who you are in Question Time for the Prime Minister's duties today! The year 2026 is no longer behind the mountains, and just then, in about six years' time, the train journey from Tallinn to the centre of Riga must last an hour and 42 minutes and Rail Baltic must be ready. I'm sure a lot of people have already bought tickets for this trip. Information on the progress of the infrastructure project across the three Baltic States can be found in the media almost every week. Sometimes it's more, sometimes less optimistic, and that's pretty soft. In the case of projects of this size, it is sometimes difficult for an outsider to understand what the state of affairs is, whether or not to assess how well the acquisition of properties for the construction of a line in Estonia has progressed, whether the current pace of acquiring them ensures that they are kept on track. The audit of the National Audit Office submitted at the end of last year showed that there have been delays in the Rail Baltic railway project, including in Estonia, and the cost forecasts have increased, so the National Audit Office considers that the completion of the object is probably not realistic. The project is going to exceed the deadline for financing agreements for almost two years. As we all know here, the success of such a grand project requires money, time and, above all, good, effective cooperation between the participating countries and the political parties with government responsibility. Which of these three factors is the time, the money, the cooperation that inspires optimism the most, and which increases scepticism and concern, does the long-standing idea really reach the successful finals? And how unanimous is the government about Rail Baltic? That's a question for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U68	Thank you. I'm an eternal optimist. It can always get worse. The question, however, is about the current state of Rail Baltic. Government departments have had different views on Rail Baltic. The agreement we have made and fulfilled as a team is to ensure the implementation of a fixed project. The government's gonna bet on it. However, one important issue is the agreed own contribution rate of 19%, as we have foreseen. If Rail Baltic's own contribution is to increase significantly, this project will have to be reviewed. As far as I know, in fact, the Prime Ministers of the Baltic States have all expressed this together. There's nothing unique here. Then we'll have to re-evaluate it. In fact, in this government, this framework has been agreed and I have not had any sense for a second that some authority is acting in the opposite direction. So this political will is entirely there. On a political level, all three Baltic States have this will. I think this was confirmed by the recent meeting of the Prime Ministers of the Baltic States. As regards cooperation, or in practice the work of this so-called "agent organisation" or the body implementing the project, there are, we must recognise, the problems in a series of ways. The National Audit Office made a report on this; it is a matter of management and other matters. But I think the meeting of the Baltic Prime Ministers gave impetus to the great political will of the Baltic States to be demanding of this organisation, and I hope that the problems that have emerged will be learnt. With regard to money, the European Union's resources, there is nothing to say; tomorrow, the Council will be debating the use of the European Union's money. Yesterday, the government confirmed its central priorities for funding. Estonia is seeking equal treatment for our farmers, that is our goal. We are also asking for a lower own contribution to Cohesion Fund projects. It's now 35% in the middle, and it's true, it's already gone down in a positive direction. And the financing of Rail Baltic should also comply with the principles that we have agreed on. These are our principles, the Prime Minister expresses them, and the Baltic States have a common platform and a common position in this regard. This was also a topic of which the Prime Ministers of the Baltic States discussed with finance Commissioner Johannes Hahn at a meeting in Tallinn. If we ask if there is funding, if we can realise the plans in the agreed timeframe, then in the current situation, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U69	Urve Tiidus, more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U70	Minister, I repeat you in some ways. At the meeting of the European Union Affairs Commission this morning, the Prime Minister asked for a parliamentary mandate for Estonia's positions, which will be defended at the extraordinary European Council meeting tomorrow. These are, of course, linked to the negotiations on the European Union's long-term budget. According to the Prime Minister, before these negotiations, the Baltic leaders will also meet each other once again to ensure that the Rail Baltic project is financed and the co-financing rate is made more favourable, acting on common principles and as a team. Three countries are said to have a shortage of EUR 2 billion. You are optimistic, but the missing part of Estonia is, fortunately, smaller than that of others, but still missing. It is now known that, on the proposal of the President of the Council, Charles Michel, it is possible to apply for more funding for Rail Baltic than the so-called 'national envelopes' provided for in the Connecting Europe Facility. And the Baltic States are also likely to be able to apply for up to 85% of EU co-financing to a large part of the total funding needs. It is, of course, easier to speak with a favourable rate of additional funding than to achieve it in practice. How have you in the Foreign Minister's office been able to contribute to this project, especially now that net contributors establish their positions more firmly in the negotiations than before Brexit? More like 1% of GDP, and no more! At present, however, 1.07% of GDP is accounted for. Can you give some examples of what you have been able to do to make Rail Baltic a success of the budget negotiations and to protect Estonia's interests to the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U71	Thank you. On Monday, the General Affairs Council held a meeting with blood, sweat, tears. All countries put their positions on the table very dramatically. There was a real battlefield, a battlefield with dull, round bureaucratic talk for nothing. When national interests are at stake, all countries are out for themselves. And that's the way it should be, there's nothing embarrassing or judgmental about it. And I, too, expressed my clear views. I had four pages of Estonia's positions, and there are also nuanced, smaller topics. The main core nuclear problem, Estonia's priorities, I have already mentioned. Of course, I also stressed the importance of Rail Baltic there. In the case of Rail Baltic, there are actually two additional arguments that we must bear in mind. Firstly, there is the environmental dimension: then there are fewer trucks. And there's nothing to do, the second argument is that it's perhaps less exposed to the dimension of military mobility. It is possible to organise strategic transport better on the railways; there is nothing to deny. On Monday, I had an appointment with the Polish Ambassador to the European Parliament, Jan Olbrycht, who is the rapporteur for the European Union's long-term financial framework, a very important, influential man. If this budget ever reaches Parliament, I hope, it will be in such a central role. He actually warned against the fact that years ago, five years ago, in the debate on the previous financial perspective, there was a feeling that there were very controversial positions in the European Parliament, and it was not easy to hold the position agreed by governments. He said that there is now a much more fragmented European Parliament, with different interests. There are many new members, and certainly this idea that the European Parliament could reject it in the form it is proposed is completely realistic. As we know, Parliament wants to see a much more ambitious budget, right, 1.3% of the European Union's GDP. It's in the way. But in fact, he also referred to the Connecting Europe Facility. There is a rumor in the European Parliament that, on the proposal of Mr Michel, Rail Baltic has actually been hidden into this facility in its entirety as a package of such gifts for the Baltic States. However, we would like to see this money clearly fixed. If it's a later application, it's definitely a more fragile position. So I will certainly talk to all my colleagues, of course, above all looking at the net contributors on these issues concerning the European long-term budget. Latvia and Lithuania do not need to convince each other. Unfortunately, with those of us who are net beneficiaries, our wishes coincide by contour. I had a conversation with the ambassadors of all the countries of the European Union in Estonia at lunch yesterday, and I have long introduced them to Estonia's position.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U72	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U73	Thank you very much. Honourable Minister for Foreign Affairs in his duties as Prime Minister. Rail Baltic is undoubtedly very important to us. It is important for us to connect with Europe, it is important for traffic, including safety, it is important for transport. When you answered the question before, you said that the political will of the government is entirely there and the authorities are working hard to ensure that Rail Baltic comes to us. Well, I don't know, I'm listening to your answers, and I'm listening to stories from here and there, and the Committee on Economic Affairs has been briefed, but there is still a problem. And worries probably won't go away until the first set of rails in 2022 hopefully gets down. The question is that in the coalition programme, Rail Baltic is really dependent on one particular fact. That's one. Secondly, at the moment, in the European Union's funding talks, we are not represented by any authority, but by a politician or party representing the government, who has clearly declared that they do not want Rail Baltic here. So the motivation to stand up for Rail Baltic is extremely low. And thirdly, on that list you read out, Rail Baltic is still in third position. Is this not a place of concessions when, for example, agricultural subsidies need to be negotiated? So please be nice and tell me if there's any way you can make sure that Rail Baltic is coming and that the first set of rails in 2022 will be set down.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U74	If I were the king who writes the budget of the European Union alone, I would give 100% of the bill. I'd do that. Don't be afraid, Mr. Good Asker. But, in fact, I dare confirm, clearly and unambiguously: no, it is not a priority line, about so that we stand for the first more than the second. I read those points in random order. I don't even know how they went into the government decision protocol. We didn't rank those most powerful priorities like the beauty contest. The Prime Minister of Estonia stands for all of them. We'll see what really comes out in the negotiations. I'm sceptical about the prospect of being able to agree on this weekend or this meeting, but let's see how things go. Surely we will not give up our country's position on an easy hand. I can assure you that was also the attitude of the government yesterday. As regards whether Martin Helme as Minister of Finance actually represents the position that has been agreed in the government, one thing is the views of individual politicians or political parties, the other is the position of the state. I have no doubt that he represents it. I also have, I say frankly, a number of questions as a politician. I'd write down the government's position differently. I'm not denying it. But that doesn't mean I'm not loyal to the government's political line that's been agreed. There's nothing to say. However, as far as the unity of the government is concerned, the Reform Party sent Igor Gräzini, the fiery opponent of Rail Baltic, to the European Parliament. This created a chaotic layer throughout Europe because Igor Gräzin began to fight with the highest political mandate of the Reform Party to ensure that Estonia does not actually receive funding. This was, in fact, the line of the Reform Party that was set up in the European Parliament. And I have to be honest with you: it was at the end of the last parliamentary term, but I am not sure that its afterwave will no longer float across Europe. So when it comes to consistency, the act and the word unity, for example, in foreign policy, I must honestly say that such questions give the impression of surrealism, such as Salvador Dalí, when I look at the handwriting of the Reform Party. The same can be said of Huawei's question. Urmas Paet also writes that we should give up cooperation with China on 17 + 1 initiatives, so what terrible stories, what a Chinese regime on human rights. At the same time, I remember that Urmas Paet was the Estonian Foreign Minister who, together with Andrus Ansip, decided to join the cooperation in this format. With the country's foreign policy position, even if you are in opposition position, there is no point in playing with such an easy hand that today here, tomorrow there, the day after tomorrow here, the day after tomorrow there. Consistency, reliability and clarity are our trumps.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U75	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U76	The next question, No 9, is asked by Katri Raik and answered by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U77	Good President! Good minister! My question is indirectly motivated by the decision of the Supreme Court of 9 December last year on the provision of social services in the city of Narva. In particular, this concerns the financing of local government for the provision of social services. § 154 of the Constitution states that the State must provide the local authorities with sufficient funds to carry out their statutory tasks and the local government must not refuse to provide the compulsory social services provided by the Social Welfare Act on the ground that it does not have enough money to provide the services. I'm afraid that's the way it's gonna happen. And here's the question. Do you think that the current model of municipal funding, according to which the local government has a wide margin of discretion, which areas it prioritises and which ones it does not, is in accordance with the Social Welfare Act? The Social Welfare Act clearly provides that people must be given help when they need help.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U78	Thank you very much for your question. It is true that the particular decision of the Supreme Court to which you refer is, in any case, very signicant. I would even say that it has received less attention than it should have been, I mean such a broader social debate. It is also true that the Social Welfare Act and, in fact, many other laws, such as the Local Government Organisation Act, are relatively abstract in their design. They provide guidance, they aim and they often establish principles, but monitoring of compliance with these principles, monitoring is often done on a case-by-case basis, when an issue is raised. Internships between local authorities are very different. It is also true that our 79 municipalities are different in terms of location, size, population and population trends in tens, hundreds and more. So, in a sense, harmonisation would be necessary, but it can probably be done up to a certain limit. For example, the development of regulations similar to those of the City of Tallinn or the City of Tartu with about 100 inhabitants may not be reasonable and feasible, but at the same time, as a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, the citizen of Ruhnu has the same right to receive assistance and support. So here, I think, there is a space of thought that should be made more precise in law or, on the contrary, given some things to the level of ministerial regulations, to the level of government regulations. Perhaps a basic material could be developed, a guide for local authorities, how one or the other rule should be interpreted and how much better the organisation of the local authorities' own services should be defined. In this sense, this Supreme Court's decision is in any case also a good guide for local governments to review their internal rules of procedure and other legislation. The other half of this solution is, of course, the most important in a person's view, and that is the principle for which I stand in every way, which I fully support: a person must receive help, regardless of what is stated in a specific regulation or other legislation of a municipality, and of what the financial resources are or whether human resources are available. A person cannot be held liable if he or she is unable to provide the necessary services prescribed by law. This is a fundamental angle of approach, which undoubtedly also places a greater obligation on municipalities to increase the volume of services. I think that this really must be done; it also ties very clearly with the issue of long-term care that we have dealt with before. This is where it is necessary to clearly increase the sums of money, attention and cooperation of both the state and local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U79	Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U80	Thank you. My second question is very specific, relating to the establishment of a special care home for people with mental disabilities planned by Narva. The special care service is known to be borne by the state. In the past, in August, you have presented your position to the residents of Narva, explaining why it is reasonable and necessary to establish such a nursing home. In recent days, establishing a special care home or not setting up a special care home is Narva city theme No 1, which is discussed in every home. At the same time, 40 people in Narva receive special care services somewhere else and 58 people still need help, i.e. there is help in order. This information comes from the Social Insurance Board and AS Hoolekandeteenused. I would ask you to reiterate your position on the establishment of a special care home in Narva. For my part, I promise to convey your thoughts in Narva.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U81	Thank you very much for the important question. The truth is that when we talk about special care services, when we talk about people in need, we must not deal with labelling them. We must not forget that we are talking about people among us, about people around us. These are not abstract numbers or in any way less valuable people than us. These are the basic principles that must be followed, I think, by cooperation between the state and local authorities in this area. In my opinion, it makes sense for Narva to have the possibility of receiving special care services close to home for local residents in particular. The establishment of large state or other institutions, with hundreds of people together across Estonia, has been a prior state policy, is certainly not sensible. Rather, let it be a near - home opportunity that allows people to enjoy as much of the life of the community as possible, and it is also easier for loved ones to visit the wards. This is certainly a sensible course, and this is also the way the country is going in cooperation with the municipalities. We know that disputes concerning the location, which concern several details, are, in fact, in many places. It is in itself that municipalities and representatives of the state have somewhat different concepts of where the service provider could be located. But surely nothing must be decided at the expense of the well-being of people and in any way offensive or tagging, in any way discriminatory. And there must still be a very clear understanding on both sides, both the state and the municipalities, that the aim is to find a solution how it can, not how it cannot.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U82	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U83	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Social Affairs! I'm very sympathetic with your principles and your views. These are our people, these are our own sons-daughters, siblings, mothers-dads who need this service. And we are talking not only about the possibility of receiving a service, but also about additional jobs in the region. Consequently, this is a very good idea. I myself took part in the debate in Narva, where the interpretation of the judgment was discussed. The employees of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the people of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice as well as the representatives of the Social Insurance Board and the judges explained the case and the judgment. It stated that indeed, the problem of people must be solved, but ordering is not a solution to the problem. However, we also know that there are queues in special care, which is actually a public service. Municipalities may not have the capacity to provide it immediately, either with money or often with service providers. Should it not, however, be seen in the context of this case and the judgment that exactly the same conditions as those imposed on local authorities must also be guaranteed by the State when providing special care services?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U84	Thank you very much for the relevant question. The short answer is this: I think it is really right to look at the country and the municipalities as service providers in the same way as possible. Indeed, we cannot, as a country, set higher standards for local authorities, either in legislative terms or through the judicial system, than the state takes on. The fact that we have very long queues both for special care and for a wider range of long-term care services is a common concern and problem for the state and local authorities. And I would say that in the long term, it is, frankly, a disgraceful situation. It has to be resolved as a matter of force. We will also submit the necessary additional requests for funding in the debate on the country's budgetary strategy. More broadly, better cooperation between the health and social protection sectors will hopefully help to solve the problem. But the long-term direction must certainly be to minimize the queues. And rather, the order may be on the principle that if a person is not yet sure whether or not he or she needs a service, he or she will be on the waiting list. But a person who really needs a service now and now cannot get it only in his own home. Neither the state nor the municipality can leave a person dependent on the capacity, time and financial resources of his or her loved ones to support him or her.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U85	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U86	The next question, number 10, is from Aivar Sõerd, answered by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This morning, the Ministry of Social Affairs issued a press release that the Ministry sent a draft to confirm the pension index, which says that the old age pension will increase to 528 euros. However, unfortunately, the Ministry's press release does not mention that this EUR 528 does not reach the pensioner's account because, unlike before, if the average pensions were exempt from income tax, the part of the income tax that exceeds EUR 500 will now go into taxation. The Ministry's message could still have been comprehensive. If we move on from here, we have a lot of working pensioners. And if, for example, an employed pensioner receives an average salary as well as a pension, there may be a situation that, by adding them together, the tax-free income will be reduced to a minimum and then the pension will be fully taxed on income tax. This is all the impact of the amendment to the Tax Act with tax humps adopted at the end of 2016. Since 1200 euros, the tax-free rate is starting to decline sharply, and today there has been a situation where even the simpler, more ordinary workers with a minimum wage, teachers of general education schools with a minimum wage, nor has this 500 euros of tax-free income been granted to them. I am asking you: are you satisfied with a tax system that taxes the average pension and taxes the higher working pensioners? Are you satisfied with this, and have you not suddenly thought that this could be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U88	Thank you very much for your question. I'll answer in line. First of all, as far as the elderly are concerned, it is true that in the past we had a slightly different calculation of the tax-free income. The last time the elderly had a tax-free income of 236 euros separately, plus 180 euros of total tax-free income for all, totalling 416 euros. It is now EUR 500 for everyone and there is no separate tax-free income for the elderly. The system has changed. However, it is also true that if the former person receiving the average pension worked, his pension was not exempt, he had to choose whether he would use the tax-free income, the share of EUR 180 in the salary calculation, or he would use it in the calculation of the pension. It could not be used in both cases, so even in this case, it actually had to pay income tax on its pension exactly as all those who earned an over-average pension. So the situation has really changed somewhat in this view, but it cannot be said that it is radically different. I do not agree with this argument. As regards the tax-free system that entered into force in 2018, I continue to think that this was the right step. This has actually helped many people with lower salaries. This actually helps the vast majority of the elderly. We have done these calculations: there has been an increase in the tax-free income of older people, an increase in the proportion of pensioners who have not had to pay income tax, and, above all, a rise in the net income of people earning low and average wages up to 64 euros per month, which is a very considerable additional amount of money over the year. The other way around is that no system is eternal. No system can be maintained unchanged for the next 10, 20, 30 years. Every government has discussed tax policy and it is likely that this government will also discuss it. The average old-age pension has risen and has indeed reached more than 500 euros since 1 April. There has also been an increase in the minimum wage, which in the past was equivalent to tax-free income. It increased last year to 540 euros and this year to 583 euros. In this situation, in which income has been raised, the minimum wage, the pension and the average wage have increased, the government needs to discuss how to proceed with the tax-free system. As of the moment, decisions have not yet been taken, I have described possible directions in the past. The question is whether to change the tax-free income for all, or to start setting up some target groups, they are older, they are low-paid, they are families with higher numbers of children. Or, for example, the rules on tax-free income should be changed so that it does not start to decrease at EUR 1200 anymore and does not reach zero at EUR 2100, but will return to zero later and then fall later. There are different options, they need to be discussed by the government as a whole, and certainly these discussions are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U89	Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U90	Thank you. Dear Minister, In addition to the Social Affairs Minister's office, you are also a member of the Central Party's tax board, as can be read in the paper, even the head of this panel. I know that you have had three options on the agenda on how to cancel or reverse this hunchback tax system. These are the three options. The first option would be an average pension tax exemption, the second option would delay this tax hump, and the third option would be that the tax formula would change so that everyone would have a certain tax-free minimum. It is already approaching our proposal that EUR 500 be exempt from income tax for everyone. You have three options on the table, and it is now time for the country's budget strategy to be drawn up. You have three options like the pharmacy reform, several of which are here in the Riigikogu. What about this: have you chosen one of these three options by now and, since everyone has a big banner of money, is there any hope that one of them will be on the table during the debate on the country's budgetary strategy? What option would your first preference be as of today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U91	Thank you very much for your question. There are two things to be distinguished from here. One is a coalition of government, which consists of three partners, the other is a tax working group of the Estonian Central Party, which consists mainly of members of the party, but there is also involvement in external expertise. The proposals of the Centre Party are certainly not binding on the Government Coalition; they cannot be the basis for taking a'start-up' position either. In particular, however, the government makes its decisions as a result of a debate within the government, and the party acts in its own rhythm. The work field of the Centre Party's Tax Policy Group is actually very broad. We are not only talking about the tax-free system, we are talking more broadly, we are talking about taxation of profits, we are talking about digital tax, we are talking about tax policy opportunities for local governments. We look at the tax system as a whole. We will present our proposals during the spring of this year, and certainly in particular with a view to a broader social debate, not specifically a national budget strategy. As we know, we also have elections coming up again, these are local elections, these are Riigikogu elections, where people can think about whether one or the other positions are sympathetic to them or not. As regards the Reform Party's proposal, which you have pointed out at €500 of tax-free income for all, I do not support it, and for a very simple reason. If a person earns EUR 1 000 or less today, he will not win a single euro from the implementation of your proposal, as you well know. However, a person who earns more than 2100 euros wins. He wins 100 euros or more depending on his income, and that is basically what I don't think is right. The direction to grant benefits to the most prosperous part of society through tax policy, leaving aside precisely the poorest part of the population, it certainly does not coincide with my world view. When we are talking about harmonising tax-free income, I would certainly see it along with an increase in income tax, precisely in order not to create a situation where the poorer part of the population will pay more or lose or change nothing for them, but at the same time the wealthier part of society will win financially. This is essentially a different starting position.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U92	Thank you. There are no more questions on this issue, I will stop looking at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U93	Next, Question 11, asks Jüri Jaanson and answers the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U94	Thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! I see you are a broad-profile politician: it would also be very good to discuss tax issues with you, but you just can't make it. The subject of my question is a little different, still social. I'd like you to pay more attention to this. Indeed, our society is moving towards a greater exchange of information, and it is through audiovisual media that an important part of information is exchanged. More and more people in studies or workplaces are increasingly using audio-video opportunities. But what is the subject of the question? It is that on 16 January there was a meeting of the government where you decided not to support the amendments to the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, which would signal to the national broadcasting that the deaf also exist alongside the hearing impaired and that attention could be paid to them. This does not mean in any way that national broadcasting does not pay attention to them. I have sent you a written question as to why you do not support this amendment, because the Ministry of Social Affairs does not support it. Why don't you support improving the accessibility of the deaf and push these people away from society? I didn't get a specific answer. I cannot read what you have all responded to right now, and therefore I will ask you directly again: why do you not support this bill? Why do you think that deaf people should not be highlighted in the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act in terms of accessibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U95	Honourable questioner! It is true that this issue is very important. In this sense, I congratulate you on bringing this up both in the form of an amendment and in public speeches and in today's debate. When we talk about my answer to you, we actually stressed that we support this objective, we support this idea. But we cannot make decisions for the Ministry of Culture, for national broadcasting or for the government as a whole. However, the goal is the right one. We certainly did not say in this letter that we do not support the extension of target groups. I'm just gonna say it by heart. There was the opposite sentence. I'm not going to find it so quickly in this two-page letter, but, according to my memory, we supported this proposal. As far as the Government's decision as a whole is concerned, the Government really discussed this issue on 16 January and very clearly stated that it supports the objective of the draft to increase accessibility of audiovisual media services. These discussions should be conducted as a matter of urgency with national broadcasting and, according to their possibilities, extend the availability of news and other audiovisual services to different target groups. I think it's the only way. A accessibility task force has also been called to the State Chancellery according to the government's work plan and specifically to discuss how different target groups would receive different services-products across the country. Whether it is different species of trees, be it age or regional target groups. Unfortunately, there are many different barriers to accessibility in the country. So I think we're very clearly on your side of the front line here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U96	Thank you. We have five minutes. Very briefly, the question and also the brief answer. Please, Jüri Jaanson, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U97	Thank you very much. I will try to be brief. You mentioned the accessibility task force. Yes, the Accessibility Task Force will have to present its work results by 2023. There is also the EU Accessibility Directive, which must improve all accessibility, but it will only be in force in 2025. So these are all much bigger and broader issues. All we're talking about right now is the law on national broadcasting. If you now open up these talks, it is very welcome, by the way, that the government is going to negotiate with the national broadcasters, what opportunities are available, then we should definitely also negotiate the possibility of hearing impaired people. The hearing impaired are well described in Article 5 (1) of the National Broadcasting Act, but they do not have access to live broadcasts as the deaf do. There's nothing to do, power to work! I'm sure I'd like you to negotiate. Then again, why might there be hearing impaired in the law, but not deaf? Explain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U98	Mr Jaanson, thank you for your follow-up. In the meantime, I found this place in my letter I was referring to earlier. I read it out: the Ministry of Social Affairs supports the purpose of the proposed draft, including the inclusion of the deaf among the target groups of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. As I said, we are very clearly in agreement with you here. And, of course, in cooperation with both national broadcasting and various civil society organisations, we need to negotiate how to achieve this goal in the best way and what year it will be done. We certainly don't have to wait until the task force is done. I was simply referring to the fact that we are actually dealing with the issue of accessibility on a broad scale.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U99	Thank you. I thank all the questioners! I thank the ministers for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U100	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 5th working week session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? No, it's not. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 72 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 29. Before we go to today's agenda, one more detail of the agenda. Today's first item of the agenda, 73 members of the Riigikogu's statement on History Memory and Forgery of History, 140 members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Ruuben Kaalep, will make a presentation at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U101	We can go to the discussion of today's agenda items. The first item items are: Members of the Ri Ri Parliament Anti Polandmets, Enn Esmaa, Jaak Jusmaa, Jaak Juss, Käi Iss, Käi Isss, Käi Iss, Käss, Käss, Käss, Käss, Sss, Ssss, Ssss, Ssss, Sssss, Ssss, Sssss, Sssssat, Sssss, Ssssss, Ssssss, Sssss, Sssss, Sssss, Ssssssss, Ssss, Ssssssss, Ssss, Ssssssssssss, Ssssssss, Sssssss, Sssss, Ss, Sssssss, Sssssssss, Ssssss, Sssssss, Ssss, Ss, Ss, Sssssssssss, Sssssssssssssssssss, Sssssssssssss, Ssssssssssss, Ss, Ss, Ssss, Ss, Sssss, Sss, Ss, Ssss, Sssssss, Ssssssssssss, Sssss, Ssssssssss, Sssssssssssssssssss, Sssss, Ss, Ssssssssssssssss, Sssssssssssss, Ssssssssssssss, Ss, Ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss I ask Marko Mihkelson, member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U102	Ladies and gentlemen, On 14 May 1996, President Lennart Meri held an annual lecture on history at the University of Tartu, where, among other things, he said: "I have been, as you know, historically interested, and therefore I have a tendency to prioritise the role of history sometimes. At the same time, I am convinced that a safe future can only be guaranteed to Estonia through our entire history experience. One country cannot have two historys that stand back against each other. Culture produces security. Political culture must be able to determine exactly the position of the state in time and space at any moment, as in the bridge. Both coordinates are constantly changing from definition to definition, and the Estonian dialogue with the surrounding world must respond to this change just as sensitively if we want the Estonian ship to stay on the Estonian course in a crosswind or storm. ' These are powerful and timeless words that are best suited to introduce the draft statement 'History Memory and Forgery of History' initiated by 73 members of the Riigikogu from this high panel of representation of the people. History has always been much closer to Estonia than to many other countries or peoples in our cultural and political space. Dramatic images of homes have been given to us because the fate of each of our families reflects better than often the laconical textbook texts of our people's complex formation, self-perpetuation, and the persistence of hope in spite of the harsh struggles. We have learned to survive, even when our minds have been violently silenced and self-destructed. We have been kept on the right course of faith in eternal righteousness, shaped by a common understanding of our own progress through time and space. That is the main reason why we cannot and must not remain silent today when there is an information attack to threaten our sovereignty and to break the principle of legal continuity. In many episodes, Estonia's path to restoring independence was linked to the requirement to disclose and condemn the secret protocols of the non-aggression treaty between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union. The fight for the recognition of the MRP's injustice was one of the main topics of the singing revolution. On 23 August 1989, the Baltic human chain informed the world that despite a long period of occupation, our nations were not broken. Stalin's clever match with Hitler, which has gone down in history as the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, triggered the greatest tragedy in human history, World War II. It killed nearly 85 million people, or about 3% of the world's 2.3 billion inhabitants in 1940. Estonia lost 83000 people killed, or about 7% of the population. The casualties of our immediate neighbour, Latvia and Lithuania were even more severe, 12% and 14% of the pre-war population respectively. Today, Belarus lost a quarter of the population in the world war, Ukraine 16% and today Russia 12%. The first victim of World War battles in Poland lost 5 million people killed. These and many other frightening numbers have long created the assumption that, as we recall World War II, we should focus first and foremost on commemorating all the victims and direct our contemporary willpower to prevent the recurrence of this immeasurable human tragedy. This is why it has become a good practice in Estonia over the years to remember the victims of the great war respectfully. That doesn't mean we don't remember crimes against humanity, they're timeless. The events of World War II still affect relations between many countries both in Europe and in Asia. Only reducing time and day politics from emotionally complex historical topics cures wounds. 75 years after the end of the war, replacing the discourse of the winner-loser with the motive of reconciliation and forward-looking cooperation is more beneficial in maintaining and strengthening our modern international security. Unfortunately, the issues of World War II in Russia are still over-politicised, which in turn has a direct impact on the communication background with its neighbours in Europe. In 2009, Vladimir Putin reported to the Polish media that the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was immoral, holding the same line as the Congress of Soviet Deputies in December 1989 condemning the Pact and its secret protocols. It's not like that today. The justification of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact and the praise of Stalin's conquest diplomacy in Russia have received the highest political approval. Moscow-based statements have become particularly powerful and massive in terms of social media opportunities since last summer. For example, on 22 August 2019, Sergei Narychkin, Head of Foreign Intelligence and Chairman of the National History Association, wrote: 'The tactical agreement with Hitler allowed the coalition of the British-French peacemakers and axis states to be broken, ensured peace for the Soviet Union for several years and helped to move the border with Germany to the west. National security was the main measure of the propensity of the agreement. As we moved on quickly, the Red Army reached the borders of the former Russian Empire in Poland in five days. [---] I also note that the presence of Soviet troops both in Poland and later in Pribaltika promised to prevent mass anti-Jewish pogroms. ' Only this quote is filled with a Stalinist fake narrative that, when compared with facts, cannot stand the slightest criticism. It is sufficient to read, for example, books based on the rich sources of archives of Mark Solonin, one of the most well-known Russian war historians of today, which is also available in Estonian, or to listen to performances in YouTube included in his enjoyable logic. I will bring out just a few details of the history that disprove Narychkin's claims. The pact with Hitler allowed Stalin to launch an aggression against the capitalist West, prepared from the 1920s. The myth of the peace-loving Soviet Union crumbles when we recall that by autumn 1939 Stalin had created by far the world's most powerful and capable army, who under the MRP began to wage conquest wars from Poland to Finland and from Bessarabia to the Baltic States. Narychkin is wrong to mention that the MRP allowed the border to be moved west with Germany. On 23 August 1939 the Soviet Union had no border with Germany, which arose after Poland was divided in September 1939. Of course, Katyn's blood work, for example, does not fit the Naryshkin narrative, during which over 20000 Polish citizens were executed by the NKVD in the spring of 1940. Blaming Poland and the Baltic States for designing anti-Jewish pogroms is also a forgery of history in the most authentic way. The lead line given by Narõškin was quickly taken by both the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its massive social media campaign to date and by President Vladimir Putin at the end of last year, who, justifying the MRP, accused Poland of contributing to the release of World War II and creating a favourable ground for the Holocaust. Russia has used history in the service of its daily policy before, but it has not done so consistently and with the application of global social media. About a third of the posts distributed by Russian diplomatic representations on Twitter relate to the events of World War II. Whether this is done by the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, their embassy in Tallinn or South Africa, the pattern is still the same. What is remarkably dangerous is that Russian diplomats have made a powerful excuse for the MRP and its secret protocols. On 27 August 2019, the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs wrote about Twitter's tweet, for example, by sharing a booklet published in the Baltics from World War II: '1990. In the early 1970's, the Baltic peoples became independent. This event gave rise to the hope that the Baltic Soviet Republics could become modern democratic and rule-of-law countries, which unfortunately never came true. ' Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that this statement does not call into question the role of the Soviet peoples in the victory over Nazism to the slightest extent by the Riigikogu. It was a severe ordeal that required the lives of millions of people. It is our duty today to make every effort to ensure that this tragedy never recurs. Therefore, we cannot agree with those positions that justify the release of World War II and the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, which later led to the occupation and annexation of Estonia. So we are in solidarity with those who have already condemned the justification of the MRP. Among other things, this has been done by the parliaments of several European countries, the European Parliament and top politicians, as well as by the Yad Vashem Museum of the Holocaust in Jerusalem. The historical concept of Stalin's crimes lies behind the hidden desire to indirectly legitimise the continuation of the conquest policy in modern times, one of the sad proofs of which is the sixth-year war in Ukraine. At the same time, the leadership of the neighbouring country is trying to give the deceptive impression that Russia is still the most peace-loving country in the world. February 15, s. "Russia has never attacked or invaded, " said Vyacheslav Volodin, Chairman of the State Duma. Today, Russia is defending peace so that aggression does not expand at the expense of even more countries. " The question is, " Is it really? ' One of the objectives of our draft statement is to emphasise the importance of historical knowledge in shaping a much-spoken coherent society. Do we do enough to remember our history? Do we appreciate the work of our historians in keeping society at the centre of such important values? Are we helping our teachers to popularize the history of their homeland among young people? Do we care about history when we make decisions tomorrow? In teaching and popularising history, it is important to remember that it not only promotes the factual knowledge of new generations, but also develops their functional literacy, critical thinking, reasoning skills, drawing conclusions and establishing links, and shaping and justifying their position. Historical education contributes to empathy skills to place itself in someone else's position in the context of an era and provides tools for cooperation and conflict-solving skills. I am sure that the debate already taking place during the joint session of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Culture during the preparation of this draft gave the subject to our further debates. I'll finish with the quote, as I started. Historian and diplomat, Estonia's current Ambassador to Moscow, Margus Laidre, has said: 'It is easy to remember the past, it has already happened and it cannot be changed. But we can change the present and the future. In fact, we live in the future in the past, something we call "the present." We must remember that we have a future and that our decisions affect it. Don't forget your past, be aware of the present, but remember the future. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U103	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I now request a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Reuben Kaalepi.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft began on 20 January when, at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Marko Mihkelson proposed to initiate a statement on the subject of history memory and history counterfeiting. A meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs was held on 23 January, where the views of the political groups were heard and a working group was set up to draw up the text. The group was composed of one representative from each group. These included Marko Mihkelson, Anti Half Office, Jaak Juske, Mikhail Lotman, and Aadu Black. On 29 January, the application started to collect signatures on the text, then the following day arrived and it became clear that the signatures had been collected for a total of 73. The draft was submitted to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, the Bureau took the draft into procedure, appointed the commission of foreign affairs and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 10 February. The meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 11 February revealed that no amendments had been tabled. The Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be put on the agenda by 19 February and that the final vote be carried out. The representative of the Commission was appointed at the beginning of the Anti Seminar, but yesterday it became clear that Anti must attend the meeting of the Rakvere City Council, and unanimously I was appointed the representative of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is a very important draft that we could all support. Russia is a country that considers itself to be the legal successor of the Communist Soviet Union, who does not recognise the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty and continues to occupy part of Estonia's territory, who has used the same means against the territorial integrity of Georgia and Ukraine and continues the anti-national assimilation policy against Finno-Ugric indigenous peoples. These are not just different historical perspectives. For Russia, history is a foreign policy instrument to attack Estonia and our fate mates, who were occupied during World War II. As long as the Moscow regime continues to justify what happened during World War II, we cannot be certain that nothing like this will happen again in the future. I very much hope that we can all support this statement together, leaving aside our party membership for a moment and giving priority to Estonia's historical identity and national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U105	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U106	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your review. I heard that there were five people in the Committee on Foreign Affairs who started drafting this text, and one of them was Mr Aadu Black. But I couldn't find his signature right now. Did you go a little bit, as they say, cross skis or is it a coincidence that Aadu's Black signature isn't here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U107	Thank you. The working group, which drafted this text, was not only made up of members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Unfortunately, I cannot comment on why Aadu Black decided not to sign this bill. You'll have to ask him yourself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U108	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland of Mikhail Lotman, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U109	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! We're talking about history, and let me make a little historical introduction. 'History is war, and this war needs to be won. ' Those remarkable words were said by Russian President Vladimir Putin at his meeting with historians on 22 June 2016. These words were spoken in connection with the battles of the so-called Great Patriotic War. According to Putin's logic, the battles of this war continue, among other things, in historical concepts. No Russian ruler has paid more attention to history than Putin does, and his activity in this area is growing. Some examples. Military actions against Ukraine have been orchestrated by a word war in the field of history. I'm gonna put aside the propaganda choir right now and limit myself to Putin's own sayings. First, the attack on the Kiev front. According to the leading historical concepts, Russian statehood began in Kiev. The so-called Kiev-Russian is in all Russian history books. This humiliating fact of Russian chauvinism needs to be changed. In 2001, when visiting Novgorod, Putin shocked historians with the proposal to see Russian statehood begin not in Kiev, but in Novgorod. At that time, leading Russian historians viewed this proposal with ironic skepticism, responding that this was not possible. Plato thought it would take three generations to make a lie work in society for the truth. In the age of mass media, this can be achieved in a much shorter time frame. Putin did not fail, and in 2018 he announced as a self-evident fact: 'Novgorod, as the cradle of ancient Russian statehood, has always played a special role in the history of our country, in the development of the traditions of statehood and patriotism. " And no historian argued against him anymore. In brackets, it could be noted that Putin confused two Novgorods. The birth of Russian patriotism may be conditionally associated with Novgorod, but not with Great, but with Nizhny Novgorod, where Minin and Požarski assembled the Defence Forces to free Moscow from the Poles in 1612. Now for the historic attacks on the Crimean front. Quotes: 'Crim has always been part of Russia', 'Crazy Khrushchev (variant: Ukrainian Khrushchev, which is wrong) arbitrarily cut Crimea away from Russia and gave it to Ukraine' etc. The voice of Putin differs from that of the propaganda choir. Not in any arbitrary conversation, but in a letter to both Chambers of Parliament, Putin stated literally on 4 December 2014: 'Here, in ancient Korsun, Prince Vladimir baptized himself, and as a result, 'a united Russian nation formed, which united the various tribes and tribal alliances of all East Slavic lands,' and 'on this soil our ancestors became one nation for the first time and for all time'. 'This gives us the right to claim that Crimea, ancient Korsun, Chersonesus, has a sacral significance for Russia. Like Temple Mountain to Jews and Muslims. ' So, forget Kiev and Novgorod, the sacral cradle of Russian nationalism is in Crimea. It's pointless to look for historical facts or logic here. How can the mythical story of the Viking blood being baptized by the Kiev Prince in Crimea lay the foundation for the Crimean belonging to Moscow, which at that time no one had ever heard of? Now for the events on the front of our history. They are subject to the same logic that allowed the sacralisation of Crimea. The Soviet Union was said to have been a peaceful state, but the MRP was said to have been necessary as the Baltic States and Poland intended to form an alliance with Nazi Germany against the Soviet Union. Compare the significant article on the MRP in Russian Wiki: the second world war was started by Poles, but not by Soviet allies, etc. Not all of these are innocent lies that we could condescendingly ignore. These lies have blood stains on them. We are not going to disprove them, but we are going to contrast the lies with historical truth. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U110	Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme, please, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Conservative People's Party unanimously supports the Riigikogu's initiative to condemn the attempts of the Russian Federation to rewrite history for the sake of its great state ideology. The attitude to history is an indicator. The provocative speeches of the Kremlin, including the justification of Stalin's political steps and the counterfeiting of historical facts, show that Russia can still act as the Soviet Union in 1939 and 1940 when it occupied Estonia and other Baltic states. In addition to condemning Russia's attempts to whiten the crimes of the Soviet regime, we also want to draw attention to the fact that the current Russia continues not to recognise the existence of the legitimate Republic of Estonia and our territorial integrity. At the end of last month, Maria Zahharova, spokesperson of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, made a strong statement claiming that the Tartu Peace Treaty was invalid when celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Tartu Peace Treaty. The Estonian Conservative People's Party clearly sees this as an attempt to rewrite history. Russia's aim is to create a situation in which it is convenient for them to claim that the Republic of Estonia was born not in 1918, but in 1991, and thereby to prove to the whole world that there has been no occupation. By reducing the Tartu Peace Treaty to a historical document, Russia is trying to achieve a moral victory in everything that concerns their position on the issue of occupation and makes the whole idea of our national continuity questionable, as well as the legitimacy of our independence. The Estonian state must not allow this to happen. We also believe that there should be consensus among Estonian politicians regarding the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty, and attempts to reduce or deny the validity of the peace agreement should find the same condemnation as any other attempt to rewrite history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U112	Thank you. Jaak Juske, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U113	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The main task of the Riigikogu is, as we know, to deal with legislation. The task of the Riigikogu is not to spend time interpreting historical events, it is still the work of historians under normal conditions, generally. Today, however, the Riigikogu has to deal with the recent history of Estonia and Europe. No, we have no doubt that the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact and its secret protocols signed on 23 August 1939 gave a decisive impetus to the outbreak of World War II. We know that the Baltic countries were occupied as a result. We know that in the first two years of the war, Hitler and Stalin were allies who kindly shared Europe together. We know and respect history facts. Today, however, in Russia, history is being rewritten at the highest level. Yes, history can be interpreted differently, but the conscious disregard of born historical facts is the counterfeiting of history. And since this forgery concerns the fate of Estonia and other Eastern European countries in World War II, we have to respond to it together in the Riigikogu, the Estonian People's Council. The main objective of Putin's new concept of history is to restore the credibility of the people of Russia, which has been shaken. It is, of course, strange that, as a result of all this, the secret protocols of the MRP are being denied in today's Russia, the existence of which was recognised in 1989 by the Congress of Soviet Union Deputies, the legal predecessor of the Russian Federation. Massive Kremlin propaganda, however, tries to spread this fake history throughout its insane information field, which unfortunately also extends to Estonia and tries to divide our society. It is all the more important for some of our own countrymen, but above all for the world to be reminded of what it was in 1939-1940. It actually did. Forgery of history can cause confusion, but it does not change the true facts. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that, after approving today's statement, the Riigikogu will return to its basic tasks of regular legislative drafting. We actually have reason to be more confident today than ever before, our statehood is certain, our country's legal continuity is certain, our allies are firm. On the eve of the Republic's anniversary, it is precisely the right moment for us to enjoy our free country in particular. Glad history has been on our side in the end. I very much enjoyed the idea of President Kersti Kaljulaid in the speech of the 'Estonian 100' graduation party held at the Estonian National Museum, where he stressed that after the centenary anniversary of his country, we should no longer read each year of independence separately, the same as the dignified nations who have had their own country for centuries. Good Riigikogu, the Social Democrats support the adoption of this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U114	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations; that concludes the negotiations. No amendments to the application have been tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 140 on the draft. We can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since I have already read the names of all 73 members of the Riigikogu for the verbatim report, I will not read these names again when I put the draft to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the Parliament's statement on History Memory and Forgery of History submitted by 73 members of the Riigikogu 140. Please take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, one against, no abstentions. The bill has been accepted as a statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U115	Let's move on to the second item. The second item is the first reading of the draft law 111 on the prevention and resolution of the financial crisis and the amendment of other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U116	Dear Deputy Speaker! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This isn't such a boring bill that everyone has to run away. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will bring a draft to your first reading setting out the possibility of financial penalties with a higher ceiling in the specific financial legislation. This bill relates to the draft law amending the Penal Code pending before the Riigikogu 94, which establishes the basis for the application of high-rate fines in misdemeanour proceedings. The draft provides for high financial penalties for breaches of the laws of the financial sector and of the Anti-money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Act and the basis for their calculation. It must be acknowledged that the current financial penalties ceilings do not always allow the objectives set out in the legislation to be met. The amendment provides for the possibility of applying a penalty that is correlated with the activities and risks of a financial institution, effective and preventative effects of infringements. The changes are part of the creation of a stable and reliable financial services environment, as well as the protection of customers' rights. The draft extends the period of limitation of misdemeanours to three years. The practice has shown that the overall limitation period of two years, due to the complexity of the financial irregularities, is not sufficient for the procedure to be carried out. Under the current law, high-rate coercive money can be used as leverage in the financial sector. However, the existing ceilings for fines for both natural and legal persons are currently not correlated with the activities of the financial sector. Penalty money alone is not enough to ensure that the obligations are met to the required extent. In addition to non-punitive measures, it is important that the offences committed can also be subject to effective penalties. The draft provides for a specific sanction and a maximum sanction for both natural and legal persons, i.e. a fixed financial penalty of EUR 5 million. Secondly, different relative criminal penalties ceilings are laid down and the calculation of the fine may be based on up to three times the benefit of the infringement or the avoided loss or a certain percentage of the legal person's turnover. For example, a fine of up to 10% of the net turnover of the bank or its group may be imposed on the bank in the event of a misrepresentation. The principle applies that the financial penalty calculated on the basis of turnover may be higher than the fixed penalty ceiling and higher penalties should be preferred according to the logic of the ceilings. The law is intended to enter into force in the normal way, presumably in the second half of this year, provided that amendments to the Penal Code which allow the application of a fine with an increased ceiling have also been adopted and entered into force in this Chamber. That concludes my brief introduction and I am ready to answer the questions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U117	Thank you. Indeed, you also have questions. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Indeed, the current maximum fine for financial institutions was EUR 32000. But I remember when I asked here once, when we were faced with the head of the Financial Supervision Authority, how many fines have been imposed, I got the answer a couple of times, worth 3,000 to 4,000 euros a year. Why, then, have even EUR 32000 not been fined according to previous practice? This 32000 is still more than EUR 3000.4000. Haven't we had any problems with credit institutions in Estonia, everything has been fine, or hasn't it just been considered necessary to monitor and deal with fines?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U119	Thank you. Of course, the supervisory authorities will explain this in more detail and will also be able to explain specific examples. Yeah, there are two different fines here, like there's no very big sample to draw any conclusions from. There has been a constant message from these very supervisory authorities, point one, the same time limit that I referred to. In difficult cases, this time limit just happens before somewhere gets out. Point two, generally the calculations are pretty depressing. In the case of a fine under the ceiling of EUR 32000, the cost of proceedings may even be up to a hundred times more expensive. Just to get this EUR 32000, the costs of both the costs of the costs of the work that goes down there can be in hundreds of thousands, or even more. The third thing is that each individual case should be fined in turn, and all of them can be challenged in court. The main reason for this is that any fine, regardless of whether it has a minimum or a maximum rate, ends on a multi-annual basis. As a result, as I said in my introductory report, what the government is planning and for which the analyses have ended is a change in the procedure itself. We are still introducing an administrative fine instead of a misdemeanour in such cases, and the administrative fine has a completely different procedural logic so that it can also be realised in practice. There has been no such thing in Estonia so far. But when we essentially reach 10% of the group's turnover, we're still talking about sums in hundreds of millions. In that case, the cost of obtaining that fine is still tens of times lower than the cost to be incurred. Then the motivation of the supervisory authorities to do these things in the first place will certainly change.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U120	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I am a little concerned about this international enthusiasm, which continues to spread and spread over recent years to increase penalties and extend the spectrum of sanctions, and the belief that this will solve all the problems. I just have the question: did you also discuss in the government that we are not overreacting with all these penalties? Such a reasonable balance between penalties and real economic activity could be ensured.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U122	Thank you. Yeah, of course we did. In fact, it is the logic behind this bill that the punishment must be proportionate. When we talk about banks whose annual turnover, net turnover, group turnover is still in billions of euros and which benefit tens or hundreds of millions from the infringement, and then they go to EUR 4000 to change their behaviour or discourage them, it is not proportionate. The desire to make the punishment proportionate to the infringement is a desire to uphold this draft. More broadly, yes, speaking of whether we or the rest of the world have run too hard with their big, I don't know, hundred million or billion fines, it is probably a matter of world-view or general political philosophy in some respects. But the fact is, the rest of the world has gone that way. The fact is also that in Estonia we see that sanctions have not been effective in preventing infringements. But if it's consolation, I'm still saying it's meant not just to stop business, but to stop lawlessness in business. And that's a very important difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U123	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If you were to evaluate this draft in terms of what could be its deterrent effect? If you compare some years not only in Estonia but more broadly, what effect do you think this could have? What result can we see and should we see after this bill has been adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U125	It's all speculation, of course, isn't it? No penalty can apply afterwards, so we are definitely not talking about money laundering crimes here, we are not talking about applying these fines to the things that happened, I don't know, 2007 or 2014. This is still to prevent further infringements. I think they're effective. I have to say that if we are talking about money laundering in Estonia at all, today, because of the various steps that have been taken, both domestic and international, the risk of money laundering in the Estonian financial sector has sharply decreased. This bill wants this risk to be very low in the future. We all know this saying in English, which, when translated into Estonian, could sound something like money talking and dung walking. Financial institutions in particular are still reading their money accurately and there is certainly no easy risk of high fines.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U126	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Kert Kingo, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U127	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Minutes of the sitting of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee No 33, Tuesday, 28 January. Agenda: Preparation of draft Act 111 on Audit Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic, Prevention and Resolution of the Financial Crisis and Amendment of Other Acts for First Reading. The Commission has been invited by Minister of Finance Martin Helme, Lawyer of the Department of Enterprise and Accounting Policy of the Ministry of Finance Taivo Põrk, Adviser to the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance Janika Aben and Lawyer of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance Linda Lelume. The Minister of Finance Martin Helme explained to the Commission that the bill ensures that the penalty rates resulting from financial law are applied in Estonian law, and the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure is the 94 number, which provides the basis for setting a higher ceiling in the special laws of misdemeanours. The purpose of the draft is to bring the legislative situation into line with the requirements of European Union law by means of amendments or additions. The main focus of the draft is on raising the levels of penalties in the specific financial legislation and the AML/CFT Act. In the past, these fine rates were sometimes too low, with the highest tax rate of EUR 32000 in credit institutions' laws. However, the fines currently in force cannot be considered effective or dissuasive, as they do not allow the actual economic situation of a particular subject to be taken into account. The new regulation is aimed at all financial and credit institutions, insurance undertakings, intermediaries and other obligated parties within the meaning of the AML/CFT Act. This draft provides for three years, instead of two years, in the specific financial legislation, as the Financial Supervision Authority has repeatedly pointed out that the general limitation period is not sufficient to carry out the procedure due to the complexity of the misdemeanours committed in the financial sector. The Financial Inspectorate will be the out-of-court procedure for misdemeanours committed in the financial sector. The FIU will process other offences committed by obliged persons within the meaning of the AML/CFT Act. The draft amends a total of 12 laws, and the most important changes are introduced into the Audit Act. The main part of the draft consists of amendments which provide for a financial penalty with an increased ceiling and repeal individual penalty rules which are covered by other acts or are adequately guaranteed by other punitive measures. There are three independent bases for determining a fine with an increased ceiling. Firstly, the maximum amount of the fixed fine is up to 5 million in most cases. The second basis is that the turnover-based ceiling is up to 10% of the turnover of the legal entity or its consolidated group. The third ground is that there is a corresponding penalty rate for the benefit or loss resulting from a double or triple infringement. The decision on which basis to apply shall be taken by the extra-judicial tribunal, which shall be given a high margin of discretion. In the light of the logic of the ceilings, a higher ceiling should be preferred. The draft act is based on the fact that a financial penalty with an increased ceiling will be imposed if it is directly attributable to European Union law and also if the existing misdemeanour penalty does not allow the obligations under the law to be met in a targeted manner. The chairman of the committee, Jaanus Karilaid, presented to the Commission the joint approach of the Data Protection Inspectorate, the Financial Supervision Authority, the Tax and Customs Board and the Competition Authority regarding the current regulation of punishment. Joint Returnees are of the opinion that inefficient procedures for penalising misdemeanours have become a serious obstacle to the effective performance of the tasks assigned to them. In order to address the above problems, changes to the general part of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and the Penal Code are not sufficient, but it is appropriate to develop a national legal regulation allowing administrative sanctions to be imposed and to adapt the rules of administrative procedure to that effect. Jaanus Karilaid studied the position of the Ministry of Finance regarding the opinion of the joint referees. Mr Helme, Minister of Finance, explained to the members of the Commission and the guests in the Commission that this regulation is being prepared in the Ministry of Justice and that there is political will. It has taken so long for the regulation to be completed because, in the Ministry of Justice, the legal schools have different opinions about this regulation. Linda Lelumees, representative of the Ministry of Finance, explained that Markus Kärner, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, who is also involved in Bill 94, has said that the analysis ordered from the University of Tartu is in the final direction and this analysis is aimed at how the administrative fines of the European Union could be applied in Estonian law. The validation of the analysis is likely to take place in February of this year. The analysis will then be presented at the Ministry and the Minister of Justice will organise a round table with all inspection leaders on the subject of the analysis. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, Taivo Põrk, said that the opinion of the joint returnees that there is a need to develop a legal regulation allowing the application of internal administrative sanctions is correct, but the draft should not go beyond waiting for the above-mentioned regulation to be developed, as the European Union directives need to be transposed into Estonian law. Jaanus Karilaid confirmed that draft 111, or this draft, is very welcome, as fines are currently very low and therefore also weak leverage. Urve Tiidus referred to the various legal schools mentioned by Martin Helme at the Ministry of Justice and asked for clarification on how these school differences affect the development of legal regulations allowing the application of national administrative penalties. Martin Helme explained that the difference between schools is that one school considers that since such administrative sanctions are novel and incompatible with the whole Estonian legal system, it is not possible to apply national administrative sanctions in reality. At the moment, the same procedural logic seeks to deal with very different procedures, such as speeding and money laundering offences. This is difficult to do effectively for many reasons. Raini Laide added that one of the views is that the punishment for misdemeanour is easier than the punishment for crime, but the bill introduces penalties that are higher than those that can be applied for crimes. There is a need to influence the financial sector with higher amounts. The question is whether there should be a completely independent type of procedure for dealing with large financial penalties. Kert Kingo said that he understands that the European Union Directive needs to be transposed into Estonian law, but the directive is out of the context of Estonian misdemeanour and criminal proceedings. Usually, there is a certain level of fines between wrongdoing and more serious offences, which acts as a border. Kert Kingo examined why certain offences with such a high penalty rate are not simply converted into crimes, noting that the offence is a lighter form of offence, but that the penalties provided for in the draft are equivalent to criminal penalties. Martin Helme stated that criminalising everything is not the best option. He said that criminal proceedings had different standards and a higher burden of proof than misdemeanour. There could be a separate possibility to influence the financial sector without, for example, criminal proceedings being initiated immediately in cases of lighter due diligence, such as non-compliance with a questionnaire. This is something completely new, and when the existing system is changed, there is already an operational side that can be run smoothly. Jaanus Karilaid wondered whether the Estonian Banking Association had given its opinion on the draft. Raini Lide replied that the Estonian Banking Association had failed to give an opinion on the draft. Urve Tiidus examined that if the consolidated turnover of the group has to be taken into account in the preparation of the reports and the multinational company does a misdemeanour in Estonia, would the fine be imposed on the basis of the entire group's assets. The Minister of Finance replied that the parties to the proceedings had a relatively high margin of discretion. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, Taivo Põrk, stated that the maximum ceiling was set. He, too, felt that the maximum ceiling set out in the draft was at the beginning as a very large number, but in the case of the fine rates, however, it must be taken into account that, if some practice has lasted for a very long time, the penalty rate will be calculated from one year's turnover. The Minister of Finance, Martin Helme, said that if it is possible to prove what the amount of the infringement was, it would also be fined. Mr Kingo may have examined whether the fine rates to be amended under the draft had previously been set in the form of fine units or amounts. The representative of the Ministry of Finance, Taivo Põrk, said that the unit of fines is a unit of penalties imposed on a natural person and, in the case of a legal person, the unit of penalties is set as an amount. Linda Toymees pointed out that the draft provides that natural persons will not retain the amount of the fine which is in force under the law, natural persons will be subject to high levels of penalties, as legal persons do. This is provided for by European Union law. The unit of fines will also disappear and the draft will set the fines on an amount-based basis. Tarmo Kruusimäe investigated that if a public authority, such as the Financial Supervision Authority, committed a misdemeanour, would the State pay the fine. In his view, the deadline for the expiry of the misdemeanours laid down in the draft is too short. The limitation period could be longer, 3 to 5 years, as errors committed in the financial sector are very complex and there may be all kinds of reasons why the length of the proceedings is prolonged. Mr Helme replied that the Financial Supervision Authority was a supervisory authority which was not subject to fines and that, if corruption took place in a public institution, there were other methods of resolving it. Taivo Põrk of the Ministry of Finance added that there is a general rule that the period of limitation of a misdemeanour is two years and that only in the case provided for by law can the expiry take place within three years. The law simply does not allow for an extension of limitation periods. In addition, Mr Helme stated that this problem could be addressed by the development of a legal regulation allowing the application of national administrative penalties. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 19 February 2020 (consensually), that the first reading be closed (consensually), that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5 March 2020 (consensually), and that the rapporteur be appointed (consensually).
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U128	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions for the co-rapporteur? There are no questions. Now we can open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups can take the floor. Would you like to open negotiations? No, I don't. We therefore now have a proposal from the lead committee to conclude the first reading of draft 111 to take a position. If there are no other proposals, the first reading is closed. The deadline for tabling amendments is 5 March at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U129	We will go to the next item on the third item, i.e. the first reading of the draft law 124 amending the Law on the organisation of the rural and agricultural market and the Law on Employment Services and Aids, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm asking for a presentation of the speech chair, Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act and the Labour Market Services and Aids Act, which is being read, has been developed to enable Estonian farmers to receive agricultural de minimis aid at the maximum permitted rates of the European Union. Agricultural de minimis aid is the most appropriate legal basis for granting aid, because of a simple set of rules, for example in situations where strict EU State aid rules do not provide for the possibility of granting aid or where it is administratively too difficult or costly to implement aid as State aid. The main limitation on de minimis aid is the upper limit laid down in European Union law until which farmers can be supported. In addition, a ceiling is set for the total amount of agricultural de minimis aid granted to a Member State. The purpose of this draft is to allow Estonian farmers to make maximum use of the maximum possible ceiling for de minimis agricultural aid, which is proposed to be EUR 25000 in the Act instead of EUR 20000. The maximum possible total amount of agricultural de minimis aid for Estonia would be 13.7 million instead of 11.4 million for the three fiscal years, both for the farmer and for the State. The implementation of these higher rates is left to the discretion of the Member State in EU law, as their implementation will lead to two additional obligations for the Member State. Firstly, as a new requirement, it must be ensured that more than half of the national ceiling is not granted to one product sector, i.e. the product sector cap will apply. Secondly, it must be ensured that all ceilings are kept in the central register. This draft provides in the Rural and Agricultural Market Management Act the decision of the Estonian State to apply higher ceilings. In order to meet the Commission's additional requirements, there will also be a procedure for keeping records of the product sector ceiling, which will be monitored in the register of State aid and de minimis aid managed by the Ministry of Finance, similar to the company's and the State ceiling. In addition, the Labour Market Services and Support Act will be amended to allow the use of a higher rate of de minimis agricultural aid for aid granted under this law. Thank you. And I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U131	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U132	Good manager! Good waitress! Yeah, I'm glad this cap's been raised. But I did make little rhnungs to correct me if it's not right, which means that about 150 companies can get this aid a year. With regard to the upper limit of the sector, how much can be given to each sector, and the fact that 22 sectors are set together with silkworms and laurels and such things in the European Union, and we qualify for about 15, then again, according to simple calculations, like 10 support should go to each sector, milk and pigs and other things. Is that so, or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U133	Thank you. If the Estonian state had so much money, then yes, it would. At present, however, the largest sector-specific de minimis aid is the bee family allowance of EUR 800000 per year. This is currently the largest and maximum support group in the sector that the Estonian state is implementing. Allowing this de minimis aid as a ceiling is an opportunity for the Estonian state, it is not an obligation. We don't have to use it. It is simply exceptional, rapid aid that can be used in the agricultural sector. At the moment, it's 20000, the future will be 25,000. The de minimis aid currently covers bee family support, some business grants, some preferential loans granted through the MES, and vegetable growers had exceptional support in 2017 due to overconfidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U134	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have already mentioned some areas where this aid has been paid. As a minister, do you see that there could be other activities or things in the future for which this money could be directed according to their rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U136	Thank you. Looking ahead, one of the possible places of use of de minimis aid is the harmonisation of usage prices for small farmers, in order to ensure the competitiveness of the small producers sector and not to immediately increase the price of availability. That would be for the future. This makes it possible to make maximum use of this 25000 limit. It does not entail additional costs for the country; it only goes to increase competitiveness in rural areas and small businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U137	Thank you. Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U138	Good manager! Good waitress! Yeah, I'll remind you, these sectors are 22 in total, with hops and bananas, but in 15 we qualify. Beekeeping is now clear, but you indicated that there are other sectors that I can't find among those 22 that are shared here through the MES. Where are they going in the 22 sectors set out in this list, apart from these birds?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U139	To be exact, the first annex to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union contains 23 product sectors. The bees are separate. When we are talking about interest subsidies for the MES, they go according to the fact that the grain grower is going under grain cultivation, the pig grower is going under the pig sector, the beef and lamb farmers are going under different sectors. So, in Estonia's sense, it doesn't bring the order of magnitude that would be when the maximum Estonian limit was exceeded. While there was more support for pig farming in the past, the maximum threshold for the Estonian state did not reach that point either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U140	No further questions. Thank you, Minister. Now it's the co-rapporteur's turn. Ivari Padar, member of the Rural Affairs Committee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U141	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed this draft on Monday 10 February. All members of the Rural Affairs Committee were present, except Kaido Höökelson and Siret Kotka. Mr. Minister and Deputy Secretary General Marko Gorban, as well as Peegi Kaibald, were invited. Minister Mr Arvo Aller and Deputy Chancellor Marko Gorban took stock of this draft and what it regulates in the same key, as the Minister has now presented here. As we know, what we had for a long time was 15,000 for three years has, in the meantime, reached 20,000, and now 25,000, thanks to the fact that we can control this process. Marko Gorban gave an overview of who are the donors. There are seven of them: Environmental Board, Agricultural Registers and Information Board, Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, Rural Development Foundation, Estonian Environmental Investment Centre, Estonian Agricultural Chamber of Commerce and then one municipality. As interesting as it may be, Rõuge Municipality gives business support. The Minister and the representatives of the Ministry answered questions from the members of the Commission. Tarmo Tamm asked if this threshold could be lower. No limit is the limit, there was an answer, but the aid below the limit can still be used. I may have asked Ivar Padar how the sector was defined. Indeed, the sector is defined as 23 sectors in the European Union. This definition is entirely there. Mr Heiki Hepner was interested in financing these measures. It is predominantly a matter of state resources, one can say, except for this one of the municipal cases that we have here. Merry Aart pointed out that training grants could be granted as de minimis aid. There was also an interest in the KIC-related programmes. In response, it was said that they were specifically linked to environmental programmes. Andrus Seed was interested in the municipalities that provide this de minimis aid. These are business grants, which are awarded primarily in one municipality. It was also a separate issue with regard to the termination of the usufruct contracts. The first usufruct agreements are coming to an end this year or have even ended and it is as if they have to be formally extended. This is the subject we are dealing with in parallel with another draft. The de minimis aid could be applied to the part of the call-in fee that would be between the market price of the land and the tax price if such a situation were to arise. It is simply up to us, with another bill, to look at how it regulates so that there is no market price difference, or if we decide that this market price difference will come, then I do not know exactly how we can do that. Urmas Kruuse noted that the main concern is that users pay a low price for the use of the land and that the objective should be to pay a fair price. Before starting to change anything, the Ministry should give a real overview of the situation and explain what the country's purpose is. So it awaits us that the Ministry will come to us to explain in more detail what this process will look like in the future. In this context, Merry Aart pointed out that it was important to think about both small producers and how much revenue the state would lose. Tarmo Tamm once again pointed out that the issue of usury would be discussed again (which I think we have once again in the Committee on Rural Affairs) in the Committee on Rural Affairs. It was agreed that the deadline for submitting amendments would be ten working days in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, and it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 19 February, i.e. today (the decision was consensual), as well as to propose that the draft 124 should be closed at first reading (the decision was also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U142	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any other questions? Urmas Kruuse, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your report, you stated nicely that it would, on the one hand, create an opportunity to take advantage of this maximum rate. But what do you think in the future could be that thing in rural or agriculture, or the area in which it will be implemented further? We have heard these applications now, but what else could be the place where this measure could actually be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U144	I guess this long-up topic, support for the bee family, is now covered. I would say that time has shown that there are sometimes crisis situations in one sector or another. It is recalled that the crisis in pig farming when it was granted de minimis aid and the vegetable sector in the same way. It is the case that in order to tell which area exactly regular annual assistance should be given, I am not ready. There are certainly many proposals, but the readiness must be that, if a critical situation arises in one area or another, it is possible to look for ways to recover the sector. We must have that readiness.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U145	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for the co-rapporteur. Now is a great opportunity to open negotiations. It is true that representatives of the political groups will be able to participate in the negotiations. The desire to participate in the negotiations has also not been demonstrated. So we will not continue the negotiations. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 124. There are no other proposals. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 5 March at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U146	The fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on liquid fuel supply initiated by the Government of the Republic. Rapporteur, Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to present to you the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel, which transposes the amendments to Directive 2009/119/EC. The directive deals with minimum stocks of petroleum products and crude oil. In Estonia, fuel supply is guaranteed at a level that can be managed for at least 90 days. Half of this stock is in Estonia, the other half is in Sweden, Denmark and Finland. This draft law deals with minor changes in the calculation principles for the quantity of stocks. The Member State must ensure that collections of stocks are kept at a constant level in order to ensure a three-month national consumption. However, average consumption statistics are with reference, i.e. the latest consumption data are not always available. According to the current law, the liquid fuel reserve can only be calculated on the basis of previous year's consumption statistics during the first three months of the current year. This period shall be extended to six months if the amendment enters into force. Secondly, Regulation EC/199/2008 has been amended together with the Directive. In this context, reference to the definition of oil products and the methodology for collecting stocks will change. It does not bring any changes in substance in Estonia. The amendments to the Directive have no significant impact on stockholding in Estonia. Estonia's consumption statistics are available at a relatively early stage, so Estonia can calculate the quantity of stocks from previous year's consumption volumes at an early stage. Thank you for your attention and please support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U148	Thank you, Minister. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask Kai Rimmel, co-rapporteur, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Economic Commission on 10 February, the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel reserves initiated by the Government of the Republic was discussed 133. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, and Rein Vaks, Director of Energy Markets, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications were also invited. The draft law amending the LPG Act aims to transpose into national law the implementing Directive 2018/1581 amending Council Directive 2009/119/EC as regards the methodology for calculating stockholding obligations. According to the current law, the amount of the required margin could be calculated in the first three months of the current year on the basis of data on fuel consumption in the previous year. If a legislative amendment enters into force, the possibility of using these data will be extended to six months. Technical amendments concerning this Regulation are also foreseen. There was a need for them, but they do not fundamentally change anything more for Estonia in this draft. Sven Sester once again asked to clarify whether the stocks should not only be calculated on a three-month basis, but whether the State should also hold these three-month stocks. Yes, in addition to this change in the calculation methodology that can be done on the basis of the six months of the previous year, the State still has to maintain and maintain a reserve of three months. Sven Sester once again wished to clarify whether the margin would remain the same, and this was confirmed. It was a question of stockholding. Have the reserves that Estonia needs to maintain been held in Estonia or somewhere else, and what are the plans for the future? As of today's or rather the turn of the year, almost half of the stocks in Estonia, i.e. motor gasoline, diesel fuel, aviation kerosene and heavy fuel oil combined. The remaining quantities were divided between the neighbouring countries. Each fuel seller must pay a certain fee to the Estonian Liquid Fuel Supply Agency, i.e. the insurance fee, which is the more expensive the fuel storage service is. The cost of storing fuel must therefore be taken into account, and it is economically reasonable to keep some of the supplies outside the country. We learned the exact volume of supplies in later contacts with the Ministry. At the turn of the year, we had 255400 tonnes of fuel, 49% of supplies were in Estonia, 35.7% in Sweden and 15.3% in Finland. When we talk about the stocks held in Sweden, in Sweden, aviation fuel is in full. 100% of heavy fuel oil is stored in Estonia, with 72% of motor gasoline in Estonia and 43% of diesel fuel in Estonia. Today, Estonia is moving in the direction of increasing the number of deposits in Estonia. It was also a question of what is the deadline for these stocks to be replaced. It was explained that since we are holding fossil fuel and its life-time could be seven to ten years, the time of replacement and rotation could be seven to ten years. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 19 February (the decision was consensual) and to propose that the first reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U150	Thank you. Any questions for the co-rapporteur? There are no questions. Thanks again! We can open negotiations, once again the representatives of the political groups can speak. There is no wish for negotiations, so we have on the table a proposal from the commission to finish the first reading of draft 133. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 5 March at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U151	We will take the next, fifth item, at the last session of today's session: the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law amending the Law on Public Prosecutors' Office. Minister of Justice Raivo Aegis, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U152	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of Justice has prepared and the Government of the Republic has also approved the draft law amending the Law on the Courts Act and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. The draft amends the Law of the Courts and the Law of the Prosecutor's Office precisely to give legal status to the Estonian prosecutors working in the European Public Prosecutor's Office and to provide for the scope of application of the law to these prosecutors. A few words from the background of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I will try to give it a few words to those who have not yet received enough information about it. In 2017, the European Public Prosecutor's Office was established. In particular, the European Public Prosecutor's Office conducts pre-trial proceedings for crimes affecting the financial interests of the European Union and brings charges before a court of a Member State. The aim in this way is to ensure the independence of criminal proceedings from the official and political interests of the Member States. By its nature, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is a pan-European public prosecutor's office whose role and tasks in criminal proceedings are similar to those of national prosecutors' offices. (Instead of this long name, I will use the abbreviation "EPPO," meaning the European Public Prosecutor's Office.) Today 22 Member States have joined the EPCO. Hungary, Sweden, Poland, Ireland and Denmark do not participate in EPCO. By its nature, EPCO has a decentralised structure, consisting of a central level based in Luxembourg and a local level located in a participating Member State. The central level shall be composed of the European Prosecutor General and European Prosecutors. European prosecutors shall be recruited on the basis of a competitive procedure by selecting between prosecutors from different Member States, one from each Member State. The European Public Prosecutors shall form a college, adopt strategic decisions concerning the EPPO and instruct prosecutors from their Member State in specific criminal matters. At local level, the European Public Prosecutors' Prosecutors form the European Public Prosecutor's Office. At least two delegates from each country shall be appointed. Delegate prosecutors run criminal proceedings in their Member State and prosecute before a national court. For example, the EPCO investigates fraud involving European Union subsidies, complex cross-border VAT fraud, corruption offences affecting the EU budget, etc. The European Police Office (Europol) is responsible for the damage of more than EUR 10000. In the case of VAT fraud, EPCO is in charge of serious cross-border cases which cause losses of more than EUR 10 million. If you look at Estonia, 24 criminal proceedings have been opened in the last four years, which would in the future be subject to EPCO. The damage caused by these crimes, including trials, amounts to EUR 5 million. Estonia's practice confirms that the more attention paid to these crimes in procedural terms, the greater the number of cases pending, which may mean that the number of such criminal proceedings may increase in the foreseeable future if EPCO is implemented. Last autumn, the Romanian woman Laura Kövesi was appointed the European Prosecutor General. The procedure for the selection of European public prosecutors is in the final stages. They must start work presumably before the summer of this year, as a number of rules and activities need to be prepared before the full implementation of the EPCO. Delegate prosecutors who start work on the ground in a Member State shall be appointed after the European Public Prosecutors have taken office. I'll come back to bill 134. It aims to create an opportunity in the Law on the Courts to allow judges to apply for the post of European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutor. At the same time, the powers of the judge and the relationship of service shall be suspended when he takes up his duties as Judge or equivalent to that of an international judicial institution. Amendments to the Law on Public Prosecutors shall give definitions to the European Public Prosecutor and to the Prosecutor. The European Public Prosecutor is not a member of the Estonian Public Prosecutor's Office; he will work in Luxembourg and be directly subject to EPCO. The European Delegated Prosecutor will be employed in the Public Prosecutor's Office, i.e. he or she shall be established in Estonia, but in EPPO matters he or she shall be subject to EPPO. This means that the Prosecutor is independent of the Estonian Public Prosecutor's Office in the performance of his/her duties under the EPCO Regulation. In itself, the European Delegated Prosecutor can also work under two hats, part-time under EPPO and work for EPPO, and if this does not provide an adequate workload, he can also perform his duties in the Estonian Public Prosecutor's Office. At the same time, we have assessed at national level that this approach is not very rational; rather, it makes the system awkward and difficult to calculate work, including pay. The draft stipulates that the European Delegated Prosecutor shall not be subject to the supervisory functions of the Ministry of Justice in the performance of the tasks of the EPPO. These amendments regulate the differences in the disciplinary procedure of the European Delegated Prosecutor, regulate the legal consequences of moving to the EPPO and returning to the EPPO. Where a European Prosecutor is appointed as the European Chief Prosecutor, the relationship with the prosecutor's office shall cease; if he is appointed as the European Prosecutor, the employment relationship shall cease. The prosecutor working in the EPPO must notify the Prosecutor General of the State in writing for one month of his return to the National Prosecutor's Office. If the prosecutor does not have the opportunity to return to the current post from which he went to work for EPCO, the Prosecutor General may also assign him to a lower post with the consent of the prosecutor. In such a case, he shall be kept for a period of six months at a former national senior position. The amendments to the law provide that the period of service at EPCO is to be included in the current period of service of the prosecutor. Although the European Public Prosecutor's Office will be operational only in November this year, legislative changes are urgent, as both the European Public Prosecutors and the European Prosecutors will have to start work earlier in order to complete their preparatory work by autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U153	Thank you, dear waitress. Questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U154	Good manager! Good waitress! All these finests are, I think, adequate. But open up a little background for us. Hungary and Poland are not parties to this game; Britain is no longer about us. But Denmark and what else was there? - Ireland and Sweden, too. What are these problems? Are they the same, for example in Poland, Hungary and Sweden in this case, or are they different? On the one hand, combating fraud and fraud should be a common concern for all. But why aren't these three united?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U155	Thank you for your question. I guess these reasons are different. For example, in the Danish referendum, they have decided that they will not participate in other institutions such as Europol. Some countries have expressed doubts about the effectiveness and necessity of EPCO's work. So it has actually been the internal decision of the Member States whether or not to join EPPO. In time, Estonia made a very clear decision that we consider it objective and necessary to join the EPCO. But yes, exactly what these national procedures and incentives have been, I really do owe the answer to that at the moment. But I can have it found out, and we'll send you this request in writing. Surely our attachés in Brussels are able to retrieve this information from their partners, which in one case or another was the incentive why they decided not to join.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U156	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U157	Good manager! Good waitress! Let's get on with it a little bit. You said that there are currently 5 million possible damages in these 24 criminal cases. Is it about Estonia, or is it about the whole volume, all over Europe, with all these fraud, carousel fraud and all that? Let me get this straight. It's really Estonian, or what kind of volume is it all over Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U158	Thank you for your question. Indeed, it is the criminal proceedings initiated in Estonia, which, by their very nature, would in the future fall under the EPCO procedure, that are dealt with back over the last four years, purely in Estonia. But, as I also said, life has shown that, if more attention is paid to a problem or a subject, to intensify action in this area, the likelihood that the number of these cases will increase, similar criminal proceedings will be opened and similar crimes will be exposed is quite high. So in the future, this burden may increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U159	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I would like to ask Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Courts Act and the Prosecutor's Office Act was at first reading in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 10 February. The draft initiated by the Government of the Republic was presented by Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg, as is the case here today. As already mentioned above, Estonia joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office, or EPPO, in 2017. I repeat that the European Union's financial interests are governed by the European Union's criminal offences, which have caused damage to the budget of the European Union to more than EUR 10000, as well as fraud related to European Union subsidies, as well as the limit of 10000, as well as the major cross-border VAT fraud, which is called carousel fraud. In these cases, too, where the damage exceeds EUR 10 million, EPPO intervenes. The future division of labour was well explained by the Minister in the Commission. Each Member State shall act at central level, i.e. Luxembourg, one European Public Prosecutor and at local level in each Member State, at least two European Prosecutors. In total, three prosecutors from Estonia will be involved in the work of EPPO. The two prosecutors are expected to be part-time and are at the same time members of the Estonian prosecutor's office. This gives the authority of the national prosecutor. This means that while a European Delegated Prosecutor, this person may, in addition, partially perform the functions of a national prosecutor. According to the Ministry of Justice, it is somewhat difficult to organise the work of European Delegated Prosecutors with part of the burden in practice. That is why it is necessary to apply the law to Estonian prosecutors working in EPPO, i.e. to specify more specifically the legal status of Estonian prosecutors working on two fronts. In addition, the law on courts is amended for the simple reason that the judge can also apply for the post of European Prosecutor and European Delegated Prosecutor. The draft also called for a debate in the Commission. Members of the Commission asked whether, in order to save costs, the prosecutors could work remotely. We learned from the Minister's reply that prosecutors have the freedom of choice where they wish to be present in the performance of EPPO's duties. From the point of view of the EPPO, the European Delegated Prosecutor is involved in teleworking. The European Delegated Prosecutors are at the same time members of the national prosecutor's office, so they must have official premises and means of communication in Estonia. The Minister was asked to clarify the budget estimates submitted by the prosecutor's office. In particular, the draft sets out the annual cost of a public prosecutor's job at EUR 1800.2500. For one Member of the Commission, it seemed unrealisticly cheap. It also examined how the economic costs of the European Delegated Prosecutors are compared between different Member States, as the number of cases to be dealt with is expected to vary considerably. Raivo Aeg agreed that it was certainly different cases from country to country, but economic calculations were made with a vision to understand whether the European Delegated Prosecutors would be in full load or whether they would still be dealing with national matters at the same time. At the moment, the assessment was that the European Delegated Prosecutors are in full load, but this can only be stated with certainty when the European Public Prosecutor's Office becomes operational. The annual cost of the public prosecutor's work is likely to be higher at the beginning than the amount mentioned above, as the European Public Prosecutor's Office is still in the process of starting its work and the costs will be reduced later, as the state already has premises for European prosecutors and the expected costs are mainly the communication costs that the state has to cover. That's what the Minister explained. The European Delegated Prosecutor's salary and travel expenses shall be covered by the budget of the EPPO. The Commission's members also heard, in response to their specific questions, that one of the theoretical concerns about the European Public Prosecutor's Office is whether there may be a hierarchy confusion at national level between the European Delegated Prosecutor and the national prosecutor, i.e. which prosecutor considers the police as a priority, for example. Eurojust, which is known to be the European Judicial Network, also sees the European Public Prosecutor's Office as a competing institution and, in the coming years, is expected to establish close positions, as Mr Aeg explained. It was also requested to clarify the coverage of the salary costs of prosecutors in situations where the European Delegated Prosecutor only performs internal tasks, because, although there must always be a willingness to perform the tasks of the EPPO, there may be no cases at European Union level. In this regard, the Minister said that if the European Delegated Prosecutor performs domestic tasks, the Estonian State will pay him a fee for it and, if the European Delegated Prosecutor performs the tasks of the EPPO, the EPPO will pay a fee for it. The Minister added that the division of work of the European Delegated Prosecutor has been solved relatively freely at the moment, perhaps not well organised, but time will be discussed here. There was also a question about the role of the Estonian national prosecution in the pre-trial procedure of crimes affecting the financial interests of the European Union, the one under whom the pre-trial procedure for a particular crime is still under. Procedural jurisdiction is determined by the characteristics of the crime, explained by the Minister. The Minister provided information on the candidates for the European Public Prosecutor's Office as well as the Office of Prosecutors and on the start of the actual functioning of the EPPO. The European Commission has promised that work will start at the end of this year. The Commission took procedural decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 19 February, i.e. today (all agreed), to propose the completion of the first reading (consensually), to appoint Urve Tiidus as rapporteur (consensus decision) and to propose a deadline of 5 March (also consensually). Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-19_U161	Thank you. There don't seem to be any questions for the co-rapporteur. Thanks again! Is there a desire to negotiate? The representatives of the political groups can speak. There is no wish for negotiation. We therefore have one proposal, the proposal of the lead committee, to conclude the first reading of draft 134. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 5 March at 4 p.m. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 15.49 p.m.
