ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good ministers! Let's start our Wednesday briefing. Checking for presence first. 17 members of the Riigikogu are present, 84 are absent. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of the Interior Mart Helme and Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas. And, as usual, first of all, the question can be asked by registered questioners, they get the opportunity to ask an additional question, and there may be one more question in the hall. There are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U2	First, ask Kaja Kallas. Reply to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U3	Prime Minister! I hope you are in good health and, in any case, thank you for answering our questions here today. One issue that has also been addressed in the press is that the government is drawing up a strategy for exiting the crisis. I would like to know whether this strategy is based on the conclusion of an emergency situation on 1 May and the administration of the crisis in the form of normal governance. And secondly, does this strategy give the public an overview of when the constraints imposed by emergency situations that burden our economy and people's rights and freedoms will begin to decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your interest in my health! I wish you good health, too, be safe! Now, I don't see a chance at all for us to do such an exit strategy, well, I don't know, sometimes the word'manual' can be used, that we say today what happens next week, what happens next week and what happens next week. It is true that such a document will be drawn up. But if you ask whether the strategy foresees that the emergency situation will end on 1 May, my sense is that the government wants to end the emergency situation as soon as possible. However, I do not see any possibility that such a document will say today, if we have 8 April, that we will end the emergency situation either before 1 May, 1 May or, I do not know, we will prolong it. We still have to rely on current statistics and the statistics are difficult and very difficult for Estonia as of this morning. We must be guided by what the scientific council at the government committee says. Yesterday, Professor Irja Lutsar made a presentation in which he said that we were at the stage of the growth of this disease. The situation has not stabilised, not to mention that the indicators are falling. He gave an example yesterday that when you look at Austria, where the figures went up before, they go down. Estonia has not yet reached this path. This morning, there's an account about the COVID-19. If we're talking about the number of infected people, it's gonna grow. Hospitalization has also increased. True, the number of people in intensive care has remained quite the same in recent days, even in a small decline. More people have been written out of the hospital. Unfortunately, however, we have to say that Estonia sees more deaths in statistics every morning. A deep and deep sympathy for the loved ones of these people, their families. So, unfortunately, I cannot tell you in any way here in the Riigikogu today that this strategy could today foresee that on 1 May we will emerge from an emergency situation. We need to look at the percentage of people affected, whether it is increasing or decreasing. We need to see what the percentage of hospitalizations is. We need to look at the percentage of people in need of intensive care. And we certainly need to look at what the countries around us, our European Union, are doing in terms of the economy. Today, however, we cannot say that we are actually getting out of the crisis. Unfortunately, it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U5	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U6	Thank you. This strategy is certainly important. It gives people a sense of what's going to happen. So far, there is a great deal of uncertainty about this situation for both businesses and residents. Now, we have been working here for a few days on the laws and supplementary budgets relating to the additional budget of the country. It's all very, very much. We have heard ministers and other officials say that this has been discussed for a long time. But Parliament is not involved in these debates; we are hearing about these things for the first time now. Consequently, I ask: is it planned to involve Parliament, including the opposition, in the drafting of this strategy, so that there is no situation that we have to deal with decisions here within a few hours, which have a very large impact? And if it's planned to involve, what format? How can we contribute?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U7	Thank you. Yes, the pace that Riigikogu, Riigikogu committees, members of the Riigikogu and fractions first thank you very much! It is, of course, extraordinary. You can't compare it to a normal pace. That's right. Today we are in a situation where, as the leaders of many countries say, even the leaders of large countries, we are in the worst position, both in Europe and in the rest of the world, since World War II. It is clear that this pandemic, the corona virus, is unknown to doctors and virologists, no society knows how it behaves, whether we can overcome this outbreak, or whether the virus stays in society and appears in certain cycles. For me, of course, it is very important that the Riigikogu is not only involved but also participates. And that means both the opposition and the coalition. How can we do that? In answer to your question, I think that the right thing to do is to do video conferences with groups, for example, where I can answer your questions and listen to your opinions on the exit strategy. I am also prepared to discuss this with the committees to get input from all of you. I think that's the way it should be. The political groups and I am certainly open for these consultations. But I will say once again, to do today, on 8 April, some very large concrete document on how we are going out of the crisis, this is not the right moment. Unfortunately, it is. Yeah, it's prepped, prep's underway, but today, to say there are some specific dates, when, I don't know, the movies go off, when schools go off, when shopping malls go off, can't get it. The main table still contains what I read to you: how many positive tests are added, what hospitalization and intensive care are done, how many people have recovered, how many people have left their lives because of the COVID-19 and how our medical sector can survive. That's what I think is important. But in any case, I'm ready to talk to you every day about how the exit could happen, what these inputs are supposed to be. But once again, unfortunately, this document is now together, so we are driving, we cannot yet tell society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! This crisis certainly has two faces. The one and main thing that we have prioritised is the health of people and how to cope with it, so that our people remain healthy. The second concerns the economy. If, at the moment, it may not be possible to put it on the A4 table and say how we are coming out of the crisis, then surely this action, which is being carried out during the crisis, will also reflect how we can ultimately emerge from the crisis. And one topic that has been particularly heated in recent days is the use of migrant labour in agriculture. When we asked here in the Riigikogu about this, Martin Helme made it clear that he would not shed tears for them. He does not shed tears about Estonian farmers who need this workforce, and he calls them woodsmen and herbs. This is extremely unpleasant, especially in times of crisis, where people do not know what the future will bring. We also proposed that, in fact, the existing workers who already exist in Estonia, from across the whole sector, to my knowledge, a little over 3,000 people in April will be able to continue working on work permits. This authorisation could be extended until the end of the agricultural seasonal work, i.e. 30 September. Whether this proposal will receive support will probably be demonstrated by tomorrow's Commission meeting. But could you open up a little bit of what the government's new proposal is? The Coalition Council sat together yesterday and said that we made a great solution and now you can breathe a little easier: until 31 July, these people can be in Estonia. How exactly does this procedure work and how does it work?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U10	Thank you. I will start at the beginning of your question, which was very strongly linked to the first two questions of Kaja Kallas. As you know, I think it's up in the media, too, that we already have a health professional dead to COVID-19. This is a person who worked at Kuressaare Hospital, a guardian. My deepest condolences. Unfortunately, this shows that this virus, this disease, also takes those on the front line. It is therefore very important to do everything in order for us to follow the rules. If we do not come from them, it is dangerous for me, not specifically for me, but dangerous for every individual, dangerous for families, and extremely dangerous for front line workers. Once again, my deep-deep condolences. In view of how we emerge from this crisis, I would say that we will try it with as little losses as possible when we talk about people's deaths. The goal is also to minimise the number of serious cases that people can recover. We want to get out of it as a strong society, medically speaking, so that we can say at some point that there is a cure in the world, this medicine is now there in Estonia, we are very close to developing a vaccine. I think these are very important exit messages. Now I come to the other part of your question. I think that two weeks ago we were debating the same subject as you: what will happen to these seasonal workers, how Estonia will solve this problem. I remember it very well. So I said we're trying to find solutions. It is no secret that the political approach to this issue is very different. Yesterday, I think we reached a compromise. Seasonal workers who receive a work permit for 19 or 12 months will be extended until the end of July until 31 July. This is supposed to help at present, I am only talking about the agricultural sector, to alleviate the shortage of spring and summer jobs in the middle of the summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U12	Next, Indrek Saar asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! First of all, I want to thank you and congratulate you for the example you set this time in Question Time, wearing a mask and caring about other people in crowded places. But I would like to come to the choices you have made in making budget projects in emergency situations, and I would still ask you once again to explain this. On the one hand, you confirm that you want to go to the aid of businesses and people in this crisis, given that at one point the emergency situation is over. At the same time, the Minister of Finance has repeatedly confirmed that we do not have this problem today, that we cannot get a loan from anywhere, that we can borrow quite a bit to boost the Estonian economy and help the people of Estonia in a critical situation. Praxis experts have calculated that, in the current situation, the suspension of payments of the second pillar of the pension will pay the future pensioners'revenues' then in the meaning of the transferred pension. Their pensions are likely to be lower in the future, and so will the increase. Pension funds have played an increasing role in financing Estonian companies to invest in Estonian entrepreneurship. Why have you made this choice to stop second-pillar pension payments?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U14	Thank you for this opportunity! The Minister of Finance is telling the truth. We really have a chance to take out a loan. When it comes to financial instruments, liquidity instruments, one of which certainly is the use of a loan, this is an option. I remember that when I handed over the extra budget, at the end of the negotiations, I turned to both the Reform Party and the Isamaa, who have been most responsible for government in this century and have done everything to ensure that Estonia has these credit facilities. I added that I would certainly like to thank the Socialists, the EKRE and the Centre Party, who are less, who have also been more in government. Now, the loan is one way. We have drawn from the fact that the loan could be the first to solve the liquidity shortage or problem. I'm sure the reserves could be the last of them. And, in my opinion, this signal was also given to you by the Minister of Finance when you gave an overview of the additional draft budget at first reading. If you come to the second pillar of pension, this is nothing new in Estonian society during the crisis. Estonia also used it more than ten years ago. And what I think is important today is that we can also pay out pensions for today's pensioners, today's elderly people. We see that last year, which was a good year, did not go on with the so-called 20% social tax that goes into pensions. I've had to pay more. And today, we must also be guided by the fact that current pensioners must also receive their pension. And at the beginning of that month, there was a pension increase. The average old-age pension rose by 45 euros, thanks to indexation and exceptional increases. We will certainly do this as a temporary measure. It has also been stated that payments under the second pillar will be suspended for the period 1 July 2020 to 31 August 2021. This is expected to reduce the country's costs by EUR 141 million this year. And we have also said that for those who continue to pay their 2%, the state will compensate 4% afterwards during this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U15	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U16	Prime Minister, you know very well yourself that, when it comes to suspending the payments of the second pillar of pension and raising the budget with it, these are two completely different things when comparing the previous crisis and the current one, as many things are different in the current and previous crisis. But, as I see it, you've been forced to make decisions that you don't think are right because of the choice of your coalition partners. That is why this answer is not convincing enough for me. But I am asking about another contradiction, which I note in the same way in the budget. You are quite generous in one area, and you are quite generous in one area, because it is necessary, in itself, that we also have a decent, modern internet connection in isolated areas, in rural areas, that we must definitely invest in it. Unfortunately, the 15 million you have foreseen in the budget will most likely not significantly improve internet access during this crisis. But this is certainly very important from the point of view of preparing for the next possible concerns, also in order to ensure the possibility of doing your work in a modern way at every point in Estonia. At the same time, you have completely overlooked the concern of the press regarding home delivery, that is, people's ability to keep up to date about what is happening in the world, what is happening during the crisis. And little, at the same time as the Minister of the same field, which is currently mentioned in this point, gives a peaceful permission to increase the cost of returning letters to the home...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U17	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U18	... 36%. Controversial action. Is it so difficult to give more money to the Estonian Post that they do not raise prices during this time of crisis and at the same time get paid? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U19	Thank you. I quite agree with you that the two crises certainly cannot be compared to one. In 2009, the country also made efforts not only to overcome the crisis but also to move to the euro. So the crisis was definitely different, but there are certain lessons to be learned from it. There are indeed lessons that can be used, and there are factors that make us try to resolve this crisis on the basis of the second principle. And this second principle, at least so far, has been that, as a first step, we are prepared to provide the public sector with financial resources, let it be a guarantee, whether it is a revolving loan, whether it is a different grant to the market, money to alleviate the crisis, to alleviate economic difficulties, to alleviate the recession. The current crisis began before our eyes more quickly than it was over ten years ago. Currently, different sectors fall in days and hours, not in weeks or months. Surely this crisis is wider in the sense that it is not just an economic crisis. It started with health care, medical illness, a virus outbreak, and a transfer to the economy. I'm sure it's already going to finance. And now the future is unpredictable, unknowable. We see this not only in the context of Estonia, but in the context of the whole world. Your second question was about different budgetary resources. First of all, thank you for the credit! Yes, the last mile of money is intended only for dispersal, at least that is the government's proposal to the Riigikogu. You're right, it's in the order of 15 million. In general terms, the current situation has taken into account that the additional costs required to cover all households are in the range of in the range of 163 million to 339 million. When it comes to what is real to use, let's say, in the next two years, this has also been debated. It is said that 50 million maximum, and this'maximum' is emphasized very strongly. So if you consider that you can process the budget in the Riigikogu and adopt it by the middle of this month, of course, there is also the role of the President, whether he signs the law or not, then there will be quite a few years left. But the calculation was that this year it will be possible to realise in a good case, and I would stress: in a good case, EUR 15 million. Thank you for the press, thank you for the private media, thank you for the public media. Very good work has been done. We've been trying to support the press. The press called for more advertising because the advertising market has fallen. We have tried to publish more ads: stay at home, wash your hands, avoid close contacts. Well, that's gonna help the press sector a little bit. I'm sorry I'm going over time! Now, the increase in the price of the brand that I think you talked about, Mr. Island, if I understand it correctly, is linked to the decision to reduce Omniva and Eesti Post's minus, simply to ensure their sustainability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U20	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U21	Thank you. Many people, as you said, are under very great pressure, who lose their jobs, who lose their incomes, and that is why this unemployment fund measure is certainly important to help people. My question is that, on Monday, we had the Minister of Finance, Martin Helme, who, from this chair, asked whether the people who are working under a contract of command, who are working under debt, would also receive help from there, replied that the unemployment fund measure would extend to people working under a contract of command or a debt contract. It's come out of the press that I don't think it is. On this point, the Minister of Finance replied that no, there is such a decision in the government. Please confirm here whether the people who are working under the debt treaty, under the management contract, will receive the same assistance from the labour market measure provided for in the supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U22	Thank you. Yeah, I know the argument. The Minister of Finance and I had an exchange of messages this morning. He was, I don't know, all night, but for a very long time last night involved in the meeting of the European finance ministers and this morning we went on with the various meetings of the crisis committee. There is a plan to negotiate it today with the Minister for Social Affairs, who is the chairman of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, and with the Minister for Finance, so that the concept is similar in order to have a similar understanding. And then I guess we'll have to give the public again information about how it is and whether or not different ministers have understood the plan differently. The general principle has been that it is linked to the monthly payment of your income. And, as you know, the unemployment fund is linked to partners, both employers and trade unions. So this meeting is still today, I believe, planned with both the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Finance to get this position straight. And then we'll let you know again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U23	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U24	Next, Jürgen Ligi asks and answers Home Secretary Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U25	Thank you. Mr. Helme, your party's voice is directly and indirectly accused the Reform Party of spreading the corona virus. This has also been done by several members of your party. Many of us have become threats, and I have personally received several threats that I have to take responsibility for spreading coronavir. What do you think of the proposal that you're gonna end this now, you're gonna apologize, you're gonna say it's mean, it's not a party thing, and that's not what you do? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U26	The voice of your party and many members of your party have accused the Reform Party of spreading the corona virus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U27	I'm really sorry, obviously a certain, I can't tell you, because of an age emergency, I didn't hear what the ugly one said. What am I supposed to apologize for?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U28	I'm kind of out of line. If you could bring me a quote that you would tie and some specific names, I could comment. This is more or less the same accusation as maybe some of our party members are accusing another party or some other politician of something relatively vaguely and roundly and in various ways interpretable. I really don't know how to comment on this charge about spreading the corona virus. I can assume by using the deductive method, sherlockholmestically, borrowing from Arthur Conan Doyle that this accusation may have to do with the liberal worldview of the Reform Party, which in some interpretation can be attributed to openness, foreign labour, the uncontrolled movement of strangers and such. I don't know any other way to comment on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U29	Jürgen Ligi, please! Microphone!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U30	Thank you. I was referring to New News. At heading level, text level and image level, reform parties have been accused of spreading the virus. And I have personally received these threats. I asked if you'd excuse me if you'd disprove the charges. Now I have another question. In Estonia, this crisis is particularly associated with one particular event, it is a volleyball competition in Saaremaa. In fact, it should also be associated with the Mull Festival, which was after these matches and where people actually drank and communicated and where the potential for infection was certainly even greater. Whatever, these events had nothing to do with our party, they supported the approval of the Health Board and also the consent of the PPP under your command. I'm not involved with them, but yet I've been threatened by them. In the case of the second question, please tell me if you would, however, apologise for these accusations, and will you also regret what you said about a week and a half before these events took place at a press conference in Stenbock, where you announced on behalf of the government that the corona is a common cold and this is supported by goose fat. Were such public messages before the mass events, which were probably the source of the infection, good thoughts? Were they responsible and would it be nice of your party to accuse its opponents of spreading the corona virus after that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U31	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U32	Well, now I've got a clearer picture. Of course, one of your party members is involved in the volleyball federation, and the volleyball federation brought the volleyball team from Milan when it was already clear in Italy that it was a corona epidemic. This volleyball team went to Saaremaa and we have Saaremaa now quarantined precisely because this volleyball team brought the virus to Saaremaa, where it began to spread very quickly and very aggressively. In this respect, the connection with your party is absolutely undeniable, and I see no reason why I should apologise to it. As far as the fact that I was talking about goose fat is concerned, yes, that is what we normally have in political communication, in the political mediating of propaganda messages. That's what I said very clearly. There was no corona in my childhood, there was a cold. But, of course, in my childhood, there wasn't a diagnostic capacity like this day when it's possible to determine which particular virus or other thing is involved, which gives the disease a name. In my childhood, all these diseases were treated with goose fat, booze, and other traditional popular medicine. There's nothing like what you're trying to incriminate me, like I said there was no such thing, etc. You're just gonna drop half my story and jump to random conclusions, and I have no reason to apologize for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U33	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U34	Yeah, well, whatever's been said, I guess we can analyze it later. What's said is well recorded by the cameras, so there's no point in putting it back. Rather, I think that all people are mistaken and politicians included, and it is possible later to simply admit their mistake. But I'm going to read you some specific quotes from your party's publication, which is selfishly trying to link their political opponents to a thing that political opponents have nothing to do with and cannot have. This construction alone is, in my view, completely unthinkable and completely unacceptable. I'll read the quotes. The title 'Does the Reform Party knowingly contribute to the corona crisis in order to later accuse the government of Estonia's troubles? '. It's a title. Next: 'Is it possible that the Reform Party's tactic to overthrow the current government is consciously contributing to the deepening of the corona crisis? Unfortunately, this cannot be ruled out. 'The next quote: 'It is possible that all three cases are a bad coincidence. At the same time, the actions and statements of reform parties over the past year make it possible to suspect that there is no coincidence. ' I will continue: 'The more Estonia suffers, the more the reform party's arrogances can later beat the drum, how they'made everything different and better' and how under the conditions of their'smart leadership' we would have 'come to the richest five'. 'Jne, et cetera, et cetera. Later, there is talk of a wild animal that has been cornered, and this is why the Reform Party is spreading this disease. My question is simple: are you ashamed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U35	Well, I'm reflecting back: Aren't you ashamed? Aren't you ashamed?! How much information you and the members of your party have received and you are affected or supported by journalists and the press have accused the Estonian Conservative People's Party, me personally and the members of our party of Naziism, though racism, xenophobia, though nationalism, I do not know what yet! Aren't you ashamed? You'll get back what you've sown yourself. He who sowes the wind will reap the storm. I have nothing to apologize for.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U36	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U37	Next, Ivari Padar asks and answers the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U38	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I am very sorry that my question is such a wide-ranging one, but since your party is currently responsible for the agricultural sector in the government, I have found it necessary to ask you. Point 1: It is clear that the comparison between a carpenter and a hermit, even in times of crisis, is in no way dignified. And it would be very good if the Prime Minister would also express his position on this comparison. Point 2: Yes, it is very pleasant that yesterday this decision was made that, at least initially, the migrant workers present here will be applied at least for the transitional period. That's very reasonable. As far as dealing with the crisis is concerned, the Rural Promotion Foundation has been given very high rights and powers. More than 200 million of the crisis packages have been entrusted to the Rural Promotion Foundation, i.e. this trust is high. However, Minister Järvik, who is part of your party, has taken an extraordinary political step by changing the composition of the Council of the Foundation for Rural Promotion. There has always been a part of the Council of the Foundation for Rural Development, but one part has been made up very clearly by representatives of producer organisations. It's been like this for years. Now the representatives of the producer organisations are out of there. I know that representatives of producer organisations have expressed their wish to work again in the Council of the Rural Promotion Foundation. What's your position? If this is the view that producer organisations should not strengthen the Rural Promotion Foundation, why do you not trust them? Should producer organisations be back on the board of the Rural Development Foundation at this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U39	I must admit that I am always very uncomfortable in this briefing, because there are few people who speak with a clear and strong voice, so that my dying ear can literally receive and register what was said, what was asked for. I just got halfway through it, to be honest. I realized that basically our party is being attacked because we are trying to politicise rural areas. That is absolutely not true! This has been the case throughout history in the various councils, whether they relate to agriculture and rural areas or to other areas, as well as political parties. That there are representatives of political parties and political groups, it's been like this all along. To see some sort of politician hijacking in it, well, that is an arbitrary interpretation that the opposition can, of course, afford. I'm sure he's gonna have to blame us for wanting all of you to scrape up your belly and leave nothing to the others. Well, it's actually in our political landscape, in our political system, it just doesn't work out. It just doesn't work out! But if you ask more specifically about our agricultural or rural policy, I dare say that we have reacted very quickly, very strongly and very adequately in the current crisis that has lasted more or less a month. I hope and believe that the opposition parties will not become politically obsessed with the discussion and adoption of the additional budget of the country next week and will contribute quickly and constructively to the adoption of this additional budget. The rural economy, too, will make a very strong contribution to this budget. If we take lower prices for inputs, lower excise duties, if we take KredEx and MES subsidies, if we take other individual support measures, you should agree that this should make it possible to reduce production costs, which means that more money will remain available to make more investments than has been the case so far, there will also be more opportunity to raise wages. This basically gives the agricultural sector, rural as a whole, perhaps even more than the normal situation, in the current crisis situation. And I think farmers understand that very well. Just before I came here, I also received thanks from the farmers for the decision we made yesterday on the Coalition Council, but which, of course, must come to this honorable hall to be confirmed. We are currently extending the employment opportunities for migrant workers working here until the end of July.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U41	These are, in short, the steps that we have taken. But politics, of course, penetrates everywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U42	Time's up. Thank you. Unfortunately, it's not possible to turn the microphones up any more, they're pretty screwed up. In the interests of understanding each other better, I would ask you to speak with a louder voice. Ivar Padar has a very specific question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U43	I'll do my best. I had a very specific question to which I wanted a very specific answer. Obviously, yes, we know that if there is a change of political power, there will be a new coalition, there will also be exchanges in the Councils, as has been done in the Rural Promotion Foundation. However, it has always been a good norm that the members of the Board of the Rural Promotion Foundation, regardless of the flag of the Minister, are also representatives of the organisations involved in agriculture. Is that clear? Now, under the leadership of the EKRE, such an extraordinary over-politicisation was carried out, where not only were politicians replaced but also the representatives of the organisations were removed. In the current situation, the Council of the Rural Development Foundation has a huge responsibility for the use of the crisis package. 200 million and more euros have been allocated. Do you intend to change your political position, strengthen the Council of the Rural Promotion Foundation and return representatives of agricultural organisations to it? I hope you heard what I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U44	Yeah, I heard you. I hope you hear what I'm saying. We have made these decisions in the coalition, and we believe that elections have consequences and are reflected in strengthening political governance where we think it needs to be strengthened. And we believe that the preservation of rural and rural areas, and not only of survival, but of progress, needs stronger political leadership. Because what we see and it is not only about the Rural Promotion Foundation, it actually affects a lot of other professional councils and other structures, is how all these specialized organisations are pulling the blanket on themselves and have lost a big picture. Political leadership must present this big picture, so that such petty tucking of the blanket itself and representing its small privates and its lobby groups and blackmailing the conditions that are more favourable to these lobby groups will disappear. That's the point. If you do not share this position, of course you have the political right not to share that position. But what we see is that everything in Estonia must work from a big picture and from the point of view of the efficiency of the state as a whole, not from the point of view of representing the interests of factions. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U45	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U46	Thank you. Well, if you'd do as you say, it wouldn't be too bad, at least to decide the answer to that question. But examples of real life are, unfortunately, the opposite. It is your party that is one of those who has tried very hard to do things in this crisis that are aimed at implementing your programme, but which does not contribute to resolving the crisis, in some places perhaps even aggravate the crisis. One of these self-inflicted crises, or a potentially self-inflicted crisis, is the same as the one that my colleague Ivari Padar asked about, i.e. the lack of labour in agriculture, which is thriving. I will ask you about one of the very 'interesting' solutions proposed by your party partner, Rural Minister Aller. It was his view that conscripts who are in military training in military service could go as if they did not use that word in the form of forced labor, but the idea remains to cultivate a field with their own units. Let's just say that such a thing has also been seen on the territory of Estonia, that people are being directed to work like this, but I have still thought that such times could be reversed. I am asking you: is this your party's position and the whole government's view that conscripts can be taken as just some sort of lay-out labour resource that can be directed, if necessary, into any fieldwork? Or do you also understand the need for military training and that conscripts are currently in the process of training?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U47	Yes, like a respected vigilante, he starts with some totally unfounded, fictitious accusations about why you don't do it or why you're doing it. What have we not done so, or what have we done? There are usually no examples, but there are accusations. As for the shortage of labour we have created, let me just laugh. Just let me laugh! We have not caused any shortage of labour, nor will we in the future. The shortage of labour is a problem everywhere in the developed world. This morning, on the ERR news, the crops remain in the fields in the United States because the Mexicans, under the conditions of the corona virus, are no longer coming to collect their prey. And you see, I don't know, maybe Mart Helme and EKRE are responsible for this. Of course, our thinker, Trump, is specifically responsible for this. But exactly the same story is happening now in southern Europe, where the crops are already ripened and where they are largely uncollected because there is no labour force, because the borders are closed. EKRE has not closed the border with Romania, Ukraine, any other country. These countries have closed their own borders. People do not move as a result of these decisions, not as a result of EKRE, Mart Helme, Jüri Ratas or Taavi Asa's lies and criminal decisions. If a respected nationalist doesn't understand such basic things, I suggest you go back to history and geography school. Even in eighth grade, these things are explained. In eighth grade, not even in high school. So go to school, see what's going on in today's world, where the borders of countries go, what are the forms of government of countries that belong to organisations! You will gain a much better understanding of what has caused the labour shortages now. And more. The corona crisis has created a situation where demand for agricultural products has already decreased significantly. In Italy, Spain, Portugal, there is no longer so much demand because hotels are closed, catering facilities are closed, people cannot shop as much as they have done so far. This situation is much more complicated when a respected nationalist sees behind his mask. Why don't you take a look at this picture a little bit wider? As far as the use of defence forces is concerned, this is not the position of either the government or the party. This is, let's say, the sense of the Minister for Rural Affairs, which he had in connection with the fact that certain lobby groups raised a huge cry of trouble, as if agriculture in Estonia would end then, let's say, April 20th. Which, of course, won't happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U48	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U49	Next, Hanno Pevkur asks, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U50	Thank you. Prime Minister! It seems that the Minister of the Interior will continue to provide false information and misleading information in this Chamber as well. I will come back to Jürgen Ligi's question, to which the Minister of the Interior has forwarded false information here. On 27 February, a working group chaired by the Ministry of Social Affairs took the general view that it was not considered justified to restrict cultural events and sporting events. On 28 February, the Municipality of Saaremaa requested the view of the Health Board on the organisation of games in Saaremaa. On 1 March, the Health Board replied that it did not consider it necessary to impose restrictions. On 3 March, we asked for checks to be carried out at the airport before the Milan club reached Saaremaa. We received a reply from the PBA that the PBA overestimated the risks and thought that these boys were okay and no further action was needed. On the day of the game, 4 March, the Health Board checked the Kuressaare sports building and allowed the game to take place. But okay. It simply shows that if the Minister of the Interior advises people to go to school, he should actually understand for himself how one thing or another works that he obviously does not understand right now. But I would like to ask you a question about what the Minister of the Interior said on the radio. In his personal infamous radio broadcast, the Minister of the Interior stated: 'Just as damage to Estonia's reputation abroad came from our opposition politicians, so did these rumors and information operations from the arrest of Estonia and the introduction of the curfew class and everything else comes from our opposition politicians. ' And before he made that claim, he said that the sources were all identified. Good Jüri, you have repeatedly condemned the creation and dissemination of misinformation. That is why I specifically ask whether, as Prime Minister, the kapo or anyone else has provided you with an overview in any form, that stories about shutting down Estonia or Tallinn or any such talk come from opposition politicians. If so, please also forward this information to the members of the Riigikogu. If the information provided by the Minister of the Interior is not true, what is your reaction to the dissemination of false information by the Minister of the Interior? Should the Minister of the Interior be responsible, like any other person, for spreading misinformation...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U51	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U52	...for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U53	Thank you. Well, first of all, the date line you brought out, Hanno. Yeah, it's like hindsight, but of course that volleyball match could've been canceled in Saaremaa. But the opinion that this corona came into Estonia the most from Italy, I spoke to the Minister of Social Affairs a few days ago, is not true. There is, in fact, another European country from which it has come more into Estonia, if there is any way to measure it. Now on from the fact that we are giving some kind of misinformation, some false statements, some false information here in Estonia to the foreign media. And then we see that it is nice, that our country is ill-written, that big headlines are written, although we actually know that this is not true. Yes, I have felt it in my work over the last three years and a few months. I can't tell you exactly who the woman or the man who sent these things has been. But it is understandable that if you are asked some very specific, detailed questions abroad, you can expect this information to come from somewhere near us. And when it comes to politicians, it is not a false assumption that someone who wants to undermine today's coalition or tomorrow's coalition will try to plant this information in advance. Now for this radio show. In my opinion, Mart Helme commented that, unlike the opposition, he is not now starting to cause hatred. The Communication Adviser of the Ministry of the Interior stated that the Minister did not want to deal with extraneous matters during the crisis, that at the moment it was more important to my knowledge that he also stressed this, in cooperation with the opposition, to find solutions to alleviate the crisis situation. And I think that is the answer to you, Hanno, that today, also in Estonia, in the grip of this very unknown evil virus, which has spread throughout Europe and the whole world, we must all work together to overcome it. I have said several times that this is a matter of our society; it is not a question of such a model of my society. It's up to you and me, Hanno and Jüri, whether we meet these requirements or not. But I would like to conclude by saying that I think the opposition here in the Riigikogu has done a very good job during this crisis, has been very constructive, has made substantive proposals. I see that all five parties are making an effort. Thank you, Hanno!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U54	Hanno Pevkur, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U55	Thank you, George! It's a diplomatic response from you. The problem is the Minister of the Interior, sitting on your right hand, who is just rattling and lying on the air, and then the information is reproduced everywhere else. All the more so, it is important that objective information reaches people, especially in times of crisis. Indeed, in the form of hindsight, there has been a great deal of information. I also really think that if both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board had said two weeks earlier that all international events, including, for example, the figure-searching MM Juniors, should have been canceled and all the theatres closed, there would not have been either the Saaremaa Mullifestival or the Saaremaa Competition or the World Scouting World Championship or all other events where there really was a great risk that events could have escalated. But that is, unfortunately, hindsight. But it's just that this kind of ex-post blaming is ridiculous. In fact, looking at all this objective media flow, I want to ask you about the use of certain information channels. I think you yourself mentioned that Estonia's media channels have done very well with the transmission of information. True! But it has recently become apparent that the City of Tallinn is using PBK again to disseminate information. As the audience of the Russian-language ETV+ news programme has grown nearly three times in recent years, it seems incomprehensible to me why the city of Tallinn is pushing Russian people into the Kremlin channel with taxpayers' money. As Prime Minister, are you going to do something to stop using PBK to transmit official information and thus push Russian people back into the unobjective media room under the control of the Kremlin? I think it is extremely important that our Russian people increasingly use ETV+ to get the information they need.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U56	Thank you. You're saying the problem is the Minister of the Interior sitting on my right hand. The Minister of the Interior Mart Helme has been working 24 hours a day and 7 days a week to do this with his team, be it the Police and Border Guard Board, be it the Rescue Board, be it the Alarm Centre, to bet there. I will completely reject this ball to you if you say that the problem is the Minister of the Interior at my right hand. No, it's not! I say that Mart Helme has made a very serious effort throughout this crisis with his subordinates so that we can resist and prevent this mad virus. And all members of the government have done so. In addition, the Minister of the Interior is also a member of this government committee, who comes together twice a day, and he has really contributed a great deal. I categorically reject this argument right now. You can't do that, you can't lick it! That, if you're not politically suited to his views, I understand, but so to speak, the problem is in him... I can see today that the Riigikogu is making an effort, but the government is also making an effort. I am not saying about any member of the Riigikogu that he is not making any effort. On the contrary, I see you trying, worrying, doing everything that's up to you. That's point one. Point two is, I totally agree that 'there were' and'retrospective wisdom' cost nothing. What are we looking for now? And if this competition had not been held or there had not been any other event, well, we could hardly say that there is a corona virus or COVID-19 throughout the world, but there is no COVID-19 in Estonia. I'm sure it would have gotten here differently. It's understandable. Now this PBK thing. First of all, I recognise national broadcasting and ETV+. It's very nice that this audience, as you said, has grown three times. I think it's grown even more. It's really nice that it's grown. Now I understand what the real question is: why is PBK, I don't know, Tallinn ads. If you are looking well, the State Chancellery has also ordered an ad to give people information: 'Stay at home! ', 'Mash your hand! ' ', 'Avoid contacts! '. How is that still possible? Well, you can see in the press that some experts are throwing it at us. I'll be honest with you, if we're gonna be able to save even one person's life with this kind of commercial, even in PBK, or even a little bit to prevent the virus from spreading, it's gone to the right place. It's temporary, it's a very limited time. And I think it is right to inform the people of Estonia now in all channels. But in front of ETV+, the hat is off, really doing a good job.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U57	Thank you. Next thing I know, Jürgen's gonna ask Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U58	Thank you. Mr. Ratas, the question is that if you create more blackmail channels, the information will not improve, it will deteriorate. And it cannot be said that we will save even one person, because probably those who have been cut off from the Estonian channels because of the existence of this PBK are less well informed as a result. But I disagree with Hanno Pevkur, who says that your answers are diplomatic. You are, however, primarily justifying ugliness, for which there are specific questions. And what is it now that if you are asked unpleasant questions abroad, there must be a reason for opposition? Well, you didn't say 'opposition', said that information was 'here somewhere'. That it's not the things that make you ask, it's the information that's been planted. You don't believe in the press. And there were other phrases. But you heard side by side how your Minister of the Interior answered the question about the non-journalism campaign on the Reform Party. Tell me if your answers show that you are very pleased with the way in which the korona issue is pushed into partyhood and pointed to the opposition party, is said in a name that distributes the corona, and it has been overturned by the facts. You, yourself, have rejected the Italian connection a little bit. There were other events, the Mull Festival and so on. They're all left out, they're only talking about volleyball, because here we can find a party connection. Are you satisfied with the fact that when you answer the charges, you're not gonna say, "Hey, let's end the charges like this"? Were those the good answers the Minister of the Interior gave?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U59	I tried to say that in response to Mr Pevkur, and I also say to you that I understand that there must be a political debate in this Chamber. They must be represented by different world views and different opinions, who praises, who leans. But in the case of the corona virus, say it's the fault, I don't know, one party or another party or a third party, well, that's not gonna get us anywhere. None of the guilty people are helping here. I can also repeat to you that, as a hindsight, we know that we should have closed even more quickly, even more to impose restrictions. I myself was in the midst of these events and was also Minister of the Interior and Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. There were very many opinions that there is no need to impose an emergency situation at all, that we are not such a country. I remember when I came to this Riigikogu on Thursday morning, before the honourable Riigikogu, I said we had an emergency. There was also a very serious debate this morning about how we will deal with this situation. Yes, it is true, as I said to Mr. Pevkur: if it hadn't been for this volleyball competition, there would have been something else. And really now we know that Italy may not have been the most vulnerable, there have been other countries where this threat has been even greater. But to measure exactly where this virus has reached the most in Estonia, it is still extremely difficult to do so. Well, it's possible to identify when a person moved from one place to another, but there's also some travels, and so it just gets crazy. It doesn't really add up. Mr. Ligi, you have a great experience in politics. You have also been in the Riigikogu and government during a number of crises, and you know that the time of crisis is a time when the people of Estonia very sincerely want to save. I think we need to stick together. And today I really feel in front of the Riigikogu that politicians have been able to save very hard. And, as the Minister for the Interior said, I also say: I hope that these legislative proposals, as well as this additional budget, will be dealt with very constructively. Of course, I, too, today ask not only for the support of the coalition, but also for the support of the opposition. I think that these measures are all some very directly and some slightly more indirectly linked to coronavirism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U60	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U61	Next, Jevgeni Ossinovski asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U62	Thank you! I saw the statements made by the Minister of the Interior cause a lot of anxiety here. And I also thought, in the first run, that you should be proposed by the law, that this must be your wish, so that you do not bring more Minister of the Interior here. It is a time of crisis and such ridiculous talk in the hall of the Riigikogu that certainly does not do good for the entire state, and the country becomes ridiculous as a result. But then I thought, in times of crisis, actually, humor was very healing. Also in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, I have noticed that if the general mood is very serious at the moment it is naturally appropriate given the gravity of the crisis, it can be quite good from time to time if you can just laugh from the heart, listening to inadequate talk. And in that sense, I think that the Minister of the Interior could always be in the hall, because the more momentum he gets with his story, the more he can relieve the tensions that people have. And surely people who watch him on television will also enjoy it. But my question concerns bill 170. As you well know, Jüri, I warned you that questions on this subject are coming in to get a more substantive answer. This draft contains, in particular, various legislative amendments relating to the special situation. They are predominantly technical in nature. However, one issue that is extremely important concerns the processing of personal data in emergency situations. Paragraphs 251 and 261 are added to the Emergency Act, which in fact give the government very wide powers to process personal data, including health data. I believe that they have not been written down by any member of the government, that it has really, well, come on a technical level. In these difficult times, it is certainly not time for the government to thoroughly examine all these documents, to think them through. But we have suggested that we take these points out of here so that we do not further restrict people's personal freedoms by law. Would you and the entire government agree to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U63	Thank you, Evgeny! Yeah, it's true we've been through this. And I thank you for being able to prepare a little more of that question. Well, I don't really think you actually thought someone was talking shit. I do not believe that, and I do not think it is worth using such words. Now, what you're saying about Mardi is that she gives answers that sometimes make the mood more fun, that's how it's supposed to be. I also observed that when a person who saw Mart's life, a person with great experience, commented on that answer to Jürgen, Jürgen was fine. The body language understood very well what was meant by this goose fat. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I support it in the same way. I'm doing it the same way, I think it's very right. It is right to increase immunity through popular wisdom. Now that we're talking about bill 170, yes, you're right. I didn't propose to put these paragraphs in here at the government hearing, but of course I'll give you the answer about them. Means that the protection and privacy of a person's private life are certainly values that can be protected by clear rules, transparency and effective control. A legislative amendment is necessary to ensure legal clarity. The emergency regulation exists in the form of an emergency law, but does not provide for all the necessary measures to resolve the emergency situation. In the current emergency situation, it is the duty of the PBGB to verify whether the people diagnosed with the COVID-19 stay at home and to do so requires data on those diagnosed. The PPA does not normally have access to health data; now there is a need for a clear legal basis for such data exchange. First of all, point 1: Data transmission is necessary for the resolution of the emergency situation that led to the announcement of an emergency. If the task can be solved without a search into the national database, this must be done. Point 2: The legal framework for the protection of personal data continues to apply, including the principle of proportionality. In this case, the PBA can only use the data on the diagnosis of COVID-19 necessary to monitor compliance with the restriction on freedom of movement. And point 3: The right of the person to see who used his data and for what purpose remains valid. The supervision and internal control of the Data Protection Inspectorate will continue to function. The data from the data set shall be deleted following an emergency task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U64	Jevgeni Ossinovski, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U65	Thank you. Well, you gave this one example, which has been used in practice so that the police can guarantee the rules of quarantine. This is certainly of public interest and it certainly needs to be done, but just as the Minister of Justice could not explain it here on Monday, no one else outside the policy has been able to explain to me why it requires access to the health information system. The policeman does not need to know whether this person has been specifically diagnosed, has contact or has been isolated for any other reason. The police database just has to get a note that they have to check that this person is complying with the isolation rules. He doesn't have to get access to the health information system. Other reasons for this type of data processing, although theoretically presented, could not be mentioned by the Minister of Justice. In fact, he mentioned two very inadequate points, but it was clear that the Minister of Justice had not written these points himself and was not, in fact, sufficiently informed. Of course, within the framework of this provision, it is possible, in principle, to do things that are practically and actually necessary, but in the wording of this type, as it is now, it is a very, very broad right which the government, in particular, will then be given to the head of emergency and to the officials designated by it. And actually, when we think about the practical situations at which it might be needed, there is only one thing that can be mentioned that concerns the police and can be resolved in a less damaging way than the fundamental right of a person. Now I'm gonna ask you again. Giving this type of very broad rights is, in my view, not proportionate. In addition, it creates a general distrust of what might be done. Is the Government of the Republic willing to consider at least a much more limited approach to these sections, to reach agreement with the Parliament on this matter, or, in fact, to remove these points from the text given to the Riigikogu? Well, considering that, too...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U66	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U67	...the time frame given to Parliament to deal with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U68	You've already asked a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U69	You don't need any more text.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U70	It's actually important...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U71	... to receive quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U72	Overall response, Evgeny: Yes, I'm sure I'm ready. I have no special desire to pursue, I don't know, any medical records that are not related to this COVID-19 in this context, as I have mentioned to you. And I understand that this is not exactly what you are arguing about, but what you are saying is that you can actually tell a policeman that you can see, check whether Jüri, who is most likely to live there, is in quarantine or is not there. I guess we should discuss these sections specifically, or their, say, possibilities in the near future, with the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Social Affairs, and see if this mandate is too broad, as you say. But that is, in any case, with some kind of great ideological goal, well, I understand, Evgeny, that you even realize that this is not the case. I guess that is what comes from within the administration, who sees that this is how supervision can be done best in an emergency situation. But I understand your question, let's go over this. This requires me to consult a little bit more with the different authorities, which I am already doing today. And then I can give you that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U73	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U74	Thank you. I fully agree with the previous questioner that, in any case, urgent drafts currently being dealt with should avoid entering into matters that are not directly related to the crisis. And this point, in fact, may at the worst question the credibility of the entire e-state that we have worked so far. So far, it has been very limited who can access what information, and its excessive expansion is also putting at risk the wider system of citizens' trust. I am also pleased to say that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, when we discussed this issue yesterday, the Commission unanimously supported that this issue should not be included in the current draft cluster. And there was no political dispute between the various political parties, so I also think that the government could support the withdrawal of these points. But my question concerns another matter. First of all, I would like to thank and congratulate the various groups of scientists who have worked very hard to ensure that politicians and, as head of emergency, you have as much information as possible on which to make decisions. The way Estonian scientists have worked is admirable. After all, there are many different models that give a much better picture of the situation. I can't even imagine how dark it would be if those models weren't in the way. Many of these things are also public. I have watched the Estonian curve from day to day in comparison with other countries as well as the curves by county. And one thing that stands out and worries me is the developments of the last few days in Ida-Virumaa. There's this growth curve much uglier than there's ever been in Saaremaa. My question is: what can we do now to prevent large explosions from occurring in Ida-Virumaa? I know the government has thought about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U75	Thank you. So many more that these databases aren't open. In the case of inquiries, there must still be a very clear, legal and proportionate justification, which is linked to in the case of handling of an over-the-counter situation. For example, the Chancellor of Justice and other institutions of the Republic of Estonia continue to monitor this. So that is true, Mr. Clothes, still only during an emergency. However, as I replied to Mr Ossinovski, I am sure that we will be willing to have further discussions on this subject today. In addition, as far as I know, this supervision can and must be carried out by the Data Protection Inspectorate. So there are a lot of Estonian authorities back there. What you said about scientists, I also assure you, I am sincerely grateful that such a scientific council is formed that they are willing to contribute. In front of them, Professor Irja Lutsar is very substantive, very analytical, very well familiar with this field. These meetings have not always taken place face to face, but several times a week, things have been discussed over the telephone. But there are other scientists who are now aching the heart. Now Ida-Viru County. I mean, what are the confirmed cases of disease by county? This morning, April 8, 7:30, the situation was that in Ida-Virumaa, 2 infected people had come in 24 hours. In total, there are 67 infected. The rate of illness per 10000 inhabitants is slightly above 5. The average number of tests per 1 000 inhabitants is 14.22 - clearly low. Clearly not enough! That's what I said to Dr. Popov on the weekend, who agreed that the number of tests should be increased in Ida-Viru County. Today there was a COVID-19 Commission of the Government of the Republic, where four ministers gave an overview of their field. Perhaps the most important thing is that supervision is also proper, especially in terms of internal security. There are ten police brigades outside to tighten bus schedules, both inside and outside cities, so that fewer people are together on the bus. This was highlighted by Taavi Aas, and that is what we supported. We also discussed various social measures, which we will continue to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U76	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U77	Next, Mart Võrguship asks and answers Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Since 27 March, we have been subject to restrictions in shopping centres, and most merchants have had to close their shops. Apparently, it was the only right decision to contain the virus and to preserve public health. I believe it is early to talk about the fact that you are going to significantly ease movement restrictions, but the media can read that shopping centres are in trouble. One of them has already gone to reorganisation, but he, true enough, had problems before the crisis. At the same time, shopping malls say that as long as merchants can take care of themselves, it is probably possible at least to keep the malls alive and most merchants may open their shops sometime. My question is whether you have an overview of how many merchants have approached the country. What problems do they see and what solutions do they expect from the state, and do we have anything to offer them? And does the government already have any forecast when we can get there, either step by step or reopen shops at once, to give them business opportunities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U79	President of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! No doubt the Government of the Republic has been approached, including me. In particular, it is the merchants' associations, not the individual merchants individually, and I think it is reasonable to communicate with representative organisations. The proposals have been different, but I have to say that the latest proposals have become constructive. I think we can discuss them. Undoubtedly, it will take time for such a debate, for sensible and constructive proposals to be screened out. These packages of measures, which are now being adopted, do not reach them, but trade can use the measures already contained in these packages of measures. We will definitely continue the dialogue on further measures. It is quite clear that if there are opportunities that are emerging from the direction of the European Union there are already certain solutions coming up, when they become clear, then we must certainly see how we are going to use them in Estonia and how we are going to apply them somewhere. I think that if we have conditionally divided these packages of measures into two, then there has been the first package and the second is what is now in the Riigikogu. And there's probably another one. Of course, the length of the crisis depends on how many more packages will come, which I am not prepared to predict today. To say when the trade situation is starting to return to normal and it is possible to open shops or to open shops in Saaremaa as a whole is certainly early today. There is no such answer. As the Prime Minister has already said, the relaxation of measures depends very much on a number of factors. There are no such circumstances today. The infection continues to increase. Yes, the number of patients in intensive care is under control, the number of patients in hospital is under control, but this does not mean that the crisis has passed. And, of course, as Minister for Economic Affairs, I am also concerned that, if the situation remains as it is now, that there is no reduction in illness, the crisis will last a long time, then, of course, the economic situation will become increasingly difficult. If we could...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U80	Thank you. Time's up. But Mart Võrguship has another, more specific question, so the minister can still answer him. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U81	Thank you. I would also like to clarify what subsidies or measures merchants are expecting today and what first positions the government has on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U82	Thank you. Yes, I will finish the answer to the previous question first. If we really managed to end this situation on the bulk of 1 May, it would, of course, be much easier for the economy than if the restrictions were to continue for the whole of May. This certainly means thinking about additional measures. What is the main measure and what requests have been made to the Government of the Republic? The initial proposals were all kinds of tax suspensions. Yesterday, there was a proposal to consider partial compensation for rental income, which is already such a proposal that we could discuss in substance. What is the result of this debate, it is too early to say today, because we must also take into account what may be the accompanying proposals from other business organisations. We must also see that proportionality is maintained when we meet a business organisation, and if this proportionality means, by the end of the day, that we reach hundreds of millions with compensation, then we must certainly think about what our chances are.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U83	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, the functioning of trade in itself is very important. We were talking about domestic trade, but yesterday there was interesting news about the opinion that Lithuania is launching a so-called milk war. Are you aware of this and have you been informed that it may happen that the export of certain of our products to any country may start to get caught up in bureaucratic obstacles, but the aim of these bureaucratic barriers is actually to protect their market? How vigilant are you in this regard? And is this Lithuanian message some kind of false alarm or is it serious? If certain goods are held at the border for a long time, their sales value may fall to low or near zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U85	First of all, as far as I know, Lithuania is not the first time to strengthen border control or sanitary control. This has happened before. Basically, I think that, in this situation, for our small economy, the key is that we belong to the European Union, that is to say, the principle of free trade. If we didn't have it today, we could be very deeply faced with problems if the borders are closed and the goods do not move outside. So I think that the greatest guarantee for us is that the principles of the European Union apply and that all countries must respect them. And if there are such temporary failures, I believe that these failures will be resolved exactly as happened on the German-Polish border at one point when the situation got out of control. I myself took part in a meeting of European transport ministers with the help of a TV bridge, and it was very clear that it was dissatisfied with this situation. Another country where there was a problem was, if I am not mistaken, whether Romania or Hungary was now indebted to the answer, but there was another border where there was exactly the same problem at that moment. By the end of the day, these countries changed their border control system. The situation worked out. But it was also very clear that this was resolved because there were common principles in Europe. If they hadn't been there, I don't think these situations would have worked out. I think it is exactly the same thing in Lithuania that the principles apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U86	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U87	Next, Katri Raik asks and answers the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U88	Honourable Chairman! Good minister! I use my middle school teacher's voice. I will join your good and warm words of support yesterday for all internal security agencies and wish all police and border guards, the Rescue Board and the Alert Centre officials working on the front line strength and health. Of course, I wish the same for you personally, with all my heart. But I hope this is the end of Operation Deep State. My question is about helping police officers. The medical surveillance of relief officers in times of crisis is changing. They're going to be given special powers. I very much hope that we will find a compromise that an assistant police officer can only act under the direction of a police officer. The volume of training will also decrease. Am I on the right track to realise that when the emergency situation ends, those relief policemen who miss 100 hours of internship take into account the time they were as a relief police officer during the crisis? Do those auxiliary policemen who are recruited in the meantime have to go through this 100-hour practice? It's a small but very important detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U89	Yes, thank you! First of all, thank you for those warm words, it's quite extraordinary in this hall. As far as the relief police are concerned, we are in an emergency situation and, sometimes, there is a need for a little relaxation. Basically, you're right. These are changes in times of emergency. At the moment, we are making a compromise in essence only in one way: that we are reducing the need for 100 hours of internship, that is to say, we are losing the need for 100 hours of internship. Other training, secondary training remains. And the fact that assistant cops work as partners for professional policemen, as partners, as well as staying. That means that the control, the leadership, is still left to the professional police. We can now bring a parallel with 2007, when we had an institution of auxiliary police officers. Then practically overnight, random people from the street were taken as relief officers, practically without any training. Just to use the help of a professional policeman who, by weight, physically or morally would help to balance the company they had to discipline. We don't have a situation as dramatic as it was in those days and nights. Right now, we've been raising the number of patrols in different counties by 25 to 30%, just in case. All over Estonia this means that we have needed dozens and dozens of police officers and help police officers. We've reorganized police exchanges, we've also found additional resources to pay overtime and double shifts. By the way, the auxiliary police and the Defence League, who are currently involved in border surveillance and patrols, will receive a bonus. They do not simply do so on a'social basis'. All these reorganisations have resulted in us being forced to do some relaxations, but I would like to stress that these relaxations are temporary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U90	Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U91	Thank you for your answer. My previous question was that policemen's basic education and the education of relief officers must go in the same direction. If we are very conservative in providing basic education at the National Defence Academy and rather want to move towards higher education, then we also need to take the education of assistant police officers seriously. I am also asking you to dispel certain doubts or concerns about this, and at this point, people whose motivation for this job is perhaps not the best in the world cannot become auxiliary police officers. This motivation may be that at the moment, being an auxiliary police officer is paid a fee that cannot be paid at normal times. And another concern: perhaps it's easier to get a permit now, because the 100-hour practical exercise is canceled. We must not endanger people ourselves or others. There are now thousands of auxiliary police officers in Estonia. How much help do you predict for the coming weeks? 'Forgotten' is a bad word, but still, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U92	Reports just came from the precincts. To some extent, the number of people who want to be assistant police has increased, but this is not a dramatic leap. It's not in hundreds or thousands. Depending on the county and population density, we're talking about dozens of people, we're not talking about very large numbers. As far as background checks are concerned, there are no concessions here. Background checks are carried out as usual, people have to be eligible to be an assistant police officer. No concessions have been made here. So I'm not worried that we might have some criminal or anti-government element. As far as weapons permits are concerned, we have now simply extended the situation concerning the application for weapons licences and medical certificates. We have proposed to simplify the application for medical certificates. This means that it is not necessary to apply for more than one medical certificate, it is sufficient to have a valid driver's medical certificate or a weapons permit medical certificate or any other medical certificate. There is no need for a person to run for new evidence while the evidence is in force. Some of these small reorganisations are, but nothing in principle. And during the crisis, we do not want to make any fundamental changes either. We want the situation to be as stable as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U93	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U94	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to continue with the law on the assistant police officer. You have already answered in some ways that there are a small number of people who are willing to become an assistant police officer. But the question is specific: how many are really needed? And how do you comment, however, on the relaxation of the requirements currently imposed on auxiliary police officers by this amendment to the law, but on their rights being increased? True, you stressed that this was time-limited. However, the question remains.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U95	Well, the need is such a rubber concept. The need depends on what we are doing. When I took office, we placed an internal defence reserve on the agenda. At the moment, we call this a reserve for crisis. By the way, there's a vigilante who's been popping around, so how come it's not there and it's not going to happen. We'll have 70 men by Midsummer Day, it's moving. The question is what? If we have a situation where we have to carry out some special tasks that require suddenly greater human strength, more action, and so that this does not undermine normal routine, then we need these people. In fact, the institution of an assistant police officer is a very excellent buffer. Here I can again point out that we are not actually making any concessions in terms of quality. And we also have the cadets of the National Defence Academy, they are involved now, and these are people who are studying, who are under discipline, who are under control. We never know at what point we may need a large number of people. Who knew a month ago that we had to quarantine Saaremaa? The quarantine of Saaremaa means that we need additional patrols for Saaremaa, but also for other islands such as Hiiumaa. Normally, we don't need these people. Who knows what kind of situation we might have, I don't know, in x years. Exactly the same may suddenly be necessary to exponentially increase the extra power. And in order for us to have this extra power pool, we now have the development and preparation of a crisis reserve, plus increasing the authority and capacity of the institution of the assistant police officers. By the way, the Prime Minister has given the Ministry of the Interior the task of developing an integrated law and order plan, so that we can have a full picture of what kind of organisations with what kind of manpower, what powers we can use in certain crisis situations. And we're working on it. I can't give you a concrete answer on how much help we need. It depends entirely on the situations in which we may find ourselves at one point.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U96	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U97	Next, Taavi asks in Rõiva and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U98	Good Prime Minister! Today, a thorough story was published in the Estonian Express, analysing the size of the stocks of personal protective equipment before the crisis, and assessing the quantity of these supplies as insufficient. And, of course, you can only agree with that. Of course, in many areas we actually need much larger stocks, there is no doubt about that. But my question does not concern the past, because let us be honest and, objectively, we have unfortunately not been prepared for all the crises as a society. Hopefully we will now just learn and be prepared for a wide range of crises in the future. But I'm asking from one of the moments of time that the Head of the Health Board, Merike Jürilo, has spoken about. There must have been a date on the road to believing in information published in the press, where a report from the Health Board was published or, more specifically, prepared, which predicted that this particular crisis would come in Estonia with very large and very many victims. And this report, which was so scary that it was not intended to be shared with the public, has allegedly been introduced to the members of the government. My question is: were you presented with this report as Prime Minister? Was it also possible in February to make an up-to-date assessment that our personal protective equipment supplies, both in the health sector and in society at large, are not sufficient? And did this report follow any concrete steps?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U99	Thank you. There's been a lot of reports, haven't there? Point one. If you ask me, I don't know, about a specific report, I will certainly tell you whether or not it has been introduced. There have been a wide range of analyses and reports related to all of this coronavir activity. Once the number of patients in intensive care is one, a little bit later, different. This now affects those in need of intensive care. You're talking about personal protection. It is true that this is a complete deficit in Estonia and elsewhere in Europe and in the world. I agree with you that this is the case. Yesterday I communicated with quite a few municipalities of Pärnumaa and some municipalities of Võrumaa, the day before yesterday with the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa. For example, there is still a very large shortage of coats in nursing homes. The situation has improved slightly with regard to different masks and also with regard to gloves. At the same time, different nursing homes said that glove sizes are not suitable for them, they want smaller ones, they do not have gloves. It's all been a continuous process. I would say that, at the beginning of the crisis, we made a decision, as you know, that outside the health and nursing homes sector, the Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab is responsible for obtaining all personal protective equipment. By now, I've expanded it a little, and he's also entitled to information about procurement and stockpiling in hospitals and nursing homes. The information must be in one place together. Thanks to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Estonian Embassy in China and certainly Estonian hospitals, there are others, but I bring out the procurements that have just gone into operation here. The supply of various personal protective equipment has also started to come from China. I would also like to say thank you to Kaimar Karu, our government minister, who has found Estonian producers. Estonian producers have been awarded quite large contracts for production that they have not had to produce in the past. In particular, this applies to the respirators FFP3.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U100	Javier in clothing, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U101	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The period you're talking about is a few weeks after the state of emergency. My question concerned the period about one month before the announcement of the emergency situation. I mean the moment when the Health Board presented to the members of the government a forecast that predicted the additional need for many beds and which Merike Jürilo has said in various interviews that this forecast was so dark that it was decided not to share it with the public in order to avoid panic. But it's known that it's shared with members of the government. My question is: were this forecast drawn up in February, or about a month before the state of emergency was announced, and if it was shown, what were your decisions and steps that followed to see this forecast? Secondly, please simply specify one date. As far as I know, Jaak Aab became head of emergency work more than a week after the state of emergency was declared. Perhaps you can share with the public, which was exactly the date from which Jaak Aab became responsible for these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U102	Yes, Mr. Clothes, I'm sure I can share that date. If you want it now, I'll take another ten minutes to find that date. If you think I have all these dates in my head, I don't really have those dates and times in my head. But I will certainly inform my Facebook page in a separate reply to Riigikogu member Taavi Rõivas when Jaak Aab received this responsibility to ensure the provision of personal protective equipment. I'm sorry I don't know that date by heart. Guilty as charged. Now, the different analyses and reports of the Health Board, how many hospital places we have, how many hospital places we need, how many of these reports have been produced by very many different professors and other different thinkers. I'm sure that's the case with the Health Board. Once again, let me know exactly what kind of analysis or report you are talking about, which was or has not been introduced by the Health Board. You realize that no matter what I say to you, the next time it's good to catch something out of this answer and say that you see, you said he introduced, or you said he didn't introduce. Tell you exactly what the number of the document is, what the title of the document is, and I will immediately inform you whether the numbering and title of the document were introduced to whom they were presented. I'll make it clear to Merike Jürilo who he introduced it to, and you'll know the circle. [[They say something in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U103	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Preparedness for the crisis is also extremely important in terms of food security. The motivation for this question came in fact from the answers of your government member, Mart Helme, to previous questions, where he mentioned that in a very large number of countries the harvest probably remains in the field precisely because it is not possible to bring migrant or temporary workers into the country. Which actually means that in this fight, the countries that will be able to sow all the necessary seed this spring and harvest the harvest in the autumn will get better conditions. Mart Helme said earlier that he had already been called by farmers and said that the decision of yesterday's coalition was excellent. In the morning, I watched Estonian Television and saw doubts. This is precisely because there are no known conditions for whom and how this procedure will apply and how many of these workers can stay here. And second of all, it's forgotten the autumn work, where the massive need for migrant labour is very high during the season. Please tell me what you decided yesterday at the coalition: who can stay in this country and how many people are there? According to my information, there are about 3,500 people who have the opportunity to stay in this country for work and whose work permit ends at the end of April. There are a few hundred involved in agriculture. Please tell me what your decision was how many people out of this potential 350 could stay in the agricultural sector until the date you mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U105	Thank you. See, Mr. Clothes, I found this information earlier than at the end of Question Time, thanks to my good colleagues: 20 March 2020. In the year of the Lord at 18.49 the Government of the Republic of Estonia.ee information channel contains a special message: Jaak Aab was appointed as the head of emergency work in obtaining personal protective equipment outside health care. I hope that pleases you. Stenbock House, March 20, 2020. The time was 18.49. So now I'm not gonna let you know on Facebook, so I got to let you know here. Then don't blame me for promising, but I didn't let you know. But the other thing about Merike Jürilo and this report, I'll let you know. Responding to you, Mr Kruuse: it was indeed a consensual decision yesterday that those people who are fulfilling 12 months or 9 months can stay on seasonal work only in the agricultural sector and until 31 July. You're also asking, I understand, specifically, what is this number, how many people have it for 9 months or 12 months. I ask Mr Arvo Aller to put together the exact numbering of this number and to let you know. Thank you. [[???Kõrvalt öeldakse: 'See on umbes 650 inimest.'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U106	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U107	And if we do so quickly, Annely Akkerman can still put her question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Asa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Estonian tourism, travel and recreation sectors generate 8% of GDP, added value. It's about 2 billion. Given that one euro receives 33 cents in taxes, this sector contributes 660 million annually to tax revenue. While 3000 companies in the classical tourism sector are part of Minister Bear's field, your curating includes aviation and maritime affairs. I'd like to ask you both my questions right now. What needs to be done and what will be done with companies such as the Port of Tallinn, Tallinn Airport, Nordica, Tallink? During the crisis, we saw that both planes and ships have a nation. All countries, including Estonia, sent their ships and planes to bring their countrymen home from abroad in distress. It is now quite clear that the incomes of these companies have stopped for the last month. What is the country planning to do to ensure that Estonian associations remain after this crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U109	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, in the maritime sector, the charging of maritime charges has been abolished, port charges have been refunded to the ship's operator and passenger ship seafarers are also subject to packages similar to those in the neighbouring countries of Latvia and Sweden. In many respects, these measures are similar to those of merchant ships flying the flag of Estonia. In addition, in the case of Tallink, different measures are still at issue, whether credit or, as one option, temporary acquisition of shareholdings. In fact, there are more opportunities and they are all under consideration. In the case of airlines, a decision must be made as to whether the airlines will receive additional capital, an increase in their share capital. Personally, I am in favour of it. In the case of the Port of Tallinn and Tallinn Airport, these measures apply, of course, to Tallink and then to airlines, which the government has already adopted or has sent here to the Riigikogu, i.e. wage compensation measures. But yes, in the aviation sector and shipping, some measures have already arrived here. In the case of aviation, final decisions still need to be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U110	Thank you. I thank all my fellow Members for their questions and also thank the honourable ministers for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U111	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 10th working week session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. There is an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 45 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, 56 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-08_U112	On today's agenda, we have one point: the third reading of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities and the Amendment to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 146 on the draft, and we will go to the final vote. Can we go to the vote? Looks like we can. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting today is closed. Thanks, everybody! See you later! Closure of the sitting at 2.03 p.m.
