ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 13th working week. First of all, members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and questions. There is no desire to pass on drafts and enquiries. Then we'll do a presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Committee on the Environment. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Environment Committee, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As a reminder, the Committee on the Environment launched a draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act last year on 20 November. The first reading of the bill took place in the large hall on 10 December last year. No amendments were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting proposals on 27 December. The Committee on the Environment has decided to propose one amendment to the draft. In preparation for the second reading, the Commission discussed the draft on two occasions: at its meeting on 23 March and 20 April. Officials of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs and advisor of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu took part in the meeting on 23 March, who gave the members of the committee an overview of the discussion in the working group and introduced the need to amend the draft, accompanied by a substantial amendment of the text of § 1 of the draft. At this meeting, the Commission decided to amend the draft and to propose one amendment. At its meeting on 20 April, the Commission took appropriate decisions on the further processing of the draft. Now for the amendment. In the amendment, the sentence "the purpose and manner of use of the environment" is added at the end of the first sentence of § 2 of the Environmental Charges Act, since, in addition to the starting points for the imposition of other environmental charges provided for in § 2 of the Environmental Charges Act, the purpose and way of using the environment may also have an impact on whether and what effect the application of environmental charges would have. The Environmental Charges Act already provides for cases where the legislator has not considered it appropriate to apply environmental charges or has made any distinctions in this regard, for example because it is not possible to reduce or prevent pollution by means of technological measures or because the introduction of pollution into the environment in this form is inevitable and other regulations guarantee the protection of the state of the environment. The wording of § 17 (2) of the Environmental Charges Act is also based on this principle. In addition, the amendment amends the wording of Paragraph 17 (2) of the Environmental Charges Act as follows: 'The pollution premium shall not be applied when substances and compounds referred to in subsection (1) (4) of this section are introduced into water, groundwater or soil for the purpose of growing living organisms, including plants, animals and fungi. 'The aim is to amend the principle of environmental charges for activities which release pollutants into the environment for consumption as nutrients for living organisms. In such cases, substances shall be released into the environment provided that they are used as far as possible by living organisms and that there is no or minimal environmental degradation. The purpose of setting environmental charges is to target companies to reduce environmental damage, including less polluting substances. The environmental degradation is minimal in the context of the release of nutrients to the environment for the production of living organisms, as they are expected to be used as much as possible by living organisms. In addition, in such cases, the determination of the amount and composition of the pollutant is estimated, depending on a number of factors such as environmental conditions, feed characteristics, fish metabolism efficiency and farm water treatment technologies. In conclusion, due to the nature of the activity, the impact of the environmental charge on the behaviour of the undertaking is minimal. Therefore, environmental charges for such activities do not fulfil their purpose and purpose and should therefore be waived and the use of the environment affected in a different way. The Environmental Charges Act applies in conjunction with the specific laws governing paid activities (the Atmosphere Air Protection Act, Water Act, Waste Act, Land Underground Act, etc.). For the activities covered by the proposed amendments, environmental protection measures are regulated by an environmental permit or other means, inter alia, by limiting the use of nutrients, for example by determining the maximum amount of pollutant that can be released into the water for water-tolers, depending on their environmental tolerance. Within the given quantity, the water heater must optimise the use of feed and, by using more environmentally friendly feed, it will be able to feed more fish and, as a result, obtain more quantity of fish. Environmental requirements for aquaculture activities are laid down in the Water Act. For example, § 131 (1) of the Water Act states that water from aquaculture run by mouths must comply with the limit values for contaminants established under the Water Act and with the emissions determined by the Water Permit. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of the same section, the Minister for the Environment shall, by regulation, establish water protection requirements for aquaculture, including limit values for the concentration of contaminants in water from aquaculture and requirements for the management and monitoring of estuaries. According to § 187 (15) of the Water Act, there must be more beans if aquaculture is developed with an increase in production of more than 1 tonne per year. According to § 195 (1) of the Water Act, the holder of a water permit is obliged to submit a water use report to the environmental permit holder once a year. Depending on the activity authorised, the report shall include information on water and aquaculture from aquaculture. The Water Act also provides for sanctions for violations of water protection requirements. Compliance checks are carried out by the Environmental Inspectorate. Since the amendment compared to the original text is significant, the Committee on the Environment decided to submit the draft for second reading to the Riigikogu plenary today and proposes to interrupt the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U4	Thank you, Honorable waitress. You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U5	Good manager! Good chairman of the committee! I looked at Amendment 1: no pollution charge applies when substances and compounds referred to in subsection (1) (4) of this section are introduced into water, groundwater or soil for the cultivation of living organisms, including plants, animals and fungi. Can you tell me what these paragraphs 1 to 4 are? I didn't count it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U6	Thank you. These four things that can be moved there are organic substances, phosphorus compounds, nitrogen compounds, and suspended nitrogen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U7	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, would you like to clarify what this fundamental change was in plain language compared to the original version of this draft? Why did this aborting come after all?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U9	While the original text sought to explicitly define exceptions for water-based producers, the new wording removes nutrient farming from the scope of the Environmental Charges Act. Perhaps it is based on the principle of what is done, not on a specific activity. This also leads to a change in the general principles of environmental charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U10	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U11	Thank you. It says, uh, growing plants, animals and mushrooms, 'including' is in the way. Does this improvement also apply to fish farming?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U12	Yes, good Aivar, this exception applies to fish in the same way. All aquaculture activities go beyond the scope of the Environmental Charges Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U13	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Is it also known what the order of magnitude is, what the amount of pollution charges previously paid because of living things, and how will those entrepreneurs and those who wish to engage in such activities be motivated not to be polluted? Obviously, there's some kind of pollution risk. What are these alternative measures and what are we going to replace, what are these orders of magnitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U15	Thank you. If I remember correctly, the receipts last year were 16,000 in this order of magnitude. This could, of course, have increased in terms of environmental charges, resulting in our aquaculture sector no longer being competitive either on the domestic market or on foreign markets. There are a number of other changes to the bill that are allowed, in addition to fish farming. We do not know that there is any company that would grow mushrooms or other such aquaculture products. However, looking at the development of this sector in the world, it cannot be excluded that these companies will emerge at some point. We are convinced that Estonia still needs to be able to produce the nutrients necessary for its consumption needs, not dependent on imports. In this respect, I think that the simplification of regulation in this case is justified in every way. As far as infringements are concerned, we have more laws than just the Environmental Charges Act and all requirements are imposed by environmental permits. Water marketers must also apply for a specific water permit and set all the limit values to be met by the waste water they release into the environment. The Environmental Inspectorate monitors and they also have the possibility of sanctioning under the Water Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U16	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, He also attended a joint meeting where the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on the Environment once discussed this issue. Indeed, at that moment, the subject of aquaculture was the subject of the debate, and precisely in the light of our competition with the Nordic countries, that was one of the reasons. But you must have been wrong to mention that over the field were the fees of 16,000. This, in my opinion, was about aquaculture; there it could have been quite high because of this change. But what led to this broad-based change? I do not recall that at these meetings, the subject has risen in such a focus. What was the incentive that such a proposal ever came up?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U18	Thank you. The Government of the Republic gave its opinion on this draft, which asked the Riigikogu to examine whether the amendment to the law that was originally planned would also entail the obligation to apply for a state aid permit from the European Union. Initially, the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu took the view that yes, it is regarded as State aid. When discussing with representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the Ministry of the Environment and also the Ministry of Finance, we found that there is really no reason to go to Europe to apply for this permit, because if we pursue this objective, which has been set, that nutrient production will continue in Estonia and that would be feasible as aquaculture, then changing such general principles, this activity will not fall under State aid. If we do not define a specific sector, but consider the principles, it does not constitute State aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U19	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable answer! Did you also gain confidence or knowledge in other countries that have applied similar principles, that this State aid analysis was comparable or the same, given the concern that it might be necessary to apply for a State aid permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U21	Thank you. If we look at neighbouring countries, they have received their exemptions before joining the European Union and no one has come directly to apply for this authorisation. However, this new wording has been analysed by the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and they are of the opinion that in today's wording this amendment does not fall under State aid rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U22	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. One amendment to the draft has been tabled, it has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the lead committee is to interrupt the second reading of draft 109. Second reading aborted. I shall set the deadline of 19 May at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U23	Today's second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the radiation law and state fees law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Heiki Kranich, member of the Environment Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U24	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, at second reading, the draft law amending the radiation law and state fees law, initiated by the Government of the Republic, is 144. At its meeting on 20 April, the Committee on the Environment discussed this. No amendments to the draft had been tabled. In a sense, this is understandable because it is a relatively technical draft. This draft relates to a regulation by the Minister for the Environment, which is necessary for the implementation of this draft. In the meantime, the text of the regulation of the Minister for the Environment has been clarified, which initially caused some concern to the members of the Committee on the Environment, and these concerns are no longer present. The consensus position of the Committee on the Environment is that the second reading should be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U25	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft have been tabled either. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 144. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U26	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of Bill 151 of Amendment to the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, a member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U27	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this draft is to restore the simple and fair income tax system introduced by the 1994 tax reform. We put this bill into procedure at the end of February. In view of the current situation, this could not be attributed to the crisis at the time of the draft, but at the same time reducing the tax burden on labour is also a good measure for mitigating the crisis. For example, when people increase their income as a result of this legislative amendment, they start to consume more and thus boost the economy. The substantive objective of the proposal is to rid you of the characteristics of progressive income tax, the tax-free system that depends on income and to restore a uniform system of income tax. As a result of the legislative amendment, a tax-free rate of EUR 500 per month, or EUR 6000 per year, will apply to everyone in two years. Income in excess of this amount shall be subject to a uniform rate of taxation of 20%. The amendment removes the amendment of the personal income tax system introduced at the end of 2016, which made the tax-free rate dependent on the amount of the taxpayer's annual income. The central element of this change is the so-called tax hump, where the tax-free rate starts to decrease sharply in the income calculation from EUR 1200 onwards and reaches zero at EUR 2100. The maximum tax rate in this income range will rise by more than 31%. This tax system is not suitable for Estonian circumstances. In recent years, people's wages and incomes have increased. In the last few years, an increasing number of people have moved into this tax hump with their income and are therefore taxed higher. Indeed, this year the Ministry of Finance is forecasting real wage growth to stop in the wake of the crisis - an increase of zero per cent - but already next year the Ministry of Finance is forecasting an increase of 2.8% in real wages; nominal wage growth is even higher. Due to the special nature of the calculation of the tax-free income, we have reached the point where, even in the case of ordinary occupations, the rate of tax-free income has been cut, for example, by police workers with a minimum wage of EUR 1345, teachers at general education schools with a minimum wage of EUR 1315, cultural workers who cannot use the tax-free income of EUR 500, as the tax-free income from the income of EUR 1200 starts to decrease sharply. It should be borne in mind, however, that income includes not only wages but also all other income subject to income tax. If income approaches EUR 1760 per month, these people will not even be able to use the tax-free income that was in force in 2016. Last week, the salary records of civil servants were made public. It shows that the average monthly salary of civil servants last year was EUR 1861. Thus, on average, even the tax-free income that existed before the tax system was changed in 2016 could not be used by public officials. Keep going. Let it be said here that working pensioners already have this reference income rate at EUR 1330 because they had previously been granted additional tax-free income, which was abolished when the new tax regime entered into force. The new tax system is embellished with lies. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas declared for a long time in official information channels that 80% of all people in Estonia won tax reform, 86% of all employees were said to have won. Yesterday, we finally received an answer from the Ministry of Finance to the question about the impact of tax changes. Well, we didn't get an answer, but we got something. Research updates have been made and it turns out that not 80% of people are talking, but 60% of people who are said to have won. However, these data are also misleading, because this study does not show us that the study is still ongoing and that 2018 data is being used. We could do a survey already based on 2021 data, based on model analysis. So the distraction continues. It is also noteworthy that the creators of exponentially decreasing tax-free income are not satisfied with this either. Coalition parties have long been discussing how to reform this tax system. The solutions under discussion, as far as they are known, all have major shortcomings. It has indeed been realised today that more and more people have reached a higher tax zone and that the personal income tax burden is increasing. The Government of the Republic, which expressed its position on this draft, also states very clearly that, as the average wage rises and the state budget increases, it is justified to change the tax-free income range. But the government doesn't have a solution. We have a solution. The draft will make taxation of individual income fair and easy again and introduce a uniform tax-free income of EUR 500 per month, regardless of the income earned and the increase in income. Indeed, the removal of the system for calculating excess and income-dependent tax-free income from the tax system is linked to the costs of the state budget. In order to dispel the cost of implementing the amendment to the law, we have planned a two-stage transition. First of all, we will move the tax hump next year to avoid the situation that people with an average income and even lower than average income move into a tax hump with their own income level. According to the draft, in the transitional year, the income of tax humps amounts to EUR 1700.2600 per month. Okay. In summary, from 2022, the tax-free rate of annual income will be abolished and a uniform tax-free income of EUR 6000 per year, or EUR 500 per month, will be introduced for all. Who's gonna win this? Winning people with monthly incomes greater than 1200 euros. Winning people whose income comes from multiple sources, multiple jobs or is due to different forms of employment contract. Who else wins? Working for pensioners, of course. Winning people who get a payoff, a bonus, other one-off fees. People who benefit from one-off, important benefits. We are once again making the tax system simple, understandable and fair. Although the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support this draft, I do assume that there will be support for this draft from this Chamber. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U28	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! In your introduction, you said that the draft would also be very suitable for a crisis measure in order to reduce the tax burden on households. When we were in this Chamber discussing electric excise duty, the reduction of excise duties at all, the Reform Party was very critical and said that it was somehow not suitable for crisis action. Maybe you'll explain. In my opinion, for example, the reduction in electricity excise duty is much more solidarity than this measure. Aren't you a little duplicitous here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U30	It's not two-faced, I'm one-faced. The impact of the fall in electricity excise duties on the price of electricity will be quite small, given that, if I remember correctly, the average electricity billing cost of EUR 30 was probably EUR 10 per year. This effect remains small in comparison with the impact of this draft on average and also lower than average wage recipients. On the contrary, one might ask why the fall in excise duties, when we are talking about tax measures, is better than reducing the tax burden on labour, especially given that the tax burden on labour is also a serious burden on businesses when they come out of the crisis, which they have to bear before the state. If we can provide some relief here by reducing the tax burden on labour, it will help people and help companies to get out of the crisis more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U31	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When this system of million humps was created, one of the goals was to help people with lower incomes to cope better. On the other hand, the daily application showed that the loss of those who received the average salary and not the richest class began to increase. Where would it go if there were no changes to this system at all? It's about teachers, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U33	Thank you for your question. We have already seen that this tax system has reached a dead end. Here I gave an example of police workers with minimum wages, cultural workers with minimum wages, teachers in general education schools, whose wages plus other income have already moved into this tax hump, or crossed this magical 1200 euros. These people, these workers have increased in two years. So this system penalises those who move forward with their incomes, who have increased incomes in recent years, who have reached a higher tax zone, and therefore pay more income tax. But we're not just talking about teachers, policemen, government employees. Take, for example, the doctors who are currently at the forefront of the crisis. The pay of doctors could actually be even higher than they have now, but I'm afraid the pay of doctors is still higher than the 1200, which is the magical limit of this tax system.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U34	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U35	Thank you. Good waitress, you listed nicely who would win with this amendment to the law. In fact, everyone who earns more than 1200 euros a month on average would win. But maybe you'll tell those who hesitate to support this bill to lose the bill. Who would that be bad for?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U36	Thank you. Yeah, well, there's no other way to answer it than that I don't see anyone losing this bill. There are no such groups of beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U37	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! You have written in the draft explanatory memorandum that the planned cost, 120 million, is partly covered by increasing employment, consumption and other revenues. Today you yourself also indicated that this bill was drafted before the crisis. Now the crisis has come. Perhaps, during the crisis, you have had time to reconsider what it is actually being covered for? Increasing employment and consumption are probably no longer quite these.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U39	Thank you for your question. I have also thought of asking the Minister for Finance to cover the cost of excise duty cuts, which, by the way, will amount to 130 million next year, so a little more than that 120 million. Add together fuel excise drop, gas excise drop and electric excise drop: 130 million, which is more than 120 million. Ask the Minister of Finance where it will be covered. But of course we've been thinking. We have also just received an opinion from the National Fiscal Council on last year's state budget. In good times, the budget was both nominally and structurally negative. Why was that? Because the rate of cost increase in good times far exceeded what was set by the rules and by our own objectives. The budget expenditure rate increased, if I am not mistaken (i shall remind you), by 6%, if the growth rate should have been 4%. Look, if we stick together there, we bring the cost of budget growth back to a normal growth path, then there will be considerable savings. So let's look at the public sector a little bit, let's look into the state budget, if we don't have to cut the cost of ministries this year. Yeah, there's been some talk about cuts, but it's been such an empty story so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U40	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U41	Thank you. I hear there are winners because of this bill. Then I'd have a proposal to eliminate income tax in the first place, then everybody would win. In the event that my proposal fails, I have the question: is an efficient and least disruptive tax system a public good, or is it an individual gift from the state to people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U42	Thank you for your question. However, we cannot quite build public finances to replace tax revenues with loan money. The collection of taxes must be in order for the State to be able to cover its costs, but the distribution of the tax burden cannot be such that, compared with other forms of income, for example, labour is still subject to relatively high taxation. The tax burden on labour could be lower, it helps businesses, it helps people and it also helps to promote the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U43	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U44	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I see that the current course of discussion of the bill has not attracted coalition politicians, except one, very much. Perhaps these issues of reducing the tax burden on labour are not of such interest. However, it may also be a product of the benefits for society of a uniform proportionate income tax system compared to graduated or tax-humping systems, apart from a reduction in labour taxes. What does that bring to society?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U45	Thank you for your question. Yes, there are different levels of income, people have different levels of income, jobs have different levels of pay, but the economy and all of us therefore need all the jobs, and even more so, those jobs with greater added value are needed. We take engineers, the IT field, we also take the medical field as an example, which is now important, where slightly higher salaries are, more added value will also be created. These jobs are needed to make our economy more competitive than other countries and we can also do better on the global export markets. These jobs are needed and there is a need for a move towards more skilled work and more skilled jobs. It should not be penalised by a higher tax. But yes, you asked about the debate. It is a good thing that we have a debate here at least now, but the members of the coalition did not ask any questions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the debate was between us, and the sociers also contributed thank you. This debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Nothing came from the members of the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U46	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U47	Thank you. The slingshots are betting today. But, esteemed waitress, you didn't play the ball that Jürgen Ligi put on for nothing, because I think it's the only polite way to defend this proposal. Although I understand that you can't make such smacky sentences that we're giving you cash. But since you didn't play it, I'm asking the question of justice in the same frame you've given me. Which one seems more fair to you, is the tax change that gives the majority of wage earners EUR 60, or is it the tax change that gives the minority of wage earners who are the wealthiest, EUR 100? Which is fairer?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U48	Let's talk about justice, Mr. Ossinovski. I brought [quote] from 2018. A working pensioner writes: 'As a working pensioner, I will give up more than Ossinovski's salary in the coming year. " You wrote on Facebook that you are not sorry that you pay 36 euros more to the country. But a working pensioner who received an average pension and whose salary was more than 1200 euros a month paid more as income tax than you, who boasted about your additional fee of 36 euros. Now that's justice! We are hurting working pensioners with this tax system, which I also mentioned in my report.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U49	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U50	Good manager! Good waitress, excellent bill. But I'm reading from here that there is a rapid increase in wages, and how you said that the number of people whose income is going to increase significantly above the previous one will continue to increase in the future. What is your analysis of how much the number of such people is now increasing after this crisis, who needs to be taxed significantly higher and to whom would your excellent draft help?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U51	Thank you for your question. When we drafted this bill, we did not know that we were going through a severe economic crisis. We are still talking about the fact that, in the last few years, I think you agree with this, wages and incomes have increased rapidly. Last year, it was probably 7% wage growth, even faster in the public sector. So there's already a problem. But indeed, for this year, the Ministry of Finance is forecasting a zero increase in wages and average wages. You asked me what I thought. I think the Ministry of Finance's forecast is even a little optimistic. For the following year, the Ministry of Finance is already forecasting a real wage increase of 2.8%, and a nominal wage increase of even 5%. I think it's optimistic, but it's official, it's an extra budget estimate. This is what we discussed here a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U52	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U53	I appreciate the stand-up, but I still want an answer to my question. It's a weather question, and you have a weather view, so answer it from your weather view. Which is fairer, to give a person earning a minimum wage about 10% of his income with a tax change, i.e. he wins 60 euros, or to give 100 euros to a strong minority earning 2100 euros, for money that is our common currency? Which is fairer?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U54	I wouldn't put them on the line like that. It would be fair to reduce the tax burden on labour. As I said, yes, there are also lower-paid workers, and these jobs are also necessary, but we should not penalise workers in these jobs, too, where greater added value is created. Engineers and teachers will win with this bill, won't they? Not to mention doctors whose salaries could actually be even higher than they are, but they certainly lost it with the 2016 Tax Monument. If the income is more than EUR 1760, which is the reference limit, civil servants who already had a monthly salary of more than EUR 1860 last year, on average, had lost even in comparison with the tax system that was in force in 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U55	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U56	Good manager! Good waitress! I still come to this good bill. But you didn't answer my question. You discussed this growth, etc., but how much will in the future still increase the number of people whose incomes need to be taxed significantly higher than before, and from which sector are they coming from, are they online trade workers or some other kind of company? How many people could there be who need to be taxed significantly higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U57	Thank you. The ability to make forecasts here in the Riigikogu is not very great. The prognosis is still made by professional forecasters and we can rely on the forecasts of professional forecasters. I read about the Ministry of Finance's recent economic forecast, which is the basis for the additional budget, that the average wage growth will stop. With my prognosis, I'd be even a little more pessimistic than the Ministry of Finance. Let's see what they say next year: the real wage will increase by 2.8%, the nominal wage on which the tax accounting is based, as much as 5%. I'd be a little more pessimistic. I fear, based on my understanding and my analysis, that the crisis will hit us harder than the Ministry of Finance's most recent forecast [is written]. But there is nothing to argue about the way in which people's incomes have grown in the past years, that we know, that we see. The average wage increased, so more and more people moved to the limit of their income level, where the tax-free rate starts to decrease sharply, i.e. EUR 1200 per month, and as a result they have a higher tax burden. How many are there? I also asked in the Committee on Monetary Affairs whether the Ministry of Finance had made more recent forecasts. These estimates can be made using aggregated data on individual income tax returns. After all, we currently have aggregated data on the income tax returns for 2018; the income tax returns for 2019 have not even been submitted yet. However, analyses could be carried out on the basis of income and social tax declarations, the so-called TSD declarations. I asked the Ministry of Finance to give me the data. They used to do this kind of analysis. When this tax system was created, a few months later, such an analysis came up, why has it not been done now? For example, on the basis of data from the income and social tax declarations for the first quarter of 2020 we will receive more recent data. Well, it's not done. The answer was the information that the model analysis was to be carried out using the data of Statistics Estonia. But we haven't been shown this forecast yet, I don't think it's ready. But it still talks about the past, using revenue data for 2018, but we are 2020 and last year, 2019, wage growth was quite rapid. When we talk about percentages, once again, so much more we got to know that when the Prime Minister here talked about the whole year, it was in 2017, when this law was approved and prepared for its entry into force, that 80% of all people and 86% of all employees will win the tax reform, it is not, now the updated information is on our table, now it is said about 60%, but this number is also not quite accurate, because it is based on data from two years ago. So you see what pace we're going at. It was said that the winners were 80%, then used, by the way, 2016 or even older data, and they were presented to us as if it were the effect of this tax system. Now we've reached 60% and we're coming down from there, we're about to get to a situation where there's less winners than losers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U58	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is partly driven by the question and justice of a good colleague, Mr Ossinovski. Have I got something wrong? This bill, which we currently have on the table, does not change the important principle that who earns more will also pay more tax, or tax, in the sense that we look at the salary. In this regard, justice is guaranteed by this bill. Secondly, why do you think the coalition is so lukewarm about this draft, when they themselves have tried to say at every opportunity in these so-called crisis measures that people's incomes must be maintained, but here we are talking about us wanting to increase people's incomes in some respects.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U60	Of course, this bill increases people's incomes, but if we look at how it affects different levels of income, then the worst of all are the beneficiaries who move up this magical 1200 euro income with their income. In this income range, each euro earned is taxed at the standard rate of 20% of income tax, but every additional euro earned also means that the tax-free income decreases according to the formula, the additional income in that range also means an automatic reduction in the tax-free income. It is not justified, it should be abolished. But we have, in this draft, as an intermediate phase: the range in which tax-free income starts to shrink sharply is shifting forward. Then we will achieve a situation where there are fewer people in this tax hump. And this intermediate phase is EUR 1700.2600 per month.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U61	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U62	Thanks! Good Aivar! The men with the roots of the crown, as we are, I have a very simple question for you. Give me a very simple answer, please. Does this bill increase or reduce income inequality?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U63	I think this bill is fair. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] It is fair to different levels of income. It does not penalise work at jobs where greater added value is created, but it does not take away anything where less added value is created.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U64	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm very worried about something. In particular, when you answered Peeter Ernits' question about where you came from and about the analysis, you said a very ugly sentence that the members of the Riigikogu have no analytical capacity. You've come here with this bill, and answers sometimes make a laugh in the hall. Why don't you take that bill back because the analysis is, let's say, incomplete?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U66	Thank you. Do not take it back, because we must certainly come back to this issue in the future, even if you are not satisfied with the option that has been proposed. But as far as analytical ability is concerned, I meant that analysis is still carried out by professional analysts. This analytical capacity is in the Ministry of Finance. The Riigikogu does not make economic forecasts, that is what I meant. But as far as we had information, data, so much we could do an impact analysis on this bill. It's the best knowledge we have from the information we have, and from what we know today, it's in this impact analysis. But once again, I meant when I was talking about forecasting capacity, that prognosis, especially economic forecasts, is made by professional analysts. The Riigikogu, whatever we are dealing with here, these budgets or additional budgets or budgetary strategies, are not based on random analyses, but we are still based on forecasts made by professional analysts. When we talk about the country's economic forecasts in terms of budgets and additional budgets, these are forecasts from the Ministry of Finance. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U67	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U68	Thank you, dear waitress. President-in-Office of the Council. You have really talked a lot about impact analyses here and for a long time. I have a very simple question for you. Have you also carried out an impact analysis of how much this bill would affect your income if it went through?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U69	Thank you. We know how much the members of the Riigikogu, the vice-chairmen's salaries, are. If we move back to this situation, as it had been introduced since the 1994 tax reform, when the principle that no revenue will be taxed from the first euro was applied, let's say that if those with zero tax-free income now have a tax-free income of EUR 500 per month, then it would probably be EUR 100 per month.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U70	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I now ask for Mr Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U71	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group at its meeting on 20 April. The draft was presented by Aivar Sõerd as the representative of the initiators. On the side of the Ministry of Finance, Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, commented and answered the questions. As we know, the draft provides for the restoration by 2022 of a tax system with one tax-free minimum, EUR 500 per month, and everyone has one income tax rate. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to send the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 5 May, to appoint a rapporteur for the committee here. The vote supported the completion of the first reading 4 and 7 members of the Commission opposed it. Therefore, this draft was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U72	Thank you. You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have the Estonian Päevaleht with me, and here I read that your Chairman, Helir-Valdor Seeder, has said that the effect of the 500-euro exemption will decrease as the average wage rises and the current system will have to be changed sometime. He has even expressed the opinion that the tax-free minimum will be one of the main topics of the next Riigikogu elections. I ask you what your vision is, how this tax system, which was introduced in 2016, needs to be changed and how far your drafts are.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U74	Thank you, Aivar! I understand you have a different understanding inside your own party, but now you've stepped into the next bucket. After all, we are talking about an income tax exemption of EUR 500, whether the EUR 500 tax exemption, if there is a minimum wage of EUR 584 today, could be accompanied by a minimum wage. We'll talk about it. Our party talks all the time about low-paid people having a tax exemption, but you're just talking about having a tax exemption for the rich in your bill. If you and I had received 100 euros of income tax exemption, then okay, I could have donated another 100 euros, because our party at least [did it] and I hope you all did so by donating your salary increase to someone or transferring it back to public revenue. I think that people with low incomes need to be given incentives. For those with incomes high enough, this does not change whether income tax is EUR 100 more or less.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U75	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U76	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. I understand that the coalition does not support this bill and wants to reject it. In part, it is understandable, but this amendment would generate income for working pensioners whose share of the Estonian labour market is increasing. That's what you admit. Is this argument unacceptable to you too?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U77	Thank you, Urve, for a good question. Of course, but then you could have mentioned it in the draft, it has not been mentioned here, it has been said about the same rate of income tax across the forest and the fields. At present, an employed pensioner has EUR 500 for a EUR 1200 income free of income tax. If anyone earns more, it will be preserved, as is the case with the members of the previous century's Riigikogu, whose pension is above EUR 2 000 and they will pay income tax on it, as is the case with all working people. I don't think that's gonna be a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U78	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U79	Thank you. First of all, I would say that we are talking about the very same thing, it is the same thing, it is about the EUR 500 tax exemption and how to apply it. You are not satisfied with the system that you did in 2016. But you're always here talking about giving gifts to the rich and about the rich winning, and what else did you tell them? Where is the limit, is it 1300 or 1400 euros per month, which is the minimum wage for teachers or the minimum wage for police workers, is that the limit? Where's the limit where this "rich" level starts?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U80	Thank you, Aivar, for the question. This border will be agreed at one point in this Chamber and everything will have to be looked at by how much money it takes out of the state budget. Today we're looking here, as you said, at excise duties, that 130 million is the order of magnitude, it comes at the expense of someone or something. If you ask for my personal opinion, yes, I think that, on the one hand, the lower limit, this 500 euros, should rise, perhaps to what the minimum wage is, and on the other hand, this 1200 euros should rise, looking at the average wage ratio in Estonia. But that doesn't mean that if you get 4,000, 5,000 or 6,000 euros a month, you should have the same conditions as the low-paid. It was also mentioned here that the coalition did not support it, nor did the representative of the Socialists in the Committee on Monetary Affairs support this draft. We can still see that, on the one hand, taxes must be collected to the state to help the weaker, and, on the other hand, that the weaker cannot suffer in any way within the villain of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U81	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U82	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! We were talking a little bit about introducing such a world view and perhaps the resulting disagreements. You said that the principle position of the Fatherland is that low wage earners must be supported. I'm sure he will. But on the other hand, we'll see that the picture of the world isn't dynamic in this case, because there are very strong boundaries drawn in here. Perhaps you will shed light on this picture of the Fatherland world in this case. How should people who are assigned to clusters or, for example, to low-wage earners move towards, say, middle-class incomes that should stimulate it when a clear line in the form of taxation that does not stimulate it? It is like a static attitude that is in no way conducive to people's efforts towards higher incomes. How would you shed light on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U83	Thank you for that question. Let's start at the beginning and finish at the end. First of all, in the 2015 Riigikogu elections, our party promised that 500 euros would be exempt from income tax. Yeah. And no one's arguing that this number should be bigger over time. When you talk about wage growth, when people's wages increase, income tax still amounts to a maximum of 20%, regardless of the person's salary, 80% of the income still remains. So in any case, all people are interested, as far as possible, in earning more income to feed their families and manage their lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U84	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your previous answers, you have said such sentences that only the rich and many earners would benefit from this proposal and lose the recipients of the lower salary. You said that the beneficiaries of the tax must lose (or something like that) the lower wages. Please explain what this proposal is like and how the recipients of lower wages lose something.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U86	Very simply. Today we have certain benefits in different areas and everyone wants to get a higher salary. But he doesn't lose 100% of his salary, he loses 20% of his income tax. At the moment, we want to create a situation where we are trying to support those who should not be supported by the state with the draft Income Tax Act. In the Republic of Estonia, income tax on wages has been agreed at 20%, and then differences have been made as to the conditions under which anyone has a tax concession. No citizen of the Republic of Estonia should pay more than 20% of the income tax. Here is the question, you want 500 euros, regardless of income, to be exempt from income tax, we see that there should not be a tax exemption of 500 euros from a certain limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U87	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U88	Thank you. After all, you yourself have just said that in our system, everyone would pay 20% equally; in your system, in fact, it will be paid between 1200 and 1700 more than 20%. Let me give you a good example. The teacher's salary in Rae County in 2019 and 2020 was EUR 1250 and EUR 1315 respectively, with a minimum income tax free of EUR 472 and EUR 436. In Rae parish, we pay 100 euros to each teacher in addition to the so-called "municipality" fee and 200 euros to the class manager fee. If the teacher does a few more hours, his salary will reach EUR 1850 and in a moment his income tax exemption has fallen to EUR 138, i.e. he has lost a tax exemption of EUR 362. That goes against what you're saying. In addition to paying 20% of its income tax, it has abolished a tax exemption of EUR 362. Why don't you explain whether I misunderstand something or whether our system is more fair and uniform?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U89	Thanks, Mart! I don't know who your math teacher was, but I could use a little more hours. I would like to emphasise once again that 20% of income tax is for everyone, there are differences, there are tax exemptions for a certain amount of salary. That doesn't mean that if you get 2,000 euros or 1700 euros, your income tax is another number than 20%. It's just that you don't have a $500 tax exemption. [[M. Netship speaking from the hall.]] It's not like that. Now, get it straight. The Act of the Republic of Estonia applies the same rate of income tax to everyone. Pensioners also have a tax exemption of EUR 500. It's a simple mathematics, an Excel table. If necessary, we'll teach you a little lesson.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U90	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U91	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, You're the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and you're full of shit right now. I don't know if you've read the bill you're defending here. This draft provides for the same rate of income tax and the same tax exemption for all, in order to put an end to this system, which is currently unfair, for example, for working pensioners, which takes money away from them. Please give a concrete example on the basis of which you claim that, according to this draft, income tax is higher than 20% for some types of income. Where? You argued that the rate of income tax in this draft is higher than 20%.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U92	No, the other way around!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U93	Then please correct your claim.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U94	No, on the contrary, I've always said otherwise. Your colleague claimed that there are differences in income tax. I said that income tax is 20% for everyone in the Republic of Estonia. I've said it on the remote today, I think, more than three times. I understand very clearly that the bill is such that everyone, regardless of income, would be exempt from income tax for EUR 500 on your proposal. Four out of five political parties in this Chamber, I understand, do not support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U95	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Looks like it is. Jürgen Ligi, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us first agree that taxes are not a national gift to the people. Taxes are a means of collecting money for common good in a way that least disturbs the economy and individuals. No one should be harassed too much as an individual. That is the point of the tax system. Here, Evgeni (who I thought the remark was perfectly adequate otherwise) also provided clues that if the majority wins, that is justice. After all, this leads to the lack of protection of minorities at all, on the one hand. Purely, the view is cynical, that a minority can do anything. But all right, if this minority is just a little bit more generous than the others, then in fact, with this sentence, you can justify 10% paying all taxes. We all understand that such a system is not fair, firstly in terms of harassment, and secondly, everyone will be poor because of it, because in this way, the economy and general prosperity will be extinguished. Where do you want to draw the line? I'll be there. So basic: there's no way that wins it and wins the other. This should not be discussed at all in the case of the tax system. The tax system should be seen as a general good and a general instrument. Let us recall this justice, how the great giving was here, how the money was distributed, how it really was given to whom and to whom it was not given. This current system was still presented today as a great deal of justice. Remember, the poorest ones either didn't get anything at all or got less than the maximum. So as a social policy, it failed from the beginning. Now, what were the sources of the cover on this thing? The additional tax-free minimum for pensioners was one of the sources. Pensioners began to pay more because of it. If the chairman of the committee claims to support those who do not need to be supported, forgive me, it is now a question of harassment of the poorest, because the source of the cover was taken from the poorest: those on low wages were taken from pensioners and taken from the various tax increases, which, after all, burden the poorest. This sociological picture is horrible. In this sense, it actually increased both absolute and relative poverty. Relative poverty, in particular because pensioners shifted significantly towards poverty on the scale of relative poverty, increased their tax burden, which was one of the largest sources of coverage. Taken away, deleted the needs-based child benefit, because it was the face of the Reform Party. If there had been no targeted support, it could have been developed further. The excise was lifted. The joint declarations were abolished, from unworkable spouses, once again with relatively poorer associations, the cover was taken. This story of justice is slippery and cynical in itself, it is not possible to create justice with tax monasteries that ultimately take from where they should not be taken and give a relatively wild guess. Justice is also a matter of working longer, studying, taking extra lessons, and then receiving an extra fee. That's fair. Why are you applying a higher tax rate to him? You're doing it now. Aivar, I don't think you've figured it out so far. Why do you apply a marginal tax rate of 31% to the middle class, even to the poorer middle class? The average salary of the year was 1404; according to other data, it was 1407 in the last quarter of 1480 and something. Why should the tax-free minimum start to be removed from EUR 1200? Because the system was rotten from the start and you can't keep it up. One-time covers found, alcohol duty didn't work... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U97	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U98	I mean, that's the way it's gonna happen. It's got this whole graduate income tax thing in it that if a person earns more, he gets a higher tax rate. You can't keep this system where you're actually saying you're holding it. Will this change increase or reduce inequality? After all, the measure of inequality is very different. So one of the sexes here asked if it would increase or decrease. Like I said, the poor were made poorer. Look in the mirror, you made the poor poor poor with this system. You've actually made inefficiency more by means of shielding. This is one of the most ineffective possible ways to eliminate inequality. So you really shouldn't ask that question at all. The answer was: you increased inequality. Account should be taken of all these factors, which also concerned the normal increase in the tax-free minimum, which you have spoken in the negotiations for a little bit more than we wanted, but in the end, we must still compare what would have happened and what was already in force. Right now, you're basically working on the middle class, you're excluding the poor at all. In this sense, however, it is necessary to return to the old truth that social policy cannot be carried out by means of uncollected taxes, which can be done by means of the state budget. These methods that you used to establish this monster actually increased poverty, I repeat. Another thing, of course, is that every economy should have an interest in becoming more productive, smarter. As a matter of fact, there is no need for such signals that if education improves, income improves, the tax rate will increase. In conclusion, the idea of a tax-free minimum, however, is that there is one non-deductible amount that is not touched by the state and which is the same for all taxpayers. If you want to look for regressivity, look for tax exemptions. Tax exemptions distribute much more inequality-enhancingly to the upper fifth and third. But you're protecting them all. So it is easy to review the entire tax system, to abolish these exceptions for the more socially prosperous, to leave EUR 500 free of burdens to all citizens by me and to pursue social policy effectively, rather than, as the whole hall says here, that we are losing needs-based subsidies in order to raise EUR 10 child support for all. This is one of the most inefficient social policies of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U99	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, speaking on behalf of the Isamaa Group? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U100	Thank you! In order not to justify the face of justice for a very long time now and to give some parties the inalienable right to the face of justice, the Fatherland Party is simply proposing to terminate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U101	What's the suggestion? [[In the diner.]] Thank you. Kalvi Tough, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U102	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! I sincerely thank the Reform Party Group for bringing this issue to this Chamber. It has to be said that the tax burden on many people in Estonia has increased considerably over the last year. This is precisely because people's incomes have increased. As Jürgen has already said (now Jürgen can also make a small reply after Jürgen, as we agreed, is that the tax burden on many people has increased because people's wages have increased and teachers, doctors, nurses and very many other specialists are already paying very high or higher income tax. But it is important to look at the distributional effects of this tax amendment, which is who will win the bill and who will lose it. The EUR 500 tax exemption was introduced to contribute specifically to the monthly subsistence of those earning average or lower wages and to reduce income inequality. It has to be said that this year the government has failed to raise this level of EUR 500. This is a very big mistake, good members of the coalition, by you. The Social Democrats believe that the minimum wage should be tax-free in Estonia. If you can't do it at the same time, a good coalition, then do a little bit, but this limit should reach the minimum wage. Another major concern is regional policy. Regional policy is not only done by the Ministry of Regional Affairs or Jaak Aab; it should also be done in taxation. All policies, including tax policies, must contribute to improving regional netting. While my colleague, former Rae parish elder, receives an average salary of about 1800 euros, my municipality has an average salary of less than 1000 euros per month. So if it becomes the law of the draft law proposed by the Reform Party today, these people of Mart Võrguship's former or today's municipality of residence will probably win more than the people of my municipality. Therefore, in our opinion, the idea proposed by the Reform Party will, in any case, support more high-wage earners, and this will in no way contribute to reducing inequalities. With this money, it would be precisely those concerns that Jürgen suggested not to do here, perhaps to solve the problems of informal care or to offer free day-care places or such. Members of the Social Democratic Party Group cannot warmly support this proposal brought into this Chamber by the Reform Party. Mart, don't worry, I brought you as an example that you're a former parish elder of Rae, and the average wage for people in your municipality of residence is 1800 euros, but in Rõuge, it's under 1000. That was all the talk I said when you didn't notice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U103	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, word for reply, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U104	Thank you, previous speaker, for giving the floor! I can reiterate that you have already failed to pursue social policy through the tax system. What you said about me asking people not to provide services is just lying. The core of social policy must go through the services of personal care, kindergarten, all these things, this mantra I have been telling you all along, and not through the fact that we are giving you tax exemptions, you have money. But in fact, the tax exemption will never reach those weaker. You might want to figure that out. The exemptions will not reach the weaker in any way and precisely those groups that you have mentioned. That is why we should look at the tax system, its quality as a collective benefit and value, rather than looking for the individual groups with which you are passing, because you do not know how to approach the world sociologically, the poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U105	Thank you. Mart Võrguship, word for reply, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U106	It would be clarified that there is no need to compare whether people in Rae municipality will win more than in the area of Rõuge. I think that all people deserve that if they make more effort and get more money, they will not be punished for it. Today, if a person earns more than 1200 euros, he will be punished for it. I also gave an example of teachers. These salaries are certainly in a comparable order of magnitude in both municipalities. If teachers work hard with our children every day, I don't think they should be punished for trying harder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U107	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, is it a procedural question? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U108	We have a big problem here. We've been discussing it for a long time. Couldn't even listen to the last question. What's your party proposal? Is it your group's proposal to conclude the negotiations? We heard a mumble through the mask, but what they were trying to say, is there a intention to break the rules of procedure, to break democracy, to beat it? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Lämmatada.'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U109	I'll let you know, good colleague. No one's gonna break the rules. I'm about to read out that big secret. The commission has not proposed that the draft be closed or not closed at first reading, but the Group of the Fatherland has proposed. In particular, the Isamaa Group is asking to reject Bill 151 of the Amendment to the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Reform Party Group. We are going to vote on this proposal. Yes, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U110	As a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I know that we had a vote, according to which a majority of the Commission proposed to reject the draft. So I find it strange to hear the argument that the Commission has not proposed. The Commission proposed and... [[???Hääled saalis: 'Vaheaeg!'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U111	There's no need to take it. The Bureau has information, at least I have information, that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not voted at all on such a proposal in order not to terminate it. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Hääletati!'???]] There was no vote, there was a vote against the motion. The Committee on Monetary Affairs voted to close the first reading, and it was not supported, but the proposal not to end it was not voted on in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. So, therefore, no such proposal has been tabled in this large hall either. Everything is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, Jürgen. Now, I think everyone is clear now and we can go to the vote on the proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Isamaa Group to reject Bill 151 of the Amendment to the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Reform Party Group. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 31 abstentions. Draft 151 falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U112	Let's move on to today's agenda. Agenda item 4, First reading of Bill 154 of the Amendment to the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. I ask Maris Lauri, a member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you a draft aimed at restoring the possibility of joint declarations by spouses. This means that the income and deductions of both spouses will be aggregated, as opposed to the present one, if only a limited share of some costs can be made. If, for some reason, the other party has no revenue or is extremely low, even this small share of costs cannot be used. Prior to the introduction of the current progressive income tax, Estonian tax law was the principle that spouses submit a joint tax return. This principle is... [[There's a noise in the hall, the manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you. This principle is linked to what is in our family law and to the fact that marriage mates generally have common property. Marriage usually means a contract of common property and obligations, and it makes perfect sense to have a joint tax return. The message of our change is family policy as a value and principle. This is a family-friendly legislative amendment. This particularly supports families where one of the parties, one of the spouses, earns less or much less than the other spouse or does not earn at all. This makes it possible to use the possibilities of deduction, all those that are already being offered today, even those that cannot actually be used by the family, because one earner in the family simply does not cover these opportunities with his or her income. What are the benefits of rich tax exemptions if they cannot be actually used? They're seeming, and they're not really helping anyone. It's like words. Let's do something real, something that really helps families. Very much has been said by the party on the window side of the hall in particular, of whom, unfortunately, no one is currently in the Chamber, because the joint declarations have a negative impact on women's income, working life and, unfortunately, social coping in the future. It is very important to look at every draft in the context of existing laws. Let's see what was years ago. In fact, then, the woman at home with the children had a choice whether to go full - time to work and earn money and see where the child could be put and cared for, or to be at home and not to serve at all, or to be able to earn an extremely small amount of income. Perhaps, in a very simple way, the choice was: take it or leave it. If we look at the laws now, a situation has been created in which families have a very high degree of flexibility in the use of children's benefits and parental benefits and parental leave. This means that within three years, work can be divided between a man and a woman with different burdens. It doesn't bind them together in any way and rigidly so that one party has to work and the other doesn't work or is an obstacle to not being able to work. Maybe the glitch I'm admitting to some extent may have existed is, in my opinion, lost by now. Women are currently able to work during parental leave, earn income. The same possibility is true for men. Personally, I'm always disturbed by that attitude. Yes, as a fact, we know that women have on average lower incomes than men, as a result of the fact that very many women work in positions where pay levels are lower. However, I do not want to talk about women as servants of lower incomes. Talk about being a family member with less income and a family member with more income, as there are more and more families where women earn more than men. I would also not, in fact, rule out the possibility of softening one problem by means of a joint declaration. I was in the previous composition of the Social Committee, and precisely at the time of the adoption of the Parental Benefits Act, the discussion was that one of the parents who earns more did not want to be at home with the child, but preferred to work and ultimately earn more income for the family, because the net income of the family is greater in doing so, as the possibility of deductions for the family is lower. If we create the possibility of a joint declaration, there will be more use of these deductions and therefore the greater income of the servant will be less motivated and perhaps also the need to go to work, so that he can use this opportunity to spend some time at home with the child, and the less income of the servant can go to work at that time. In fact, such a softer solution helps families much more. But generally, at the level of a single family, the winnings obtained by such a joint declaration can be very varied, some smaller, some larger, some rather modest. However, I do not believe that because of the victory resulting from this joint declaration, anyone will change their behaviour very much precisely in the aspect of whether or not to be at home with the child. I think that this value, the value of being at home, the value of behaviour based on expectations is much greater. Once again, the question is not always whether someone is home with a child. This is indeed one of the most common situations, but there are also families where one party is unemployed or one party is partially able to work and, as a result, is working at a lower burden. The possibility of creating a joint declaration will also, in fact, help to cushion the so-called purely social problems and will do so by highlighting family values. I think that this approach, in order to restore the possibility for families to submit a joint declaration, is precisely the possibility that no one has the obligation to do so, in fact, has a number of aspects. It strengthens the family, binds it better, fits into our family laws, solves social problems a little, and allows families to cope better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U114	Thank you. You have questions too. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U115	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Now, if I remember correctly, this collective declaration could have been done for no matter how long. Years ago, I remember, it was just the day of the feast. My wife and I sat down and declared. I remember more or less when it disappeared, but I don't remember exactly why it disappeared. Do you remember, can you explain? I know that when the same smiling nice person sitting behind you, Helir-Valdor Seeder, became chairman of the Fatherland, it was already lost. He was very family-centred and promised that joint declaration would have to be brought back. Yet, it has now been three years since the bird's flight. Can you refresh my memory, Maris, why is it gone? Why hasn't it come back?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U116	Thank you. I can't remember when it was originally introduced, either, but I remember when it was lost. It was abolished at the moment when our tax system was stepped up and there was some way to cover the budget gap resulting from the establishment of the stages. Then it was one of the ways to take the family's expense. I think it was certainly not a good solution, a step-by-step system is, in my opinion, a bad one, but taking away from families is, in my opinion, bad from every ideological point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U117	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In the debate on the previous draft, we were surprised to hear that there was no debate in the committee in principle, but there was such a semi-mono debate, the members of the coalition committee did not participate at all in the debate, which I think is extremely sad and our Riigikogu is not very decorated. How were the circumstances of the debate on this draft, whether the members of the coalition took the floor and expressed their opinion, or whether they were just like mute teeth?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U119	The discussion was relatively short and consisted in the presentation by a representative of the Ministry of Finance of the Government's objections, to which we raised our objections. Relatively similar, unfortunately, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U120	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U121	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group at its meeting on 20 April. The draft was presented by Maris Lauri, representative of the initiators, and Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the Government's opinion and answered questions from the members of the Commission. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to place the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 5 May including, to appoint a rapporteur for the committee here, to complete the first reading of the draft and to set the deadline for submitting amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act 10 working days, 19 May at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U122	Thank you. You have questions too. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! There are certainly things that you do not know exactly, as we discovered during the debate on the previous draft, but I am sure you know exactly what will happen to this bill, whether it will be rejected by the coalition today (although you supported it in the committee), you will vote or there will be no vote at all today, and you will let this bill go through and he will be dusted somewhere in the financial committee's shelf. I don't believe that, and neither do you believe this bill will become a law. You're not gonna do that, even though you're happy to pretend that you're family-centred and family-friendly. But tell me, between these first two alternatives, whichever happens now, whether you let him through today and he just stays dusty or you vote right out and give a clear signal to the people of Estonia that you are not interested in family-centredness and family values.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U124	Thank you for your question. The Commission has consensually decided to close the first reading. I hope that no one in this Chamber will make [the other] a proposal. You can always vote, but we have representatives of all political parties in the Commission, and everyone supported this draft. I hope the hall will support you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U125	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U126	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I ask whether you also had a debate in the Commission on this issue and, if there was a debate, whether there were some arguments against the debate as to why this law could not enter into force.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U127	Thank you. The debate was relatively short. The government's position was not to support this bill. The justifications were that the arguments were put forward by the two parties, Maris as rapporteur for the draft and Mrs Oro on the other. However, the Commission maintained its position to conclude the first reading and to look into the draft, because there are certainly places where there may be different opinions. But we didn't get that far with the discussion. We were consensually in agreement to conclude the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U128	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U129	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! This amendment is very much awaited. Last time it was possible to submit joint declarations, there were over 75 000 joint declarations submitted. It gives an idea how many people would be affected by this change. I will return to the next steps in this draft. As chairman of the committee, you have a very important role to play when the draft comes to the agenda and when it should return from the committee to the Chamber. Since there are really different speculations about the coalition's plan to actually just leave this bill in the drawer, I will give you the opportunity to disprove it here and share with us what the future timetable for this draft is. We know the deadline for amendments, but when should the draft come to second reading in the Chamber as proposed by you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U130	Thank you. Since this draft also entails a cost for the state budget on the other hand, I dare say here today that this debate in the Commission will certainly take place before the summer after the amendments, but the decisions will most likely come with the debate on the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U131	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress, if perhaps one of the keywords of the previous draft, which often sounded, were rich and poor (although I do not consider such an approach to be very right in itself, to be quite honest, because our great wealth is that we have our own country and we can freely deliver here), then the question of this draft is clearly a value-based approach to finance. As chairman of a committee with long experience, tell me one reason why this bill should not come back to the hall and get over the support, i.e. the support of the entire Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U133	Thank you, Urmas! First of all, the proposals for improvement must definitely be awaited and analysed. We recognise that the Commission has not discussed this draft in substance more than the debate on sending it to first reading. Usually, as you know, serious discussions between first and second readings are being held in committee, looking at pros and cons. The principle that families can make a joint declaration is, I think, the understanding of most members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber. This draft will certainly be examined and, if necessary, corrected. But I stress once again that, since it also has a budgetary effect, this law, if the Riigikogu adopts it, will certainly not be in force until the declarations of next year are made. When we come to the budget debate, it will certainly be on the table again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U134	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U135	Thank you. Good Aivar! As chairman of the committee, you are expected to have an overview and understanding of the views of the various parties, or at least you could have. The position of the Reform Party you know, it is this draft that we have tabled. I assume that if the chairman of your party nodded behind your back on Valdo Randper's question, the Fatherland will also support this bill. I understand that the Social Democrats are also in favour of supporting family values. In general, EKRE has also been in favour of this. Is the only one who opposes this hall the Central Party? Or do you have any other idea who doesn't support the joint declarations in this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U136	I must stress once again that all five political parties in this Chamber are represented in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and everyone unanimously supported the completion of the first reading of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-05_U137	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 154. The first reading is finished. I shall set the deadline of 19 May at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Thank you. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.55 a.m.
