ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U1	Hello and good Wednesday morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start the briefing. And first, we'll do the presence check. There are 45 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 56 members. The following members of the government will take part in today's Question Time: the Prime Minister of Home Affairs Mart Helme, the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas and the Minister of Finance Martin Helme. First of all, as usual, the interviewers who register will receive the floor, the questioner will also have the opportunity to clarify the question and then one member of the Riigikogu from the hall. The question must fit in two minutes, please stick to it! There are three minutes to respond. As the time allows, we can deal with the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U2	First of all, the first questioner is Taavi Rõivas and responds to the Prime Minister's duties as Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U3	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. A few days ago, Toni Jalonen, a representative of indigenous Finns, participated in the EKRE event, who announced the following about the speech chair: 'Today I am an ethnonationalist, a traditionalist and a fascist. " He served the spontaneous applause of those in the hall. My question is very simple: will it be okay in Estonia's political culture in 2020 if a person calls himself a fascist at a meeting of the government party and thus gets a welcome applause?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U4	Thank you for your question. But it's going to have to be adjusted a little bit. First of all, it wasn't a party event. As far as I know, this conference was Etnofutur and was organised not by the Estonian Conservative People's Party, which is the government department, but by the Blue Awakening Actors. As far as this speech is concerned, neither I nor any member of the government nor any member of the political party is responsible if someone at the conference announces something that is not the position of our party. It is a citizen of another country, a representative of a party in another country. I do not see that in the Republic of Estonia we have some kind of Confucian principle of collective responsibility, that all those who are staying somewhere where someone says something are responsible for what this someone says, even if they do not agree with this position. As for applause, I do not know whether or not there was applause because I was not present at that meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U5	Thank you. Javier in clothing, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U6	Thank you. Well, that clip of this speech and the applause that followed, which is clearly what Toni Jalonen feels flattered about, is circulating in social media. I'm sure your assistants will be able to brief you on this. But, as it has been pointed out, it is also worth clarifying that this same Blue Awakening is not just an organisation, but is the youth body of your party, your breeding ground, from which your next delegates and ministers will come. And, oh surprise, there is also the current member of the Riigikogu, Reuben Kaalep, who, as I know, also met Toni Jalonen. Moreover, the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia also met with this Toni Jalonen. Allegedly, the pictures have been posing together and everything else. I'm not asking you about it, and I don't think you should be responsible for what anyone says at the event you're doing. That was what the Native Finns had to respond to. The indigenous party reacted unambiguously and, according to the public, Toni Jalonen is no longer in the leadership of the Blue Awakening sister organization. But what I'm interested in is that reaction in the hall. There were mostly members of your party, your party's uprising. And my question is: what do you do now, as leader of your party, as a follow-up to the applause that acknowledged the fact that you declared yourself a fascist at your party event?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U7	Well, I suggest you take a list of all those who were there. The majority of those present were not citizens of the Republic of Estonia, but citizens of other countries. I don't know what I'm doing with Hungarians and Poles. I don't know what I'm gonna do to those who applauded when they applauded... I haven't looked at that clip yet, I'm not into it. I didn't attend the event, like I said. So what do we do with the foreigners who were there and applauded? Maybe you'll give me some advice. I have no administrative or other methods to deal with these people. I am not a fascist, I have never advocated a fascist ideology, and I do not approve of such a statement. That is my personal position. But I can't take any responsibility for the people who were there. When they applauded, they applauded. I am not going to undertake a special diplomatic mission to Warsaw, Budapest or some other third place to go reprimand these people, it is not conceivable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U8	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U9	Thank you. Mr. Acting Prime Minister! You're saying you haven't seen it, you don't know it, you don't have any responsibility, and you don't have any, what was it like? just the instruments or methods of influencing this thing. But all right. However, you need an assessment of your position. Tell me, if you were in that hall, what would have been your reaction? Would you be happy, too, or were you somehow surprised? Let me remind you that the natives reacted very resolutely. Do you think that labels such as fascists are appropriate and acceptable for all of them to hang around their necks at a political event? Your party is now involved in this event; your moral political statement would be appropriate. Try it!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U10	I have just assessed and said that I do not share these views. What do we do with Bernie Sanders, who says she's a communist? We have condemned communism, it is an anti-human ideology. Fascism and national socialism have been condemned; they are anti-human ideologies. I don't know the exact wording that was there, but it's possible I could have gotten up and gone out. Maybe. I don't know, because I wasn't there. Once again: I was not there, I took no responsibility, we do not have the principle of collective responsibility. I went to North Korea in 1986, last century. It was then discussed at the Soviet consulate, where Soviet citizens, including me, were instructed, all of our Estonian group was informed about these conditions, about this country. And it said, by the way, that beware of any contact with the local people, because there is a Confucian principle of collective responsibility in North Korea and you think a friendly conversation with a national citizen can end up sending this person to camp, putting him in prison, or even execution. This ideology, which you are trying to inspire here in any way, is exactly the same. We condemn collective responsibility. But little of us judging, we're going to execute, too. I do not share that view. Just because someone says something that I disagree with doesn't mean that I, or the people who heard it, should somehow be condemned and executed. That's the twisted way of thinking you represent. We do not have collective responsibility; we have individual responsibility. And people who have done something that doesn't comply with the law are personally responsible for it. In this case, this native member has already assumed his responsibility. I do not think that the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has yet to assume any responsibility. I really don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U12	Next, Indrek Saar asks and answers Home Secretary Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mart Helme! My question is driven by the question of Question Time last week, which I put to Minister for Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige, and his reply, as well as by the speech of the President on the anniversary of this year's Republic, where he made an important point, among other things, on the subject of the informal caretakers. I quote: '... With current resources, it cannot be said that carers, given their emotionally and physically difficult work, would receive a fair salary. ' However, I am pleased to remind you that in your election programme, you have promised to raise the care allowance to the minimum wage and, in your Question Time on 15 May last year, you said that, in cooperation with local authorities, you will raise the care allowance to the minimum wage from 1 January. Let us remind you, then, that the minimum wage will be EUR 584 in 2020. That's a very sympathetic goal. But the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik, whose responsibility this should take place, unfortunately, did not comment on your promise in substance in Question Time last week, but said that we are encouraging-enhancing-analyzing. Perhaps you will tell us in concrete terms when the government will fulfill this promise, which you repeated to the people of Estonia in the Prime Minister's duties last spring. And when will that money reach the caretakers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U14	Well, I'm gonna start by saying that the President isn't involved in lawmaking. The President cannot dictate to the Riigikogu or the government how the Riigikogu or the government can and considers it possible to use the money. Let's get this straight first. We have the principle of separation of powers and the Office of the President does not command the wallet of the Estonian state. Thank God! As far as personal care is concerned, this is a big problem. We have raised this problem in the coalition, as you may have noticed, because we believe that it is possible to use the resources of the Ministry of Social Affairs in a more rational and targeted way. We are also faced, as you all know, with negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy and next year's budget. We certainly want to channel more money into informal care and support for vulnerable people and make sure that this money gets to them as well, not somewhere between the earth and the sky. This cannot be decided, of course, by just one coalition partner; it must be a joint decision, but I am quite convinced that we will reach these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U15	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U16	Am I right to understand that your reply may have made it clear that you consider this issue to be such a priority that your group will certainly also support the draft decision of the Riigikogu initiated by the Social Democrats, which will oblige the Government of the Republic to take concrete actions in this very important area and come to the Riigikogu with concrete solutions, because the analyses have been carried out sufficiently? However, the original position of my question on this second question is this: what are your financial proposals in the negotiations on a country's budgetary strategy in the area of informal care? If I make a very simple calculation in my head, given the current minimum wage and the fact that family carers are currently paid around €20 to €100 depending on the local government, this means that about €6,000 per year is needed for every informal carer. There are over 17,000 in-house carers, i.e. more than EUR 100 million would be needed next year if this rate were raised to the minimum wage, to the minimum wage. What are the financial proposals you are going to defend in the country's budget strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U17	Well, it's a little early to say right now that these and these things have already been decided, agreed. We are very well aware of these amounts. With regard to the draft that you mentioned, we briefly touched on it in the group today. We have not yet made our decision, we are also consulting with coalition partners on its possible support or not. So I'm not giving any particular answer here right now. As far as carers are concerned, in fact, the circle of those in need of support is wider. We must look very clearly at what can be done with money, but also at what can be done with social guarantees and other legal initiatives in order to improve and lighten the situation of these people and make their actions recognised.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U18	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is very sympathetic for me that you still think that this issue is extremely important, and that helping these people is a matter of particular concern. My question, perhaps, would be better if I presented it to the Minister of Finance, but by looking at the long line of questioning, I am not sure that I will reach it with the subject of carers very clearly. In fact, in the equalisation fund formula, which is in the money allocated to local authorities, the characteristic of the support of the informal guardian is decreasing. And in fact, it is decreasing so much that, in 2017, if the value of the adult parameter being maintained was EUR 649, it will fall to zero by 2024. And in the case of children, it has fallen as part of the support fund by 2026. Now the local authorities are in a very sad situation. In summary, the amounts allocated to the cared adults and children in the Equalisation Fund are in a very strong downward trend. It cannot be expected at all that by 2024 there will be no more adults to be cared for in local governments or by 2026 there will be no more children to be cared for. Unfortunately, outside the Golden Circle, income tax receipts do not grow so rapidly and do not cover all the tasks assigned to local governments and compulsory tasks. If you are going to calculate the budget strategy, I would very much ask you, because once again: by looking at this order, I am not sure that I can put this question to the Minister of Finance, so that you will take this into account. Because local authorities are under a lot of pressure in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U20	Well, I'd say the whole country is under a lot of pressure because I always want more than there's a chance. But as far as the Equalisation Fund and local governments are concerned, I would say that local authorities have not spent money themselves very often, or have not spent it deliberately. So here, this thing isn't so one-to-one that goes to zero, it doesn't go to zero, it doesn't. I wouldn't be so pessimistic in general. This government has made people a priority very clearly. And when people are given priority, they also look at money numbers that can always be moved and changed. So I wouldn't be so pessimistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U22	The next question is in order No 3, submitted by Aivar Sõerd and answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr Helme! The big issue of today is that the Tax and Customs Board within your jurisdiction has started to refund personal income tax. On this big day, there is a reason to talk a little bit about personal income tax. In 2016, when this exponentially decreasing system of tax-free income was introduced by Jüri Ratas during the previous government, you were in opposition. Today, this experiment has been going on for two years and shows, let's say, a failure, because this range of higher taxation starts at 1200 euros. This range is also being reached by teachers with a minimum wage, police workers, etc., who are not already on very high incomes. Well, it's not the worst, but still, let's say, the average salary will be over 1500 euros next year. I've been looking at the data from the Ministry of Finance that you have up there. According to the wage declarations of the previous year alone, the monthly pay payment here in the municipalities of the nearest neighbourhood of Tallinn exceeds EUR 1700 in Viimsi, Harku, Rae, but compared to the old system, it is a breaking point at EUR 1760, as you know very well. This means that more and more people are already reaching the country with their income, that they will not even receive the tax-free income that was in 2016 under the Taavi Rõivas government. Of course, you haven't figured it out, but you're responsible for these things. I am asking if the goal is to reach the point that people will soon not even receive the tax-free income that was during the rule of Taavi Clothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U24	Thank you. What a wonderful passionate performance! I know, of course, that the Reform Party is going to present today a draft that will change exactly the same law and fundamentally re-engineering the system. Indeed, it is true that the current tax system has been done by the previous government during the previous Riigikogu and it was not done with the support of our party. But I might explain a few things. Of course, we must start with the question of whether it has failed or whether, on the contrary, it has been very successful. When we talk about the rapid growth of people's incomes, it tells us at the same time that, if there is a tax system that provides incentives for people on small wages, but now there is a concern that we no longer have people on small wages, because wages have increased so much, I am not sure that we should estimate that there is a huge failure, because people's wages have risen very quickly. Indeed, they will no longer receive the tax credit in this form, but if we ask whether their lives have improved, the answer is that they have improved. It is now a question of political preferences, of worldview and also of practical agreements whether we want to bring this advantage after them because of the growth in their incomes, or whether we are leaving it there, so that it only works for the benefit of those with the lowest incomes. These are all such theoretical discussions, however, because in practice, when this government coalition was put together, it was agreed on a tax truce, i.e. it was decided that no major tax reforms would take place during this government. I welcome, of course, the tax debate which deals with substantive arguments, the search for answers and the public's explanation in the light of whether one or the other tax measure and the tax credit are effectively doing their job, fulfilling the objective which it originally had or not, and with its impact on people's incomes by decile or on the state budget and on overall social development. It will certainly be useful when we discuss these matters, and it will certainly be one of the issues that will be put before the voters in the next Riigikogu elections. But I'd cool off your enthusiasm, I don't see the possibility of us changing the current system basically over the next few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U25	Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U26	Thank you. Dear Minister, Yes, of course, I agree with you in that sense that it is very good when people's salaries, incomes are growing. But, let's say, if we look at the tax system now, that's the problem, in a situation where wages and incomes are growing rapidly, the tax system that was introduced a few years ago is not appropriate for our conditions. When I asked the Minister of Social Affairs about the same thing last week, he is also the chairman of the Tax Board of the Central Party, he was still much more specific. I don't know what it's from. The Centre Party was then directly involved in the creation of this thing, but I have realized that today we have reached the point that the creators of this system themselves have realised that this cannot go on. Tanel Kiigel had a number of options here for improving and changing the system. One was that the higher tax threshold could be postponed or the formula changed so that tax-free income never reached zero. It's starting to look a little bit like our system, the solution we're proposing. Or even he had this idea: let's make tax reduction regions belong to each target group. Did I understand correctly what you were saying that, now that the budget strategy is in progress, all these solutions have a price tag, our solutions also have a price tag, none of the proposed options, which the Centre Party has spoken about, will ever make it to the budget strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U27	Thank you. As we all know, the drafting of a country's budget strategy is about to begin. In March, we will have our first discussions on numbers, and today all ministers have sent me their priorities. I must admit, however, that no Minister has received a proposal to make our income tax system a principle, which I would certainly have noticed. With regard to this price tag, yes, your bill, which I have not yet seen, but I have read the press release on this, the news, would mean a reduction in public revenue of EUR 250 million. What is the issue of substance? The substantive question, I'd say, is split into two. One thing is that the current system, which is, I agree, also in the eyes of its creators, with their faults, and these errors are certainly disturbing or frustrating, is there a compromise between whether or not we have a graduated tax system. The current system is somewhere in the meantime, it cannot actually be called a graduated income tax system, but it still differentiates the income tax rate by income. Now, in essence, this proposal, which you have made, is a two-tier income tax system, isn't it, up to EUR 500, exempt from income tax and from that everyone has the same income tax. It is certainly good to point out that you too have withdrawn from your dogma, that under no circumstances do you support progressive income tax. But, in my view, the most important discussion would be this, and it comes to the question of progressive or non-statutory income tax, of whether we have to make exactly the same tax incentives for all people, regardless of their income, especially given that it has a very expensive price. Do people who earn two and a half thousand or four or five thousand euros need this tax credit? Of course, no one will say no to him if he gets a tax credit, but if we save 100 or 200 million on it, we could do the same things in social welfare, for example, that the previous questioners were talking about here. I dare say that my philosophy does not support the granting of benefits to wealthier people at the same rate as for poorer people. But this is a debate, which is actually an election debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U28	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This tax debate, or the way the government treats taxes today, reminds us of a bit of the press about the Estonian Autosports Association, when one thing has started working well, you have to put the collars on and start taking more from there. Why does it scare or irritate me in this sense, in fact, is that your party, as well as your EKRE lead figure, have said many times that we do not need to bring in the hands of workers and migrant workers, that companies have to build innovation and do it themselves, this has been a taboo issue. Although the public knows that these working hands have raised our GDP and helped our economy to grow, that is a fact, it cannot be denied. The other side is that if we need our hands, we tax our pensioners. Perhaps, on the one hand, we are taxing an average pension with income tax, no government has done so, but the government of Jüri Ratas has done so, and you are a member of this government, and, on the other, also working pensioners. It's like a kind of punishment. Please tell me why, as Minister of Finance, this ideology, which you seem to want to pursue, does not bring it into line with reality. After all, it is completely illogical to tax working pensioners and people receiving an average pension if we do not want to have so much migrant labour in Estonia, even though business might want it. When you said that the Reform Party has gone the same way towards progressive income tax, it is 6,000, or I do not know how many thousands of levels that are actually present, can still be overcome, probably not any party in Estonia will reach it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U30	Thank you. Yes, as regards, for example, the exemption from income tax on pensioners or average pensions or any exemption from income tax on pensions, there is also a difference. When we talk about keeping an average pension exempt from income tax, its price cap or its cost in terms of the state budget is about ten times lower than the minimum income tax you offer. Now the question is, where are we going to put this money and how much we are going to make of it? Indeed, I think that it is reasonable not to collect 25 million from the state budget for pensions, at least average pensions, to be exempt from income tax. But not collecting 250 million income tax in order for everyone, regardless of their income, to receive this benefit, to be unreasonable in my view. That's the choice. If we're talking about us wanting to take more from somewhere, I'm still afraid to argue with you. If this government has even made any tax rulings, they have been tax reductions. This means that people's purchasing power has increased. This is also a statistical fact. As far as migrant workers are concerned, let us not confuse this beautiful claim that one third of Estonia's GDP came from areas where migrant workers are most used. But perhaps, if domestic labour had been used there and the real salary paid to them was one that a domestic worker would be willing to work with, then GDP would have been even higher. After all, we all understand that the introduction of low-cost labour actually hampers GDP growth, economic growth, innovation and productivity growth. In that sense, it's a very shortsighted way of trying to get through here cheaply, it's finally starting to inhibit our development. And it inhibits wage increases in all sectors, but above all, of course, in those sectors where migrant workers are introduced, i.e. it also inhibits the revenue from the state budget, the collection of labour taxes. So I wouldn't say we have taboo, but we have a very healthy approach to migrant labour. We also want to get taxes on them, precisely because some of those who come to us as temporary agency workers are basically completely tax-free. This, in turn, also means squandering the labour market; here we have a certain number of workers who basically work at dumped prices. So ultimately, yes, I agree that efforts must be made to exempt pensioners from income tax, that is part of the RES negotiations, but it is a lot cheaper than giving everyone a wide table of benefits.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U31	Thank you. I will conclude on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U32	Next is the question of Kalvi Tõvi and the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas will answer that question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U33	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Minister of Culture, Tõnis! I was moved to ask for a sincere concern, which is as follows: less than 150 days have remained until a wonderful event like Shell Helix Rally Estonia. In recent days, however, there has been a media dispute or a big fight between the Estonian Autosport Association and the organisers of the rally. As a person of Tartu, I think you know the importance of this event for our region. There were over 50,000 visitors last year; this year this figure would probably be even higher. Of course, it is not just people's wonderful time in the race that is good for our region. Tourist companies have made a lot of preparations for many days, overnight stays, etc. The government has seen all of this. The previous government, under the leadership of the then Minister of Culture Indrek Saare, found a million euros to support such an important event for South-East and South-East Estonia. Of course, you could say that this is a topic between the union and the organisers, but it is a very important event for one part of Estonia. As a minister, what have you done, what are you going to do, or are you going to do anything to resolve this disagreement and the dispute, so that this important event in 150 days' time will still take place in our area?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good questioner, very good questioner! In our government, of course, we are going to do a lot. You mentioned well that during the previous government, this agreement was signed that the stage of the World Rally Championship was applied to Estonia. To do this, we need to make promotional races every year. The current government has continued to finance it. So the plans are big, because indeed, this economic benefit comes from this enterprise, but not only economic benefits, but in fact, this sport is now uniting and very important for Estonians. So, on the one hand, this is a great event, which brings very important benefits both regionally and across Estonia; on the other hand, we have a good moment when we have our racers at the very top of the world. What's the problem? Looking at a distance and, in some ways, just from a distance, we need to look at this thing, because sport management is decentralised and sports movement is free to make its decisions, the situation is, according to my understanding, an ordinary egg and a chicken dilemma: which is more important, either an egg or a chicken. The Chicken or Car Sports Association thinks that the egg, or the organiser of a particular event, has not been grateful enough, because the egg can only exist because it has existed before. Estonia's motor sport has been before, and therefore the general applications of the Autosport Association should as if be more respected. Yes, in an incomprehensible way, it is now a very steep increase in the tribute to this general henhouse. Seems ultimative. If you look on the side of the country, we have tried to solve the problem on several occasions. The Ministry of Culture has already held two meetings this year in the presence of all parties. We have also made our proposals. But the main thing is still the will of the Car Sports Association and that their desire to receive EUR 100000 as a contribution fee, as it were, or as the organiser of this particular event, is disproportionate and unreasonable. That is what the State has expressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U35	Barrow Hard, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U36	Thanks! Once again, I think we're all hoping for this event to happen. If the Ministry has the opportunity to convene these meetings on another third to fourth time in order to seek conciliation between the parties, I would urge you to do so. In my opinion, only the Minister or the Ministry can do this, not the Sports Support Group of the Riigikogu or any other. My question is that maybe we should reconsider some of the funding for sport in this light. Indeed, the Alliance for Car Sports is working to support young people and where they still have these costs, perhaps something needs to be revisited here. Do you have any plans to rethink the sport facility in the light of all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U37	Thank you again for a very good question. The state supports the introduction of major events, large sports events in Estonia. For all sports where such preparations have been made that the event wants to come to Estonia, the state will undoubtedly fully support it, both morally and budgetaryly. Autosport is still in a fully-selected situation. That's a lot of money, actually almost half of the annual rally costs is now paid by the state when we're talking about promotional rally. If, in three years' time, the real stage could be brought here, it is, of course, more expensive and the state can also raise its stakes, but it can still be done if the leaders of a particular sport are well-sighted and agreed with each other. I very much hope that this dispute will be resolved because, indeed, the organisers of this particular stage cannot take a piece of state money and simply pay 100,000 to their union, it is also prohibited by law, because it is the targeted money that we have given. There can be no additional legal or financial assistance to solve this problem. There they still have to consider for themselves whether the damage that this race and, finally, the possible cancellation of the World Cup stage will have to do with the sport is worth it, that every year some more money will be made in their cups. I think it would mean irreparable loss to Estonian motor sport, both to fans and to these top pilots and to our ability to get international events in the future if we failed ourselves. So, as the president called for, he was black and whiter in this sense and more embossed, he went out of the literary and film world into his fantasies and made black and white solutions, who is good and who is evil, we have to say now: we hope that both sides can work things out. We are not now saying that one side is right and the other is not right, but we really hope that the men and women of Estonia, the organisers of the two events, will be able to agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U38	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Perhaps I should not ask this question at all because I have been emotionally involved as mayor of Tartu. The organisers came to the Tartu City Government and said that they had such a vision and vision; they would like to bring this stage clearly also related to Tartu. We understand and understand how much time, commitment and money are required to organise such an international event. Therefore, I am very pleased that our country has understood this and understood that certain events also bring a very positive reputation to the Estonian state, apart from the direct tax revenue that comes here. Yesterday, for example, we had an EAS meeting at the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and we clearly see the numbers that big events are doing, including our great singing parties. My question is motivated by the fact that there is always an opportunity and hope, and it is said that hope dies last to find peace between the parties. I would like to understand whether you have personally met the people of the Alliance for Car Sports, literally, and asked them to find some sense. Because it very clearly resembles extortion on the basis of public information when, at such short notice, the management costs of some kind of licence fee are increased to such a high level for the sub-union. It's completely unreasonable. I am already wondering whether the Ministry of Culture or the State in general should not impose sanctions on the Union that acts in this way. But my question is rather human: have you personally met the people of the Alliance for Car Sports and tried to find peace?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U40	Thank you for a very good question. The funding of the sub-unions does not come directly from the Ministry's budget lines; there are also specific steps. And right now we're talking about financing an event. We can call back the money for this event, but we do not really have reproaches for the organisers of this event themselves. So this is definitely not the step we are planning right now. Yes, I have not met the drivers of the motor sports association or the other half, the organisers of this Estonian stage of racing. We have the Deputy Sports Chancellor who holds, organises and coordinates these meetings. So you could say the Ministry of Culture has a pulse on this thing every day. I have a feeling that not all members of the board of the Estonian Autosports Association understand the sharpness of the situation at the moment and that if something is said, there will also be results and consequences. I very much hope that a solution will be found. But I can see that in this case, this shock has already been created. It may happen that in those days such a peaceful preparation period will be interrupted and we will begin to patch up the consequences afterwards. I'd be very sorry about that. But as I said, there is nothing the country can do now, because it is a matter of decentralised and independent smart governance of the sub-Union. Speaking of organizers, Urmo Aava and his team have done everything very openly, technically and financially well, as far as I know. I have absolutely no doubt that if for some reason the Estonian Autosport Association achieves that the stage of the Estonian race and the possible dream of the race stage of the World Cup will be pushed out of Estonia here, then Urmo Aava and his team will be able to organise the best race in the world somewhere else in a very perfect way. But my great hope and dream is that this is still happening in Estonia and that we can make these agreements. And I have no doubt that we are now in the process of doing, say, the best stage in the world, as members of the management board of the Estonian Autosport Association, who are less than ten, give the Estonian people the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U42	Next... Urmas Kruuse, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U43	Yes, it is. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! I'm a little sorry about your partymate Martin Helmes. He's got a cup of coffee on that chair. Would you let him put that coffee cup on the table, or would you suggest that he go out with it? I think, on the one hand, it is unhygienic and, on the other hand, it should not keep him under such pressure because he may have a few more questions to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U44	Thank you. If the members of the Riigikogu do not mind, I will be happy to accept your proposal. Please, you can have coffee! But let it be an exception. Question 5, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, answers the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U45	Thank you, good manager. With regard to the execution and filing of income declarations, all the errors that this current tax system of thousands of steps contains have now come out quite acutely again. One of the changes ever made by the Government of Jüri Ratas, which the current government jealously defends, concerns a very large number of Estonian families, which is a joint declaration of income for spouses. In the past, if the joint declaration granted the right and the possibility for spouses to use the full amount of the income tax-free minimum for both spouses, even if, for example, one of them was at home in a large family, the current system does not allow it. Of course, this essentially means that a very large number of families simply cannot take advantage of this opportunity. It was a right that you do not foresee during the current government, despite the promises you vaguely made at the time of the government, that this change would be turned back and that families would be given such an opportunity again. In 2015, when the possibility to submit joint declarations was still available, more than 78000 were submitted. This is indeed a very large number of Estonian families. I ask you, Mr Helme, as a member of the government responsible for the Prime Minister's duties, why you still have to correct this mistake in the government. If we re-submit in Parliament a draft which will restore the possibility of presenting the joint declarations in full, will you be prepared to support it? Because it's a mistake that needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U46	Thank you. In fact, you are pointing out a very sharp question indeed. It is true that our party, both during the election campaign and now in the government, has believed that joint declarations should be restored, and that family people should have the opportunity to present them. Regrettably, however, we did not reach a consensus in the coalition negotiations on this issue, which is why there is no such thing directly in the current government programme. This does not mean, however, that we have thrown this issue completely aside and, in the course of our work, try to convince our coalition partners: it is a sensible idea; it is a useful idea for our people. This is also, from a bureaucratic point of view, a simplification idea. So I wouldn't say we've given up on our pre-election commitment, but I can't do it here today. With regard to the possibility that the Reform Party will present a draft with you, perhaps the Social Democrats, and whether we would support it, it deserves to be fully considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U47	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U48	Thank you, good manager. Another mistake that the current tax system contains concerns older people and the situation where there is a very large shortage of working people in Estonia, a large shortage of workers. As you certainly know very well in the government, there are basically no working hands in every area. I'm sure you're also familiar with the forecasts that show and confirm that this trend doesn't disappear, but rather deepens year after year, and there are fewer people of working age in Estonia. It is therefore, of course, important for the state to take advantage of the opportunities it has to motivate people to continue working and also to motivate people who, due to their age, could retire at home but are willing to continue working. We have spoken on several occasions in this Parliament about the importance of keeping those people who are ready to continue to participate in the labour market. The current tax system deprived working pensioners of the right to use the additional income tax exemption and thus essentially created a situation where working pensioners were taxed at a higher level. The message it sent out was essentially that older people are not needed in the labour market. This year, too, there are a very large number of older people who have already received a tax bill from the state when they fill in income tax returns and are obliged to pay in hundreds of euros not already very high incomes to the state. This is wrong and unfair; it must be changed on this issue too, we have already exchanged ideas here before. With the Reform Party Group, we already passed over a draft more than half a year ago that would change this situation. We handed over a bill that would exclude a working pensioner, but also, for example, the beneficiary of a survivor's pension from a higher tax. Unfortunately, the situation is now that you and the Government Union are essentially blocking the debate on this draft in this House. This bill is locked in a drawer, and there's no way they're sending him to this hall. Mr Helme, you are a replacement for the Prime Minister, but you are also the chairman of the second largest party in the government. Why has this situation arisen, and when will such an unfair and wrong solution be changed? Because the draft for this is already in Parliament's proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U49	Thank you. It's almost triple time for you guys. At the beginning of Question Time, I asked the members of the Riigikogu to stick to this two minutes. This is not a time for speaking, it is a time for asking questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U50	Thank you. All you are raising is the subject of a wider social debate. In my opinion, it was quite thoroughly answered by the Minister of Finance, at least in relation to pensions. We do not believe that we should take such a universal approach, i.e. essentially punish the poorest and reward the wealthier. So, of course, this is the result of a certain political decision. If, during the elections, these things are made clear to voters that you see the rich get richer, but the poor get poorer or at least not getting richer, and the voters support this ideology, it is their choice. But we certainly do not intend to take such steps in the government now. As regards the regulation of labour shortages or labour shortages with taxes, yes, there is certainly a window of opportunity here. I can also give an example of how we have now contributed to ending the flow of labour in the police and continuing the work of people who have reached the pre-retirement age, with certain tax policy steps, but these opportunities are still limited. We do not see such universal solutions here; they are still linked to innovation, but not to the introduction of cheap labour, which, in addition to everything, will be overlooked as to whether these people are legally staying in Estonia or not. I recall that last week, a few dozen illegally employed people from Ukraine were taken off the construction site. We certainly want to establish ourselves as a country here. And in this sense, I say that these fiscal measures to reduce labour shortages are certainly possible, but their impact is not universal, but limited. As far as parental benefits are concerned, once again, this is the subject of such a very wide-ranging social debate, where there is a view expressed in a very strong position that children will not be given birth with money. We don't really think so. I think that the steps taken by the Reform Party's governments, parental benefits and so on, have certainly produced a positive result. We think it's possible to move on from here. But we all know that all such social policy measures have a very clear, often quite concrete, price list. Here we must look at how we maintain the budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U51	Ladies and gentlemen, Now you can see that if a member of the Riigikogu goes well beyond the prescribed time, and if the minister does so, and I let it happen, then that means that you will get one less question from this Chamber at the end of Question Time. I don't think that's what you want. So let this experiment be such a reminder that we're still trying to hold on to order. Now there's an opportunity to ask a question on Taavi Clothes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U52	Thank you. Good chairman of the sitting! I would like to grasp this line of speech and ask you also to pass on to the leadership of your group that you really are ready to cooperate in restoring the joint declaration of the spouses, and we can then also discuss with your group's leadership here in Parliament how best to work together, so that tens of thousands of families across Estonia can return to a sensible situation. Here's what I'm gonna ask. If it has now become apparent that the tax system created by the same Prime Minister of the previous government, but by the previous government, has been very painful for working pensioners, pregnant mothers, married people and, for example, teachers, doctors, etc., that it has made their tax burden greater, as well as a number of details of declaration more technically complex than before, would you be prepared to discuss in the spirit of parliamentary cooperation that perhaps such a mistake was made with the introduction of such a tax hump, and we could return to uniform income tax, where the tax-free minimum is at least EUR 500? Would your party be willing to consider such a change?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U53	Thank you. Well, I can't forget the past here, either, and that's when we were sitting there in the back benches of that line with the current Minister of Finance and we were very critical of the tax changes at the time. It's true. We were not supporters of these changes then, nor were we in the coalition negotiations. We raised questions about possible changes to the new government's initiatives. But, as the Minister of Finance said earlier, in the coalition agreement we reached a balance in the fact that this coalition is not going to make any tax changes. We will not change tax policy. We all know that in the case of coalition governments, all parties need to compromise on many issues, and in our case this was one compromise. In principle, of course, we believe that good proposals must always be considered, that good proposals must be negotiated and consulted. If the Reform Party comes up with very good proposals, then perhaps we will be able to present these good proposals and also recommend them to our coalition partners. So in that sense, I'm sure we're ready to talk to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U54	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Urmas Kruuse, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I am very pleased that you allowed the Minister to lift the cup from the chair to the table. But I remember this big debate about possible slogans and keywords, and now I notice that this cup has the EKRE symbols on it. Do you think, or does the board think, they're going under the ban that we all agreed on together? Or is it the next time ministers bring a cup, they can use their own symbolism?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U56	Thank you. Well, what can I say to that? I have come to meet your own wishes. I didn't see what was on that coffee cup. If it is now your wish that the minister should put this cup back under the table and hide it, I will meet that request. Please, Mr. Secretary, hide this cup of coffee! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U57	But let's go to more serious issues now, and the next question is definitely a serious one. Asks Katri Raik and answers Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U58	Good minister! I will not ask you about oil shale and Ida-Viru County for the first time. Last week, ministers Taavi Aas and Jaak Aab visited Ida-Virumaa and both said the same thing you said recently that there would be no quick Põxit, yet the ministers did not have the specific answers that those present expected. And I will now ask you, as Minister of Finance, very specifically. First of all, is and when is the oil factory coming? Second, is and when will the refinery come?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U59	Thank you. Yes, I can repeat that again here, too, that some kind of Põxitis, where we simply close our industry, both in the mines and in the power generation in Narva, as a result of a political decision, is certainly not going to do so. On the contrary, this government has taken a number of decisions, given the rapidly changing political environment, so that our economic interests, regional policy, social policy interests and needs, as well as energy security, are not affected. In particular, the decision of the refinery requires that the quantities and distribution of CO2 quotas for the next 10 years be agreed in the European Union, as this is important for oil production. And not only quantity and distribution, but also how they can be used, because oil, say oil shale oil, is an export commodity, and not only for Estonia, but for Europe. He's going to the so-called international market. It has been agreed that companies competing on the international market would not pay for CO2 in this way, otherwise we would simply have taxed ourselves out of the trade in the rest of the world and would not be of any use. Somewhere else, they're making more dirty. I believe that this decision will come soon. This is relatively parallel to the discussions on the European Union budget, and we know that this time frame is not very precise or in place. You can't point the finger at the calendar here and say that by then it'll definitely be there, but we're assuming it could be done in half this year. Oil production plant, the new oil production plant of Eesti Energia. The decision has been made. The capital contribution is also available in the budget. This is a matter of the coming months when this activity will proceed, but a fundamental decision has been made: the oil production plant will come to Eesti Energia. Now perhaps a bit more widely, which we have also thought about in relation to the production of oil shale oil and oil shale electricity. I spoke to the management of Eesti Energia just this morning that we are placing a great deal of emphasis on finding and testing new technology, for example, in Narva Power Plants to catch CO2 so that it is the carbon neutral electricity we produce there. The question is, what kind of technology would fit in there, how expensive it is and where the funding comes from, but that's all we're doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U60	Specific question, Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U61	Good minister! The second question, however, is from another area, as you can imagine. The Special Committee on Corruption has invited you to its meeting since the beginning of December, the first time for the meeting of 9 December, then I have tried to exchange letters with you on 11 December, then on 20 January, most recently on 10 February. You have never answered me in person, but it doesn't matter. Paragraph 2 (1) (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu provides that the Riigikogu Commission has the right to request a member of the Government of the Republic to attend a meeting of the committee. In essence, it gives you an obligation to participate. You have pointed out in our private conversation that you expect to have approved the agenda for the meeting, but since December I have also written to you that please give yourself the right time and then we will confirm the agenda. This is not the order of the committee chairman, but the committee has also voted and is eagerly waiting for you on a special committee so that we can discuss Aidu wind farm. I'm not asking if you're coming or not, I'm asking what date you're coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U62	Thank you. Yes, in the case of the Commission, it is necessary to clarify, indeed, what our Rules of Procedure say or, more specifically, the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. The difference is what the chairman or chairwoman of the committee does, thinks and decides in person or what the Commission collectively decides. The Commission has not collectively wanted to see the Minister of Finance. The Commission has never collectively supported such an item on the agenda. And if I remember correctly, he has voted it off the agenda a few times. This last time you are talking about was an information point submitted to the Commission, where no feedback, decision or vote was organised by the members of the Commission. This, of course, can be interpreted as being a consensus-approved position in the Commission. After all, this was reported to the Commission in such a way that during the meetings of this spring session you would also like to talk to the Minister of Finance. And during the spring session, I'm sure you'll get the finance minister's commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U63	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U64	Thank you. Since the questioner took the subject to Aidu's wind farm, one of the reasons why you have also been invited to go before the committee, where I would certainly recommend you as a minister, is that, of course, if Parliament calls, it is imperative for every member of the government, at least in moral terms. But I remember your quote back then to a journalist where you said, "One of the state secrets I've heard... 'and then it touched, if I'm not mistaken, the clock blood radar mode. I don't know if this secret is true, and I don't know whether the clock's radar mode at that point in time was a state secret or not. And if I did, I certainly couldn't talk about it in this Chamber, because it would be a state secret. Here's my question. Public disclosure of state secrets, also knowingly the disclosure of state secrets, is punishable by criminal law in Estonia. Has the administration of the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for keeping state secrets in Estonia, spoken to you about this and have you made your own conclusions so that such matters cannot be repeated?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U65	Oh, here's all the stuff like mash and cabbages. Firstly, of course, the Minister has both a moral and a legal obligation to come to the Commission if the Commission wishes to see him. The Commission has not taken any such formal decisions, apart from the fact that a few weeks ago, the chairman of the committee announced at the end of the meeting that he had the wish to invite the Minister of Finance to the Commission's interview. Let us not confuse the fact that the chairman of the committee has some personal wishes and initiatives that he does not agree with the Commission. This should not be a good procedure and practice of the Riigikogu. But that's it. Of course, I finally understand that if the Commission wishes to do so, not just the chairman of the committee wants to talk to me, but the Commission wants to do so at an official meeting, then I will, of course, go. I don't have a problem with that. As far as state secrets are concerned, I don't know what conclusions are to be drawn from here. I think the great moment you had on my quote collapsed pretty quickly and didn't get anywhere. This is something you should know better than most people, because you have also had access to and contact with state secrets, that we have clear procedures, how, when, which signatures, and when state secrets can be seen in enclosed spaces. I didn't sign any documents like that anywhere so I could see it. And when I talk about rumors in the city, gossip can be spread by everyone. But if you think about it for a second, there are two options. One option is that we have a big secret that nothing national defence is working, and in that case it is a huge scandal and the public should also know that. Or the other option is that it still works and there hasn't been any leaking of state secrets. I don't know which option you prefer. I would prefer that things work for us, but I also prefer that if these things don't work, they should work, and there should be no cover-up in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U66	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. Yes, Katri Raik, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U67	Let me get this straight. When a person is called in an answer, he has the right to speak?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U68	No.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U69	No?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U70	No, I'm sorry, it's not like that. If the reports mention someone's name or their views in concrete terms, there is an opportunity, but this does not take place in a round of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U71	Let's move on, Question 7. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U72	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The question concerns the document 'Estonian Language Development Plan up to 2035', which is remembered to be the task given to the government by the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Isamaa Group. I would like to know what your position and the position of the Ministers of the Fatherland will be with regard to its future proceedings. I have the impression that you are still worried about the Estonian language, unlike many others in the government. At the end of 2018, the Fatherland said that they had four major objectives in protecting the Estonian language. Most importantly, education must be translated into Estonian. You criticized the Centre Party and the EKRE for my great pleasure that they did not want it. Then on, support for Estonian-language science, support for Estonian-language higher education and service in Estonian. Now, in this document, which has been discussed in the government and also in the Riigikogu committees, the same most important topic, i.e. the Estonian-language transition of education, has been said that education will be transferred to the Estonian language by mostly 2035. In fact, this means that it can be said that already the majority has been overtaken. In essence, it is a waiver from the transition to the Estonian language. What are you going to do about it? Perhaps it would be even wiser to abandon this scheme in this form, because then at least the status quo will remain, otherwise we will make the situation of the Estonian language worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U73	Thank you. Honourable questioner! The question is enormously important, one of the most important things that can be presented here in the Riigikogu at all, the state of the Estonian language and the survival of the language and culture of our people at all. As far as I know, the Ministry of Education and Research is currently preparing for the development of a national development plan. This was the last week or the week before, when I signed the letter of coordination of the Ministry of Culture, where I made a number of proposals that should be included in this document, and now that the Government approves this intention, it is on the basis of the development plan that will come to the Riigikogu, both the Commission and the Chamber. And then, on the basis of the opinions expressed in the Riigikogu, it will be discussed again in the government whether the original development plan document should be amended or not. According to the current law, this type of development plan is approved at a government meeting. So this development plan, developed on the basis of a ten-point memorandum adopted by the Riigikogu, is now at the stage when the government is going to deal with it and then during this year, I do not know exactly what these date dates are there, the Ministry of Education and Research will have to do more detailed work and then put the real development plan on the table. There is no completed document at this time. But the many principles you mentioned are important to the Fatherland, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U74	Eerik-Niles Kross, clarification question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U75	I would point out that, as I understand it, it is probably agreed in the coalition that it is not possible to make the transition to education in Estonian. So I don't want you to start pushing it through the don-quijos somehow. But the question is that it may be possible to agree, in this Chamber there are voices to do so, so that this development plan does not deal with this issue at all. Because otherwise we create a situation where we give the impression, at least we give the message to society that it will not be transferred until 2035.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U76	Luckily, one of those moments when I can take the opposite view. I think that this language development plan should also concern the transition of the basic school part of the education system to the Estonian language. Yes, it is true that the educational development plan will still come separately. At the moment, the Ministry of Education and Research is probably planning to address changes to the education system, although I also see the school system as a level of language development, development and language development, and I would therefore prefer that there be references to the education system in the language development plan. So I think it's the opposite of you. I just realized the kind of warning signal you gave me to make a better decision not to make than to make a bad decision. This government coalition has agreed that the education system will be transferred to the Estonian language of instruction, so segregation cannot continue, there are different tactics, whether to do so step by step, etc. In any event, this deadline is indeed not within the framework of the age of the current government coalition. This means that there is no final date during the period of this government, and it is probably not possible to fix this deadline for the full transition to the Estonian language in the very short term in the documents at the moment, but a move in this direction has been agreed. This year's budgetary resources also provide additional resources for the first stage of comprehensive school, kindergarten and language immersion programme, which means that increasing the volume of Estonian in Russian-language comprehensive schools is taking a step-by-step approach to their education. So the actions are agreed, the end date is not really fixed. But I think that the language development plan should also focus on educational issues, because without touching the education system, what language are you still defending or developing here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U77	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U78	Dear Speaker! Dear Minister, I am also sincerely happy to watch you work on behalf of your own party for the well-being and durability of the Estonian language, because, knowingly, without language, we have nothing else without culture and no culture. The Eerik-Niles Kross, on his second question, asked quite a lot about the content of my question. This same development plan and sentence have largely changed to Estonian-language school education, teaching in schools and kindergartens funded by the state and local governments takes place in Estonian. And at this meeting of the Committee on Culture, this wording left a number of issues flickering in the air, the seriousness of which I was convinced in the same discussion with the Minister for Education, who did not give explicit assurances to alleviate doubts. What exactly do you disagree with the coalition that you have not been able to shake this plan or write down it or support the plan of others who have come up with a plan of some kind themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U79	Thank you for a very good question. We agree that there must be a transition to Estonian-language education in Estonian schools. We do not agree on whether to fix a deadline or what it might be. So the fixing of the final date is not recorded in the current documents within a year, but the process for its preparation, activities and funding is under way. Perhaps then, let's say, the intensity of the target varies from one private to another, but the government is working to ensure that the level of learning in Estonian is increased and that the entire basic school eventually becomes Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U80	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U81	The next question is question No 8, which is presented by Heljo Pikhof, and which is answered by the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U82	Thank you. Dear Minister, For a number of health issues, be it vaccination, dental care, pregnancy or abortion decisions, the consent of the treatment and procedure shall be given by the minor if the doctor considers the child to be mature for such decisions. This means that he is capable of considering pros and cons responsibly. Now, if you look at it from here, the exception is the psychiatric treatment of children, where the law requires the consent of their parents in addition to the consent of the child. It is likely that considered minors will use the possibility of keeping psychiatric assistance from parents secret only in exceptional circumstances, i.e. in particular when the child is a victim of domestic violence or abuse or when the parent himself or herself has mental health problems which would not be in the best interests of the child. There are also cases where one or both parents are categorically opposed to the child's psychiatric assistance, despite the young person's own desire for help and the psychiatrist's assessment of this is medically justified. On 3 December, the Social Democrats gave the procedure of the Riigikogu the right to decide on the treatment, if necessary involving a reliable adult. Soon it's been three months, but the bill has not yet reached the second reading of the big hall, allegedly because of the opposition of the EKRE. I ask you to answer if this is true and if it is not, because of whose opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U83	I find it a little difficult to respond to this because I have not been familiar with this draft. I really don't know. I should consult with the leaders of our group to get my picture straight. I can't just shoot off my hip and tell you why we don't support and what the reasons are. From what you have said, I have a number of questions, but it is possible that these questions could lead to some sort of solution in the course of the draft debate. I have to admit, I am not ready to answer that question right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U84	Heljo Pikhof, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U85	Thank you. Dear Minister, But as a matter of fact, it was set up. I was hoping you'd prepare.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U86	I didn't understand if it was a question. As such, you see, we do indeed have a problem in society, and this is not just a problem in Estonian society with the fact that people have been disbalanced. This is in many respects also due to the very ideological division of society as such. This is undoubtedly reflected in families, schools, and friendships. And human tolerance is different. There are those who run all sideways down like water on a goose's back. There are people who are unable to stay immune and become unbalanced. This is reflected in their behaviour and is a wider problem in society. I do not believe that this can be resolved by any legislative proposal as a whole. I do believe that the subject, as such, needs to be systematically processed in order to cover Estonia as a whole with a network of assistance. This network cannot only be medical and it must certainly be available to schoolchildren. I know that students in schools are currently able to go to psychologists, I know it is being used very much, I know it will help in some cases, but I am not convinced that this is enough in a state of social imbalance as a whole. All of this is not just about Estonia, but about many countries and societies, not only about Western society, but also about others, the world is in a very difficult state of upheaval. We in this small Estonia will certainly be able to react more quickly and flexibly. I think we need that reaction, but I don't see a direct magic wand here either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U87	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U88	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister! I'm confused, to put it mildly. I have understood that the Government of the Republic is reviewing the drafts and the positions that come about sending to the Riigikogu are consensual. This bill is pending and has also been presented with the Government's position. So I would have thought you'd be more familiar with the subject. But on the other hand, it's a good thing you referred to the possibility of getting psychological help at school. Because, in fact, we know that less than 40% of schools have a psychological service available, and in the process of negotiating the state budget, we have repeatedly stressed the need to finance the school psychologists' professional year. It is true that only a psychiatrist cannot help people, and this network must be much wider, especially an informal family network that should help children. Nevertheless, the country has a whole range of things that it can do and where we have not actually found enough resources. The state budget law is currently being revised and planned for the next few years. Is there any reason to hope this year that the school psychologists' professional year will be funded by 2021?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U89	Colleagues have now reminded me that we have indeed discussed this draft. And our opposition was due to one very important thing. This further reduces parental rights, parental control over children's activities, children's leisure time, the direction and control of children's decisions. We could not support it once again in this version: in this particular version. True. Now, as far as the government of the Republic is concerned, yes, it will be reviewed, but I think you should also know that the evaluation will be carried out by the responsible ministry. There are dozens and dozens of documents, drafts and statements going through our desk all the time, so I'm sorry that I just didn't get together right away. That is why I also replied that I was not prepared to make an assessment. But since colleagues have helped me a little, I have now explained the reason for our opposition. But I agree with your theme extension in principle, and no one in our government is arguing about that either. The problems are great, the problems are deep, the problems are in many respects linked to the change in life as a whole, the fact that individualism, including the use of smart devices, has probably exceeded certain limits of social tolerance. How do we reverse it, or how do we adjust it? Well, I don't think there's a prescription in this hall or anyone anywhere. That's not a prescription right now. But it's definitely growing out of here, it's like a Lego, where a piece by piece is being built into a problem that's getting bigger and bigger. I fully agree that this issue needs to be addressed more widely in society, but I do not think that it should be on the table of the government alone. This should certainly be the subject of a much wider spectrum approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U90	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U91	The next question is question No 9, which is presented by Liina Kersna and answered by the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to address you as former experienced Minister of Education. As we know, the Ministry of Education and Research decided to close the Krabi School in Võrumaa, where nearly 40 children are studying, with barely a month's notice. Most of them were unable to cope with learning problems, problems with fulfillment and problems with relationships in previous schools. Today, if only a few days remain until school closure, according to parents, 40% of children still do not have a new place to study. The decree of the Minister for Education constantly emphasises that the right to quality education is a fundamental right which can be protected as part of public policy. Although the Ministry promised to find a new study place suitable for each child, this promise has not been fulfilled today. It seems to me that before we close a school, the Ministry could rather be a supporter and help correct the mistakes found. However, if it is decided to close the school, it should not be done at such short notice. You have also spoken openly about the closure of Krabby School. How do you feel about your colleague acting responsibly, closing one school at such short notice and putting nearly 40 children and their education in a very vague situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U93	Thank you for a good question. Yes, I think my colleague acted responsibly within the limits of the information he had. Speaking of what concerns me about this matter, the same thing that is not sure that other school places have been found for all children. In such a case, it is really important whether their continuation there, for example, until the end of the academic year, would have been a greater accident than the fact that no personal approach and solution will now be found for them. I hope the Ministry of Education and Research will find these solutions within the remaining days. Yesterday I had a conversation with the chancellor of the Ministry, who says he is, I might be wrong, but I think 21 students are already on the list of other schools. Supposedly for five students their parents, let's say either they refuse to cooperate or they disagreed with the proposed options. There's a job of redeployment. Yes, it is not easy to move children who have already been caught in some past environments to other third places. But I hope that the specialists and the school will cooperate in the interests of the children.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U94	Thank you. Liina Kersna, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U95	Thank you very much. The Minister states in his letter on closing the school that any continuation of the company's activities in carrying out the teaching would harm the interests of the students and their parents. At the same time, 37 parents of Krabi School students have turned to the President of the Republic of Estonia, the Chancellor of Justice and the Minister of Education, expressing, on the one hand, thanks to the staff of the Krabi School, because they saw their children actually starting learning and receiving support, and, on the other hand, worried that the school was decided to close at such short notice, putting them in a very uncomfortable and stressful situation. Some of the children who have been found to have a place go back to the same school where they came with their problems, and some stay homeschooled. Indeed, as far as I know, 40% of these children are still in a vague situation. However, I ask whether you think the Ministry of Education and Research has been up to its task, actually creating more confusion than clarity. Because in fact, for example, the school could have been closed from the beginning of the new academic year, giving families enough time to adapt to the new situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U96	Thank you for your question. I tried to express my attitude in the previous response. I don't know all the aspects, probably there were shortcomings in the school's activities. Empathy is certainly the best advisor in such situations and bureaucratic demands would perhaps only come in the second order. I hope that these negotiations will be conducted in such a way that the best solutions for children in particular are taken into account. As far as I am concerned, the Ministry does not see as the best solutions those existing or former schools that have come out of trouble or problems and are looking for better solutions. As is always the case in such cases, everything happens for a large part of the children far away from their homes, and the next place is still farther or far away in the same way. It's not easy. So here I wish everyone involved a calm mind. I hope that when these signatures are collected and parents and school staff have something to say about the positions of the Ministry of Education and Research, they will also say this in a balanced and children's interest. It's not a good thing to fight over kids.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U97	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U98	Thank you, chairman of the meeting. Dear Minister, I now turn to Tõnis Lukas, the former Minister for Education and the current Minister for Culture, and I appreciate both sides of the Minister's contribution to both education and cultural life, so I will continue with my colleague Liina Kersna. I know that the local community was actually very supportive of the Krabby School teachers and also of the students. I am certainly not questioning the shortcomings of the ministry's supervision. But the question arises as to whether it should be not only learning outcomes that are important here, but also the sense of security of those difficult students who were very well managed at this school and their parents. That is why I am asking: was there an information exchange and debate on this issue in the government? Did all members of the government agree to such an unexpected sudden decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U99	Thank you. There has been no discussion in the government on this issue and there is no debate in such cases. They are the competence of a particular minister, in this case the competence of the Minister of Education and Research. Surveillance was in there for a long time. These different phases have also been introduced to the public. There may certainly have been a number of other problems, such as the lack of interest in the topic of a larger municipality resulting from the merger of municipalities or other forms of interest. There is certainly also the property question of the school building, who owns it, how it can be managed, and how many other satellite themes, perhaps complex, can really not be called all educational issues. Therefore, it can only be expected that educational officials could give full consideration to this situation. I also expect that we should avoid a situation where, because of such institutional changes, children fall out of the education system. I very much hope that there will be no such thing in this case, and I very much hope that educational officials, as well as local and school people, will do everything to prevent such things from happening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U100	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U101	The next question is number 10, it is submitted by Jaak Juske and answered by the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U102	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr. Minister! Your party's official youth association The Blue Awakening held a conference last Sunday. The Minister of Finance Helme and also the member of the Riigikogu Kaalep, which is all very nice, then received the floor of the Deputy Head of the Native Finnish Youth Association, who was proud to announce that he was a fascist. This was followed by a stormy applause in the hall. Mr Helme, you are here today as Deputy Prime Minister, and so I am going to give you the opportunity to clearly condemn the fact that our members of the government and our MEPs are taking part in conferences that praise fascism, and I am going to give you the opportunity to condemn the spread of fascist ideas, particularly among young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U103	First of all, I have already answered the questions of this kind, Mr President. Secondly, you are much more prone to questioning than your predecessors from the Reform Party, who took the entire quote from this Finnish youth politician. However, the entire quote gives a completely different light and another emphasis. And the emphasis is that the Finnish youth politician says he is an ethno-nationalist and only lastly that he is also a fascist. He had some other definitions of who he was. So that gives it a much broader approach. And if we look at it in a broader view, it's not as demonic as you're trying to show it here. But as I said in response to the Reform Party, it is possible that I would have gotten up on it and left the room. In any case, I have always said very clearly on previous occasions in this Chamber that I do not support any totalitarian regime, no totalitarian ideology. To draw conclusions from this one word about this conference is, by the way, unfair, biased and with a very clear ideological charge. The conference was good, it talked about the fate of the peoples of Europe, the future, the problems and proposed solutions. So, for the sake of a single failed expression and word to seal this whole conference, as if it were something terrible, the whole of Europe, the Estonian people and the political elite, it is somewhat exaggeration. So what else can I say -- I have already answered -- I have condemned this particular ideological position. I don't see why I should do it again, put on sackcloth, shake ash on my head, kneel, crawl into Canossa, or otherwise apologize for being there. I'm not sorry I exist. I think that all things need to be viewed in a broader context. But you're not doing it, you're doing it in a narrow context, and that's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U104	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U105	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister's replacement! I have not asked you to condemn or to apologise for your existence, but to have fascists at your party's official youth conference. When a person says he's a fascist, you can't understand one way or another. You can understand that a person is a fascist. And this has also been clearly condemned by the same group of young people in the Native Finnish Party, who have now excluded both this citizen and many others from their membership. Here's the question. Mr Helme, Deputy Prime Minister, do you see that in Estonia, too, one of the organisers of this event should be responsible if there are people at their events who proudly consider themselves a fascist?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U106	You know, fascists are socialists. Yeah, socialists are fascists. Let's take this historical definition, go back to Italy, and then we get the right definition. So you have more to do with fascism than I do. There's no point in arguing with me! I'm a historian like you. Don't argue with me! You have the floor, now I have the floor. Don't argue with me!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U107	Please don't scream in the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U108	You may have one more chance, so take it easy, don't interrupt. That's one. Secondly, we are talking about such a thing as political responsibility. This particular Finnish youth politician, who is not an Estonian youth politician, does not belong to our party's youth organisation, has already assumed his political responsibility. He has been excluded from the party, so he has assumed this political responsibility and has been punished. I also told the Reform Party that we do not have such a principle of neo-confucian collective responsibility. We are a society built on individuals and on the principle of individual responsibility. Individual responsibility lies with this particular politician, but not with our party. We can never say with 100% certainty when someone comes and says something that nobody likes. That is not possible, it would be a totalitarian society. If you want a totalitarian society, then our opinions are fundamentally divided. We have condemned this particular use of words; this particular politician has borne his political responsibility. And we do not have the principle of collective responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U109	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U110	Thank you. When you come back to young people and children and to the law on psychiatric assistance, it became clear that you do not support helping children. How do you imagine that the victim of domestic violence, who is a child, or a sexually abused child, or a parent with mental health problems, how does the child approach his or her parent to seek psychiatric assistance or the doctor asks his or her consent to the parent whom the child does not trust? Actually, it's really sad to hear that. And it is not possible to make extensions here that parents are not deprived of their rights. Usually, doctors always involve parents in making decisions. And a doctor is only entitled not to include a parent when a minor child is mature enough to decide. My question is, why do you not want to help your children?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U111	I've used the expression "functional thinking ability" in this hall before. If you were to use functional thinking ability, you wouldn't draw such random conclusions and incriminating conclusions about me. Please use your functional thinking ability. Signe Riisalo I answered quite a long and wide range of school psychologists. Now think of one thing, please! Think and turn your mind on if you listen to me. We live in networks. Kids go to school. Children have a family in the broader sense of grandfathers, uncles, sisters, brothers. We live in networks. It's not like nobody's ever gonna know when someone's got a problem. It's not like nobody sees a candy man luring anybody. It's not like that. And these networks need to be involved so that children, schoolchildren, if necessary, can receive help, be it psychological counselling, be it psychiatric assistance, be it perhaps also removal from a violent family and everything else that may be necessary. But it cannot be as the left imagines that we are going to adopt some laws and drive over people, that people are like things that can be moved from one drawer to another, pushed from one institution to another, pushed out of home to substitute homes or orphanages, or whatever the name of these institutions is. It can't be like that. Everything has to be humane, and that is the humanity we want to ensure. But your bill, as far as I can remember, didn't guarantee that humanity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U112	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U113	The next question is No 11, Annely Akkermann will present it to Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. On 4 March, Estonian folk musicians will organise a support concert at the Estonian National Museum in order to preserve the Estonian Folklore Archives. At the end of January, 122 organisations and collectives made public visits to finance Estonian science and Estonian research. I quote one sentence: 'Estonian language, culture, history, society, nature will not be studied or documented by anyone else for us, and the Estonian state will have a constitutional obligation to ensure the means of continuing research in this field. ' It is clear that the Estonian Folklore Archives is a key institution for the survival of Estonian culture, one of the DNA holders of Estonian national culture. Many musicians, poets, creators, scientists, teachers, and folklore enthusiasts are behind this statement. How do you, Minister of Culture, see the current funding of the Estonian Folklore Archives and what steps can the Ministry of Culture take and have made sure that the Estonian Folklore Archives survive?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U115	Thank you. It would be better to start with this good question, thank you for that. From a more general frame. The R &amp; D development plan in Estonia provides, among other things, that it has been emphasised in many chapters as the first point for the development of Estonian language and culture research. The funding gap states that it also needs to be adequately financed. I think that if you have followed the recent scientific debate, you will notice, as I do, that science is considered to be the driving force of innovation and the development of a research-intensive economy, but it is increasingly said that it also has functions that hold together the general society and that make sense of culture. I think that paying attention to humanitarianity has indeed been a little slowed down in society. This worship of the scientific economic engine has probably led to the lack of support programmes for Estonian humanitarianism and its dignified place in the funding of science. Now, if you go to the topics of the Literary Museum, there are a number of them. The Literary Museum has an archive library, an Estonian cultural history archive and a department of folklore alongside the archives of folklore. Indeed, if research funding was already lost, a large part of the basic funding related to these same science group grants will also disappear in the coming years. The Literary Museum is in trouble, as are a number of other research institutions dealing with humanitarian matters. We should think more about the fact that the humanities method is very different from, for example, natural science methods, but it is more individual, it takes time. And right now, there's a situation where our scientists are publishing short articles to compete. But Jaan Kross, whose anniversary last week we held a monograph on the place of the Estonian scientists, has not yet come. Fortunately, the Finns are honored by Juhani Salokannel! He's done it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U116	Thank you. I thank all those who ask, and I thank the ministers for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U117	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 6th working week session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U118	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group hereby initiates and delivers a draft law amending the Income Tax Act. The purpose of this draft is to restore a simple and fair personal income tax system. The amendment will create a situation in two years with a monthly tax-free rate of EUR 500 for everyone, i.e. EUR 6000 per year. A 20% tax rate will apply to the excess, regardless of the income earned and the increase in income. The current regime provides that, from an income of EUR 1200, the tax-free rate will start to decline rapidly and reach zero at the income of EUR 2100. This is a range of income to which a growing number of working people are moving with their incomes and who are therefore taxed at a higher level. In the current tax-free system, we have come to the point that police workers with minimum wages, teachers in general education schools and cultural workers who cannot use 500 euros of tax-free income and whose tax-free income is cut. The aim of the draft is to set a tax-free rate of EUR 500 for all and to do so in two years. The phase shift is necessary to dispel the cost to the state budget. The implementation of the law will lead to a reduction in tax revenue. During the transition period, the range of higher taxation will remain for one year, but it will shift away. The income range for the transitional year would be EUR 1700.2600 per month, or EUR 20400. Next year, however, we would remove the range of higher taxation once and for all, so that the tax-free rate no longer depends on the amount of annual revenue. We are restoring a fair tax system that does not penalise working people with more taxation! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U119	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities decided to initiate a bill to amend the Defence Forces Order Act and the Chancellor of Justice Act. Ladies and gentlemen, You all remember that the Supreme Court declared the Order of the Defence Forces Act passed in the Riigikogu on 29 May 2019 to be incompatible with the Constitution by the decision of 19 December of last year, and we would now like to remedy this deficiency. The Commission started its work with a joint meeting with the National Defence Commission, followed by the involvement of all the parties involved and, including at the meeting of the Commission on 26 February, decided to initiate a draft law by consensus. The principle is that the more intensive the violation of fundamental rights resulting from the discreet processing of personal data, the more concrete and effective the guarantees guaranteeing compliance with the obligation to provide information. Rights and control mechanisms should go hand in hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U121	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted two draft laws and the Management Board processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Now I'm gonna make the announcements. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up the Nature Conservation Support Group, the convener being Peeter Ernits. Incoming check, please! 92 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, there are no 9 members.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U122	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft Act 123 on the ratification of the 2007 Convention on the Removal of International Ship wrecks, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Kravtšenko, member of the Committee on the Environment, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U123	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft was completed in this Chamber on 27 January. The deadline for amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 10 February. No amendments have been received. The Commission discussed this draft for the second time on 17 February. Peeter Ernits, Heiki Kranich, Igor Kravtšenko or I, Siim Pohlak, Üllar Saaremäe and Mart Võrguship took part in the Commission's work. There was no Yoko Alender and no Jevgeni Ossinovski. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 26 February, to propose that the second reading be closed and to propose a final vote on the draft. I would ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U124	Thank you. Dear waitress, You have questions too. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U125	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'm going to look at the second-reading materials we have on the table here, and I'm going to be honest with you, it's kind of a lousy piece of material on the side that doesn't count what the contents of this bill are. Would you be so kind as to speak up with a few words about what this bill brings with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U126	In fact, the President of the sitting has already partially answered your question, my good colleague. The subject is the ratification of the Nairobi International Convention on the Removal of Shipwrecks.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U127	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U128	Good manager! Good waitress! When I read the explanatory statement, I understand that two technical clarifications have been made and they have been underlined. In one place, the word "Republic" is added. What was the word before? The law adopted states 'The Republic of Estonia applies' and 'The Republic of Estonia' has changed something. Can you tell me what was technically changed here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U129	Well, apparently there was only the word 'Estonia' at first and the word 'Estonia' was missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U130	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U131	I'll ask you again. In the first paragraph, the word 'Convention' is included. Was it missing before, just like after 'Estonia' was missing before 'Estonia'?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U132	Right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U133	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 123 and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 123 on the ratification of the 2007 Convention on the Removal of International Ship wrecks, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U134	Today's second item is draft 148 of the Law on the Amendment of the Commercial Code, initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Government of the Republic, which combines drafts 101 and 117, second reading. I ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U135	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to remind you what the bill is. If Estonian company owners wish to sell their own company shares today, then everyone, both the owners of the company and new investors, must come to a single notary in Estonia at the same time, even if there are dozens of shareholders, and even if, for example, there are several foreign venture capital funds among buyers. This bill would release these people from this obligation if they so wished and make it easier for start-ups in Estonia to raise money. Similar rules apply, for example, in Finland and Latvia, but also in England and the USA. To solve the problem, the Committee on Legal Affairs launched a draft of 101 last October and then a similar draft of 117 was initiated by the Government of the Republic, which was last December. Both drafts were sent to first reading and the first reading was also completed in the large hall for both drafts. The deadline for tabling amendments was 11 February. No amendments to the drafts have been tabled between the first and second readings, but the views of the various parties were received by way of involvement. The Committee on Legal Affairs has dealt with these two drafts together. We have discussed these at two meetings of the Commission, on 13 and 17 February, and already at the first meeting we decided to put these drafts together. This possibility exists between the first and second readings, it requires agreement from the initiators, and we got it. So two drafts became one, bill 148. On the basis of a draft submitted by the government. The contents of the two drafts overlapd, but there were also differences. We have sought a compromise between these differences in the Commission, and we have found it. To this end, we have tabled four amendments by the Commission. I have already talked about the first proposal: we proposed to merge the two drafts. Secondly, the Government Bill stipulated that the company can only carry out notarival transactions if the company's share capital is at least EUR 20000, but the second Bill lacks a capital requirement. The compromise was EUR 10000 and, according to the same amendment, part of the disposal transactions must have been made in writing, i.e. an oral agreement is not enough. The third amendment is quite technical, the content of which is that, in addition to buying, notarivabu transactions can also be made to pledge shares. And the fourth amendment: we changed the date of entry into force of the law, which became 1 August 2020. During the discussion we have reached a common opinion that the draft 148 improves the competitiveness of the Estonian economic environment and brings more foreign investment to Estonia. The Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously decided to send the draft to the large hall by today, 26 February, and, when the second reading is completed, to make a third reading on 10 March. The waitress was me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U136	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U137	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Maybe you could explain a little bit about what problem we're solving now and how we're protecting the interests of all the shareholders of the private limited company. I'm an entrepreneur, I have small shareholders. How will they be informed? Do they get a registered letter saying that something is being transferred or bought? How can they let you know they don't want to come to the notary? And where does the 10,000 border come from? I remember in 2017 we did the so-called Uber Law. We thought very well that nothing would be broken. But today it has become clear that entrepreneurs are smart and are somehow trying to go around the corner. Explain a little to us so that we can understand what we are actually deciding here and what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U138	Yeah, I'd love to. The aim of the draft is that notarivabu deals can only be carried out if all shareholders so wish. To this end, the statutes must be amended and each shareholder must give his or her consent. The EUR 10000 limit has been introduced to make this decision very aware. In other words, with a normal share capital of EUR 2500, this amendment to the statute cannot be made. This also applies, for example, to shell companies, where, if the share capital is smaller, you still have to come to the notary. The problem is that, for example, many companies in the IT sector have options programmes and, as a result, there are indeed a good number of shareholders. There may be dozens, in some cases hundreds. And all these people have to come to one place at the same time so that the company can engage, for example, in foreign investments. This law makes it possible, if these people are willing to make this contract without a notary. Today's situation is that our neighbours have the possibility of notary-free transactions, which means that an Estonian start-up who wants to raise money abroad by hedge funds will be able to move abroad. And this is a direct threat to our economic growth. Some companies do. Our aim is to ensure that as many companies as possible remain in Estonia. It's a win-win for everyone in our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U139	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U140	Thank you. Good waitress! Aivar Kokk, in passing, touched on this issue, but if the compromise of the Committee on Legal Affairs was that it must be written consent, what form should this written consent be? I understand that in Estonia we can talk about digitally signed documents, but in many countries there is no such thing. However, the likelihood of a document sent by fax is high. Do you specify this issue at the level of the law, or do you have any idea of the form in which this written consent should be in order to prevent abuse?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U141	Thank you. When you ask for an amendment to the statutes, it is quite normal that a shareholders' meeting is required to amend the statutes. There's nothing new. We were talking about selling stock. Estonian legislation actually allows for oral contracts: you can sell the case by oral agreement, you can borrow by oral agreement, you can sell shares by oral agreement. But it seemed a little too radical in this context. So a perfectly normal contract fits perfectly normal signatures, digital signatures, i.e. any contract is suitable, but an oral contract is not suitable. That is our amendment by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U142	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U143	Good chairman of the sitting! Dear waitress, The purpose of amending the Act is to provide an opportunity to bring foreign investments into Estonia, including large investments. As we know, e-residency also had high expectations of how many new jobs will be brought to Estonia, big investments will come, and all this will bring us success and resources. In reality, the situation did not become quite that way. Is it not exactly the same risk that we are releasing the standards very much, but we still do not achieve the desired goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U144	Thank you. Well, it's an assessment. Companies created by e-residents paid more than 10 million euros to the state budget last year. Whether this is a big success story or a small success story, I cannot comment on that. I would not say that this programme has failed, but there is a certain problem that Estonian banks are not very happy to open accounts for foreigners. This is also the reason why we wish to adopt this law because, if foreign residents could open accounts with Estonian banks, they would have the opportunity to use the Estonian securities register. But if there's no account, there's no securities account, and they can't use the services of the EKK. Unfortunately, it is such a closed circle, from which we are proposing precisely by means of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U145	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U146	Thank you. Honourable waitress! With this law, we expect a great deal of foreign investment here, hundreds of thousands, even millions, while reducing the share capital from EUR 25000 to EUR 10000. Don't you think that's a little disproportionate? And what is the reason to reduce this share capital?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U147	Thank you. Actually, we're expecting a lot more money here. Last year, more than ten start-ups, more than twenty start-ups have raised more than a million euros each. Some investments are very high, in tens of millions. Our concern is that these companies can go abroad at a certain point when they already have many shareholders. We want to avoid that. Now, a successful start-up has always started somewhere, perhaps in a garage, perhaps in a bedroom. Then EUR 10,000 is quite a lot of money. Yes, indeed, in five or ten years, this company may be worth several billion euros, but today it's worth purely your idea. And 10,000 euros means you have to sell your apartment, for example. EUR 25000 may mean that you may not have such an expensive apartment and you will not succeed. So this EUR 10,000 seemed like this, I don't know whether a reasonable compromise or not was a good colleague of Toomas Kivimägi's proposal. The Commission went along with this. My wish would have been to agree on a smaller amount, but the people are different. This is the church-centre-village solution that we agreed on in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U148	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U149	Thank you. I still haven't gotten an answer on how some of the owners get information that they want to sell or pawn some part. And what remains to me is that, since some have a owner, whose part is sold or pledged and whose part must be asked for permission. If I own this part, I can sell it, buy it, swap it and pawn it. What's all this show for? What general meeting? What? If a public limited liability company has an A share, it's entitled to a preference purchase, so if the share goes for sale, I can buy my share at the end at the most expensive price at auction. But what kind of shares do they sell here? Whose shares are these?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U150	In the case of private limited liability companies, there may also be a shareholder agreement, which provides, for example, a right of pre-emption, any other mechanism, which is not relevant to this context at present. Now, the situation would be quite similar to what is happening with units currently registered in the Estonian securities register. You don't have to go to the notary there either, you can make a transfer there, and you can also issue new shares and sell them to a new investor. This is a common practice, unless the company involves money, rather than simply changing ownership. So this mechanism is exactly the same, there hasn't been any missile invented here. If I couldn't answer your question, I'm sorry. But maybe some of your colleagues can rephrase it somehow so that I can respond more accurately, or I will answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U151	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U152	Thank you. However, I did not get an answer to my question. When we talk about written consent, what form must this written consent take? Do you need the original version of the written consent or a copy or whatever at the time of the decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U153	I would like to stress once again that we are talking about a stock purchase transaction. We both understand that, don't we? This contract is the same as any other contract if you sell, for example, a car, furniture, apartment rules are exactly the same. Normal signature is fine, digital signature is fine. As long as the contract is written, not oral. When selling shares, the rules are exactly the same as when buying or selling any other asset.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U154	Heiki Kranich, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U155	I'd like to say procedurally that I asked twice, and I didn't get an answer twice. Does the board have some sort of procedural solution if questions are not answered?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U156	No, we heard the question was answered. Whether it was a substantive answer or not is a question of its own. The rules of procedure do not so precisely state whether the respondent must give a substantive or formal answer. For the most part, we still get substantive answers here and have had very good questions. So I guess it's all been in accordance with the rules of procedure. I believe that you will also be able to continue to talk outside the big hall and receive further answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U157	Just in case, I'd go through the procedure, though. The content of the amendment is also available on paper. I'll read it just in case. I understand that the amendment will not be presented if...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U158	Haven't you read it yet? Or what are you reporting?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U159	No, the point is that I have presented the amendments very briefly, but it turns out that this is not enough. Apparently, those drawers in the back of the room aren't very popular with the ambassadors. One part of Amendment 2 reads as follows: a part of the disposal operation is carried out in a form at least capable of being reproduced in writing. The amendment itself is longer, but this part speaks just like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U160	Thank you, no more questions for you! Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. We can go to the examination of the amendments. Four amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment has been proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment is also from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. A fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and once again the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 148. The second reading is closed and item 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U161	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Aliens Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The waitress is Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U162	Dear Chairman, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I present 135 main points of the draft law amending the Aliens Act. The subject concerns the so-called 'digital visa'. Estonia is once again able to demonstrate itself as a leading and innovative country in this area. So what are we talking about? The visa for the diginomaat allows people who work independently of their location to come to Estonia temporarily. We do know that this is an increasingly common way of living, and it is also possible to have an employment relationship when travelling or living in different countries. People who work in this way, whether they are in IT, finance or marketing, are called digital nomads. Diginomaa, for example, is a person who works in Estonia for an IT company in the United States, such as a programmer. This is possible because he works on a computer over the Internet and therefore it does not matter where he is at exactly the time of the work. diginomaa can also be a foreign entrepreneur, who employs himself by working on a computer over the Internet for various companies around the world, while being permanently established in Estonia. At present, the regulation of labour migration is such that it does not take digital nomads into account. To come to work in Estonia, people like this must have an Estonian employer. Therefore, digital nomads often come to Estonia with a tourist visa, even though they actually want to work remotely here. Since digital nomads are not placed under the rules of classical employment, their arrival in Estonia and their purposeful stay in Estonia are prevented. At the same time, digital nomads undoubtedly bring significant added value to the state, as they consume the goods and services here and have a positive impact on local business. Estonia, by the way, is an attractive destination country thanks to the application of its advanced technologies and its IT display on an international scale. In the case of Estonia, digital nomads find the start-up community here attractive, access to the European Union market, good English skills, as well as our e-residency programme. These categories or reasons why Estonia seems attractive to people come from the 2018 Jobbatical survey. We are currently forecasting that there could be about 1800 people a year for applicants for a digital visa. There's never a thing with just a plus sign, you always have to take the minus signs into account. The Ministry has therefore considered the risks of misuse and the possibilities of minimising them in the development of the regulation. Diginomaa can only come to Estonia for teleworking through a reliable intermediary who is responsible for the presence of a digital nomad. Criteria will be developed in cooperation with partners to assess credibility. The general conditions for issuing visas apply to diginomadas, including sufficient financial resources for them to stay in Estonia. We impose on the employer who registers the obligations of the foreigner for short-term employment, the challenger. An employer who invites an alien to work in Estonia must also take responsibility for him and if the state is forced to expel the person, the costs of the state must be borne by the employer who invited the alien to Estonia. We also see the Police and Border Guard Board as an opportunity to assess the reliability of an alien's inviting person to Estonia. The inviting person must be the employer, educational institution, internship enabler or other person to whom the alien comes in Estonia. The PBGB may assess that the inviting party is unreliable, in which case account shall be taken of breaches of obligations laid down in the Aliens Act or of other reasons in which there are reasonable grounds for doubting the originator's reliability. If the Police and Border Guard Board has assessed that an employer is unreliable, this assessment can be taken into account in the future if the same employer submits an application for registration of short-term employment and dismisses the application. In practice, by the way, there are cases where an alien invited to Estonia has repeatedly violated the requirements of the Aliens Act and contributed to the misuse of regulation. It should be noted that the number of misdemeanour proceedings against employers has increased by 170% compared to 2013. If it is known to the authorities from the past that the caller is unreliable, it is not reasonable to reassess his credibility every time, because in such a situation admission of an alien to Estonia would represent an important risk of illegal immigration. The assessment already carried out does not mean that the administrative body should not have to verify in each new procedure whether the assessment is still appropriate and justified. The Police and Border Guard Board shall have the right to evaluate for a period of up to one year. The annual period is sufficient to allow the foreign vocation to change its behaviour and the PPP to assess whether the vocation has changed its previous behaviour. We also organise the application for a long-stay visa in the Aliens Act and solve a number of problems that have arisen in practice. Currently, the Aliens Act regulates the capital and investment requirement for entrepreneurs in three different ways: the employer of a top specialist, the residence permit for entrepreneurship under general conditions and the residence permit for entrepreneurship for a large investor. The minimum size of the investment will not be changed, but the definition of the investment will be clarified and harmonised, i.e. the allocation of assets to different economic activities. The deposit claim will also be specified and will be linked to the Aliens Remuneration Fund and not to the entire payroll fund of the employees of the company. The administrative act shall also be made available by electronic means. The possibilities of the current law have already become obsolete. It will be possible to use an appropriate information system in the future, which, although not yet in place, has been taken into account. For reasons of legal clarity, the grounds for refusal to grant a residence permit in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation of the company are included in the Act. At present, bankruptcy proceedings or winding-up procedures give rise to doubts as to the reliability of the employer, but there is no explicit ground for refusal. This is important because the employer must be able to pay the salary. In order to comply with Directive 2014/66/EU, the specificities of intra-corporate transferees shall be regulated and the remuneration may also be paid by a company outside the European Union. A long-stay visa may be refused and a long-stay visa may be revoked if there are grounds for doubting the reliability of the employer, the educational establishment, the enabler of traineeships or any other person to whom the alien comes. An application for a long-stay visa may be submitted by post or e-mail, via an electronic channel or a representative if the person has already applied for the visa and the administrative body has fingerprints. It should be noted here that the electronic channel has not yet been created, but that this possibility has been taken into account. From now on, a foreigner must appear in person when issuing a visa. Finally, some statistical numbers. The most common violations involving foreigners are cases where the employer employs an alien legally staying in Estonia, but does not register his or her employment at the Police and Border Guard Board, does not pay the employee the required, at least the average wage in Estonia and does not pay labour taxes. Such violations have been increasingly detected: 39 employers in 2013, 108 employers in 2018 and 116 employers in 2019. The calculation of the digital projection is based on the number of digital ID recipients of the e-resident. In particular, a digital visa may be of interest to people who are independent of their location, who have already applied for an e-residency card and now wish to visit Estonia. 7475 e-resident digital IDs were issued in 2015, 8023 in 2016 and 22382 in 2018. It is likely that a relatively small number of people applying for an e-residency card would like to visit Estonia. Provided that a maximum of one-tenth of e-residents wish to apply for a visa as a digital country, the potential applicants for a teleworking visa may be around 1800 people per year. That's what I'd like to finish the introduction right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U163	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U164	Thank you. I'm sure there are good points in this bill. The issue of digitalism certainly deserves to be further discussed and further developed. However, there is a problem with the introduction of § 402 (point 4 of the draft) and the assessment of reliability. In your report, you said that the Police and Border Guard Board is still able to assess this reliability on a once-in-a-lifetime basis. You also said that, even if credibility is called into question for a whole year, the police still have to assess it every time. My question is this: are you sure you want to put this point in this form? In the Commission, you told us that you felt that Bolt was equally unreliable. But if, for example, one student goes to the Estonian Academy of Arts to study and goes to work, do you think and understand that the Estonian Academy of Arts will also become an untrustworthy institution? Please explain once again the necessity of this if, in the law currently in force, the PBGB already has the opportunity to assess each time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U165	I didn't exactly say in the committee that one student makes the entire institution unreliable. But, as I said here, these criteria are basically being developed, and indeed, certain criteria exist now. This whole complex of questions is, of course, very complicated, and here we are dealing with a certain way of saying how to learn from a life of years. After all, no one has been involved in this, let us say, since 2015, when this wave of migration hit Europe, and this afterwave has come to an end as well as to us and our neighbouring countries, to assess exactly what these effects are, how many people may be affected, what improvements or changes are needed in the laws. After all, we are seeing a very stormy attack on new technologies, and we must keep up with the times and learn from life itself. After all, this whole digital issue has come to the table because we need to adapt to changing circumstances. At the same time, we cannot overlook the fact that, just as cybercrime has emerged in the bank, it is much easier and more sensible today to rob in cyber ways than to go to the bank office to bang with automatics or pistols, so there is abuse in these areas, there are certain ways to exploit loopholes. All of this must be foreseen. I am not telling you with 100% certainty that everything we are proposing is the truth of the last instance, and I also thought I said in the Commission that, in my opinion, any additions, changes, proposals are welcome in the procedure of the draft, because the aim is to make it as life-appropriate as possible. So if the Reform Party has good proposals in the process of dealing with the draft, I do not think that they will be rejected simply because they come from the opposition. That's my assessment. But since I don't work in any Riigikogu commission, I can't tell you exactly which discussions, debates, debates, debates, discussions there might arise. But basically, I think our common goal is to keep up with the times and make a bill that meets the requirements of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U166	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The diginomaat must have a teleworking visa and for that purpose its applicant, the applicant for the visa must have a reliable intermediary or an administrative body has checked that the alien complies with the preconditions for issuing the visa. A reliable intermediary, which is expected to be a company, as this draft states, will be held responsible for the digital nomad. Can it be explained in more detail how and for what reasons this reliable intermediary could be held liable, especially as it is a company? So, what's this digino country doing bad, huh? And since the Minister of the Interior establishes a list of reliable intermediaries in his order, there is a pretty interesting situation in this respect, that means that there must be a lot of information about the trusted intermediary who is responsible for this digital nomad. How can a company be held liable? It got a little complicated, but maybe you'll comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U168	Well, in principle, he is still responsible for employing or entering into employment with someone who really does the work on which he or she is contracted, rather than entering into fictitious employment contracts, which may result in a work relationship and a person coming to Estonia from abroad or legalising some illegal activity, perhaps cybercrime. This is it. Just as it is when people are brought here who are supposed to work in the financial intermediation sector or in the IT sector, but they actually start cycling and distributing food. This was an example that was referred to earlier by the honourable nationalist; we also briefly discussed this in the Commission. That is the question of credibility, and here are the criteria of credibility. I would never question the competence of the Police and Border Guard Board. However, the question is whether they have an adequate legislative basis, and this is what this bill is trying to create. The question is also whether they have enough resources to carry out all these things. Here, too, we are trying to resolve these issues so that they have it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U169	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U170	Good manager! Dear Minister, Paragraph 62 (2) reads as follows: "Long-stay visas may be issued to an alien if he or she has sufficient funds to cover the accommodation and stay costs during his or her stay in Estonia and to return to his or her country of origin or transit. ' Is there gonna be a number coming in here? There are European countries where, for example, there must be EUR 10000 on the bill, so that a visa can be applied for at all, although often this money moves from one account to another, if necessary. There's text here, but there's no number. Who appreciates it? Is it appreciated by a PPA official, or is there a number for that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U171	Well, you can't put these numbers in the sense that we don't process this bill so it's valid here for a year or two. We know that all kinds of money rates and the cost of living change. If we put today that there must be 50 euros a day, perhaps in five years' time it will be totally inadequate. So in this sense, too, there has been a lack of numbers here. We also need to look at the fact that we do not know exactly how long these stays can be and how much costs they may entail. So in this sense, it would be very speculative to produce some kind of financial figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U172	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U173	Thank you. I will, however, continue with this question of credibility. Any legislative change that we are making here should actually serve the purpose that the economy is starting to grow better and that businesses are making life a little easier. With this change, it seems to me that we are signaling the business environment, that it is actually getting worse and that it is turning it off. Could you open up that background a little bit from your own perspective? What will this credibility assessment look like? What are these criteria? Who is trustworthy and who is not trustworthy? I didn't find it in the explanatory memorandum. I tried to read it for a very long time, but I couldn't find it. In the Commission, you mentioned Bolt, but what else might be the criteria on the basis of which the country is going to say that, for one year, you, as an entrepreneur, will be off this list or out of that list, who can bring foreign workers. For you, then, are all foreign workers basically a dangerous element in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U174	No, in my opinion, not all foreign workers are a dangerous element, but we see every day how the visa regime, the visa waiver and the conditions for working in Estonia are violated. A few dozen Ukrainian migrant workers were expelled from Estonia last week, who were hired for some construction or other site, but whose work had not been fixed in accordance with Estonian law, regulated in one word, completed. So there's no illusions, there's always gonna be violations. We certainly also need to talk about what has become more and more topical in the European Union, about the exchange of information and the cross-use of information between the respective institutions of the European countries. This is specifically intended in the field of the Ministry of the Interior to ensure that information about unreliable companies, unreliable businesses, including employees who have been caught by fraud in different countries is available throughout Europe. And that is what the PBA is doing: it uses the information available to assess the reliability of the visa applicant, the visa applicant's legitimacy, on this basis. Not at all, I think, should we read out of this bill that we intend to use this bill as some kind of discrimination instrument. The draft is still intended to correct the rules and lay down clear rules for the game. So, in this sense, I think it may not be right to suspect this draft as an exclusion of foreign workers, on the contrary, the draft says very clearly that we are giving the opportunity to those people who work with Estonia in one way or another through companies, through private enterprise, to legalise their activities so that they do not have to come to Estonia at the invitation of a cow's child, with a fictitious visa, with a tourist visa, but can come legally and say that, yes, I am doing business in Estonia, I am providing a service to an Estonian entrepreneur, I need to come to Estonia to explain my relationship, to consult, to share information, and I will do it legally. So that's the goal. If anything remains suspicious here, it is to be welcomed to make improvements that would dispel these doubts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U175	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I can see from the explanatory memorandum to the draft that it has been sent to Tallinn University of Technology, Tallinn University and the University of Tartu for coordination, and they have all given their opinion. But it has not been sent to either the Estonian Academy of Arts or the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, where there are also many international study programmes and foreign students and lecturers. I suppose, of course, that the Council of Rectors has discussed this matter among themselves. However, the question concerns § 40, which governs the assessment of reliability. I would like to know, perhaps you could open it, that if the Police and Border Guard Board has been given the right to assess the reliability or unreliability of the employer, will it be assessed by a personal person, is it a committee where members from different organisations vary? How is it arranged?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U177	I guess he's arranged as we basically now have a visa check on visa applicants. This means that the application still passes through certain data banks. Yes, of course individual cases are dealt with by individual persons, but if doubts arise, these questions will be moved to the next instance, which is already a collective responsibility. I can give an example of the time when I was working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when, exactly as the embassy encountered problems with the granting of visas to some people, it was brought to a higher level and it was decided, in a 'collective analysis', whether the application would be granted or rejected. The system is basically the same with regard to the verification of its reliability.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U178	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U179	Good manager! Dear Minister, First of all, I want to say that this is the right way to go. That's a good law. But I'd just like to know about the next thing. When applying for a long-stay visa, a person must have a valid health insurance contract. But if he comes here from a third country and he's not working yet, does he have to have health insurance granted by that third country? Or what exactly is it meant by that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U180	By this we mean that in the event of an accident or illness, a person would not be able to support the Estonian state. I am not very competent at the moment to reply to the respective health certificates of which countries the Estonian state accepts and which countries do not accept. I think this picture is pretty written all over the world. There are countries that are credible in this respect and there are countries that are not credible. So I dare not say any answer to you right now that we do not accept a medical certificate issued in Ghana, for example, but we accept what has been issued in Brazil. I don't dare say that. It's probably business here, and this picture can be passionate. I think that the relevant databases will be created if they do not already exist and will also be used to assess them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U181	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Lauri Läänemets, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U182	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft on 10 February and the content of the debate revolved around a subject, which was § 402 concerning the assessment of reliability. Its content is that the Police and Border Guard Board may assess the unreliability of the employer, educational institution, internship enabler or other person. Paragraph 3 of that same section states that "in making an assessment account shall be taken of breaches of obligations imposed under this Act and of other causes'. And those 'other reasons' were the ones that gave rise to the debate in the Commission. The question was, what other reasons could there be? They're not listed anywhere. The question was also whether, for example, a two-month corporate tax debt could be another reason for the company to become unreliable and what happens if, for such reasons, the company gets on the list of unreliable persons by the year. What's that got to do with it? In such a case, the undertakings will challenge this decision, there will be long disputes. Does this not create an unjustified administrative burden for the State? It was also a question of whether a visa could not simply be refused and that perhaps there should be no justification and such a list. Examples were provided that many countries simply do not grant you this permission and all, they do not have to explain why. This is also the case because if you have to justify it and it is contested, then sometimes it may be a question of the fact that it is an assessment by the Defence Police Department, which is not intended to be published by everyone. And in that case, don't move on again, they'll hit a dead end. Maybe it'll be more annoying. The initiator of the draft, of course, had the answer. They believe that it should be possible to challenge the absence of a visa, precisely this refusal decision. And the decision to revoke a visa should also be subject to appeal. The European Commission is said to be moving in the direction that non-visa should be justified. In a very brief way, this substantive debate revolved around this issue. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped, to appoint me rapporteur and to set ten working days by which amendments should be tabled, as provided for in the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U183	Thank you. You have questions too. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U184	Thank you. Dear waitress, In this chapter of the explanatory memorandum 'The effects of changes in the regulation of visa and temporary stays', Estonia is mentioned as interesting information that Estonia is the first country in the world to allow digitalists to apply for a visa for teleworking purposes, and that the experiences of other countries cannot be taken into account. Was there perhaps also a discussion in the Commission about how Estonia is now carrying this pilot project and what are the reasons why another, such as our northern neighbour, has not allowed this format, while we know that in Finland about 40% of the workers are teleworking workers. I don't know how they divide between the people of their own country and the people of other countries. But was there any mention of it in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U185	Thank you. That's a very good question. I myself would have an interest in this, too, but unfortunately this was not mentioned in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U186	Thank you. There's no more question for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Yes, Raimond Kaljulaid, probably on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U187	The President of the sitting reads my thoughts. Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft is voluminous and multifaceted, and it is certainly important to take very careful account of the written comments made by employers so far. It should also be taken into account that labour shortages are an important problem for Estonian entrepreneurs, and the full text of this draft certainly requires further analysis and hearing of the various parties. But what definitely needs to be said is that the initiative to create a digital visa itself is very welcome. There are more and more people in the world, including Estonia, whose work is largely or entirely done on the Internet and who do not depend on their physical location. There are many more people who would like and could work in this way in the future. This draft establishes a separate digital visa, which allows people whose work does not depend on where they are located to work on the basis of a visa in Estonia. And hopefully, the colleague mentioned here that other countries have not implemented such practice, and Estonia's decision and example also encourages other countries to create similar opportunities so that our citizens can work on the same footing in other countries. People in the older generation may not be told by names such as Kats Kats and Juhani Särtlep very much, but there are workers and other similar workers in Estonia who would be very interested in such mobility opportunities. In any case, these new freedoms create new opportunities and entrepreneurial people create new value again by using these opportunities. Let us think about this, for example, and in the future it cannot be ruled out, whether we in the Riigikogu must always gather all in this large hall. I see no reason why some of the delegates elected from the islands could not attend our meeting today, ask questions, take part in the debate and why not even vote from Saaremaa, Hiiumaa, Muhumaa or Ruhnu, while being closer to our community and our voters. The same is the case at international level. In any case, I hope that this debate and procedure will be constructive, because in fact, we constantly need new ideas that will develop our e-state and take this area forward. We must not rest on the laurels that have been achieved in the past. However, in any case, the comments made by employers and other associations must be considered seriously. But this initiative itself, the digital initiative, is, in my view, very welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U188	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations and negotiations have been concluded. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 135. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. of 11 March this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U189	Today's fourth item is the first reading of the draft Act 137 on ratification of the Baltic Air Surveillance Network and Management System Arrangement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia. I would like to ask Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige to wait for the speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U190	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Government of the Republic, I present to you for the first reading the draft Act ratifying the Baltic Air Surveillance Network and Management System Arrangement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia. This complex agreement means, in short, the following. The air surveillance system of the Baltic States began in 1999 when the BALTNET air surveillance network was set up. Its aim was to organise the exchange of information between national air surveillance systems, to enable the production of a single air surveillance picture for the Baltic region and to exchange it with third parties, in particular NATO. In 2004, when we entered NATO, NATO air security fighters began to be located in the Baltic States, and from that time until today, all three countries' airspace will be monitored through BALTNET and, which is very important, NATO air security fighters will be operated. Since 1999, the centre of this work has been located in Karmelava, Lithuania. It is a single command and information centre that is directly subject to NATO's respective systems. Since 2011, we have worked not only to have one regional centre in Lithuania, but to have an air traffic control centre for each Baltic State to deal with both domestic tasks and NATO-centred and regional tasks. It has many advantages. One advantage is that since these centres can transfer the right of leadership to each other, for example, the Estonian centre to Latvia or the Latvian centre to Lithuania or vice versa, during the crisis the centres can also manage air security in a situation where, for example, one or two centres fall out of line and the third Baltic State takes over. It will, of course, ensure much better defence and, in fact, reduce the administrative burden. Currently, Estonia is sending its teams to Lithuania's regional centre, but now these teams are operating in Estonia. In 2007, the previous BALTNET agreement was ratified, and now the Riigikogu, if supported by the Riigikogu, will have to ratify a new agreement with which the previous agreement will expire. Three countries have also promised to make additional investments in this agreement, and these investments relate in particular to the operational capabilities of the centres. I refer here to tactical data communication, missile defence, anti-missile systems and coordination of ground-to-air missile systems. We often talk about anti-aircraft, not air security, but anti-aircraft. Of course, it must be taken into account that anti-aircraft also needs control, and this is also one of the areas for the future of these centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U191	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U192	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Realising that this is certainly a very important step in developing not only air surveillance, but also anti-aircraft systems and cooperation in the three Baltic States, I may just want to know, in order to understand a slightly broader background, what additional steps are planned following this agreement in order to move more from air security to air defence or air defence issues. And what could the future plans of the government or the three Baltic states be like, what can you say in this hall to cooperate in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U193	Thank you. As far as air protection is concerned, indeed, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania all have short-range air control capabilities, while Estonia and Latvia do not have mid-land air control. This is a relatively expensive military ability, and we are seriously considering it by drawing up a development plan for the next ten years right now. Of course, such development plans are always a place of choice, so the development of one military capability will reduce the other to some extent. In any case, we need to ensure a "plug-and-play" system, which means that if the allies bring their mid-earth air control to the territory of the Republic of Estonia, they also need the same radars, the same communication capabilities, the same tactical communication systems and these systems must be ready for use. You plug it in and you can use it. That's what we're gonna guarantee anyway. As far as firing systems and missiles are concerned, a separate decision must be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U194	Thank you, Minister, there are no further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Alar Laneman, Member of the National Defence Commission, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is my great honour to see the first joint project of the three Baltic States as the commander of the first unit of BALTBAT and to report to you on the next very big step in the field of air security. BALTNET is undoubtedly one of the most important defence cooperation projects. The history of this common air monitoring network dates back to the mid-1990s. The 1999 Agreement between the governments of the Baltic States established the first integrated air surveillance network of the three Baltic States, BALTNET, which aimed to organise the exchange of information between the national air surveillance systems of Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, to enable the production of a single aerial surveillance picture of the Baltic region and to exchange it with its allies. As part of NATO's air defence system, the role of BALTNET is not only air surveillance but also air traffic control and tactical control of air security operations. On the basis of the CP 5A0109 NATO capability package, each Baltic State will have one management system, and today we have reached a new agreement to start implementing the Baltic air surveillance network and control systems to ensure airspace integrity. The most important role of this agreement is that the three Baltic States will be able to replace each other if necessary, should the situation so require. Before, only our Lithuanian partners had such capacity. When a new agreement is concluded, the centre in Carmelava, Lithuania, will be closed. Public entities will be granted the status of the CRC or the control and reporting centre, or the management and information centre, and the change will reduce the administrative burden to date for the three Baltic States. It will also allow new preparations to be launched to address crisis and conflict situations. Overall, the capacity of the Baltic States will be significantly improved. We also need to ratify this agreement because, once it enters into force, the agreement between Estonia, Latvia and the Lithuanian Government on the development of the Baltic air monitoring network and the management system, ratified by the Riigikogu on 24 October 2007, will expire. The National Defence Committee discussed this draft at its meeting on 17 February this year, where Kadi Silde, Deputy Chancellor of Defence of the Ministry of Defence, representative of the Defence Forces and officials of the Ministry of Defence were invited. At its meeting on 17 February, the Commission decided by consensus to submit the draft for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu and to appoint me rapporteur for the committee. At the same time, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the first reading of the draft and ask for the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft, including 11 March at 5 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U196	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U197	Good manager! Good waitress! It has been said here that the agreement has not, however, sufficiently ensured the national needs to guarantee the integrity of sovereign airspace, three states and multi-ethnic societies, costly and everything else. Can you open up some of its contents, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U198	Thank you. I would like to, but unfortunately the Commission did not go into its content in very detailed terms. However, the most important step I have already mentioned was that each Baltic country will have autonomy in this area. It wasn't before, it's a big step forward. And the Minister for Defence also described how air security, air protection is a very complex system of management, consisting of both control components and destructive means, as well as all this ground support, etc. This decision may be such an administrative step, but it also has a large capacity-building content. Unfortunately, on the basis of the work of the Commission, I cannot give you any more details.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U199	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U200	Good speaker! Good waitress! Are there any other projects known to be carried out in the framework of Baltic joint defence cooperation? There used to be a thing like BALTBAT, but I know it's kind of stopped now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U201	Thank you. I'm gonna step on a slippery path now. These other projects were not discussed by the Commission, but these projects have had a very significant impact on the development of the defence forces of our three Baltic countries, both in terms of capacity growth, training and the rhythm of joint development. This trail has already been left, but time will change and the need for certain projects will remain when these projects were on the agenda. That's all I can tell you, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U202	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 137. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 11 March at 17:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U203	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's move on to today's agenda. The fifth item is the first reading of Bill 119 of the Amending Act on funded pensions, the Income Tax Act and the Register of Securities Act initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. I request Andres Suti, member of the Riigikogu as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U204	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Riigikogu! For the second time, I have the honour to speak about the topic of the Estonian pension system and, above all, to talk about how to improve the pension system without having to take it apart or break it up again in advance. This draft, which we tabled at the end of last year, is in the interests of both today's and future pensioners, and I think it is important to understand that we are not in any way opposed to different generations. We are not saying that future generations are more important than our generation or our parents' generation or our grandparents' generation. All generations are equally important. And who are we talking about? We are talking about 749000 people who today have active pension accounts, and these pension accounts have around EUR 4.8 billion today. That's a lot of money! For most of Estonia's people, the only financial assets they have accumulated in the second pillar or the main financial assets, is why it is particularly important that we go about this subject carefully. What problem do we solve with this bill? This has not been changed much compared to the draft that we tabled before, but we have specified it. Very simply, we will solve the real bottlenecks in the Estonian pension system. It is no secret that the Estonian population is ageing. He's not shrinking, but he's getting old. In any society with an ageing population, it is clear that the pressure on pensions, health care, care, or cost increases, is increasing, while taxpayers are being reduced. And so is Estonia. So in this sense, we do not have a substantive alternative to compulsory funded pension, and I think we should not look very much for it, because if we are talking about people having greater freedom, the more financial freedom we can give them, the more free they will be to make choices over their lifetime. Compulsory retirement pensions, above all, still serve the purpose of helping people to live a reasonable life when their working lives end. And I think it is very important that when we talk about this law, we are still talking about the pension system as a whole. We are talking about the first pillar guaranteed by the state, which is the minimum necessary for living, but nothing more; the second pillar, which complements it, and the third pillar, which should contribute even more. What problem do we solve with our bill? We are making four important changes with regard to the four bottlenecks that are present in the system today. The largest of these is the payout system, which today offers only one option of a lifelong insurance contract. In addition, we offer a fund pension, or solution, where the pension assets collected during a person's life or working life can also grow during the payout phase, as this asset will continue to be reinvested. It is also possible to withdraw some or all of the money, and it is possible to combine all of these options. In other words, the payout phase becomes very, very flexible. But as happens sometimes, unexpected events may occur, and that is why we have some exceptions in the draft that allow the savings accumulated in the second pillar to be introduced earlier. We are talking here, for example, about the loss of work capacity, the financing of treatment for serious illness and the situation where a person loses his or her job at pre-retirement age, the period of unemployment benefit is over and there has been no new job available. I think that in all the human circumstances that may arise at the age of pre-retirement, it is very reasonable for people to have access to their assets accumulated in the second pillar. We also suggest that, if you wish, you have the right to increase your contribution to 4% of the income subject to social tax, i.e. a 4+4 system instead of a 4+2 system. It does not impose an additional burden on the country, but it gives people the opportunity to put away more. We also want to restore fair taxation, especially the third pillar, whose payments today go to income tax, i.e. are included in total income. And we will certainly motivate people with this tax change to choose as long a period of pension payment as possible, because the income tax for a pension, fund pension or insurance contract over 15 years of age would be zero. And fourthly, which I think is equally important, we are tasking the registrar, or the Pension Centre, with making easily and permanently available to people information about how much he has accumulated in different pillars, what the rate of return has been, what the paid fees have been, what the human pension forecast is and what the payout options are, because one of the reasons why we have held these debates here today in society at large, too, may be that people simply do not know. If they have a better overview of what their pension will be and what will affect it, then I think that people can make more rational choices. I must stress this, too, although I do not like that we are in this situation, that Estonian pensioners are living at the highest risk of poverty in the European Union. If we want to reduce the risk of poverty, it is the retirement pension that will help achieve this. In today's judicial space, it is also important to stress that our draft is in line with the Constitution. [[In the diner.]] Well, we have this strong conviction and the various lawyers have also reviewed this bill, but of course the President and, if necessary, the Supreme Court will give a final assessment. But I think it's pretty simple here. We also know that the draft, which was initiated by the government and which was adopted by the Riigikogu with the majority of the votes in this Chamber, has decided to re-accept, without amendment, both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs with the vote of the coalition. If this is the case, then it is likely that the final decision will take place in the Supreme Court, which actually means that those people who retire tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in a few weeks, in a month, after every day, no one will go, in fact there are no choices that we offer. And I think that if we deal with this bill together in a friendly and good pace, we can definitely adopt a law that makes the payout system very flexible. I will come back for a moment to one of the related drafts that we submitted on 9 May 2019, concerning the exemption of the average pension from income tax. Both drafts concern the well-being of our pensioners today, which is why I brought this link. This draft, which was submitted last spring, passed the first reading last September and is still on the shelf. However, this draft has a very direct impact on the well-being of all pensioners, just as it has been today, which I am defending here. In my opinion, the speed of handling the drafts is in our hands and our responsibility. Let us bear this responsibility with dignity, and let us not leave the drafts on the shelf. I ask that you support this bill and that we finish the first reading. In this way, we can move quickly to second reading and make the Estonian pension system better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U205	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U206	Thank you, honourable waitress, for a very thorough introduction. Maybe a little bit of a government bill. The draft government wants to dismantle the same second pillar, and it also says that pensioners will be guaranteed a living in the future. It is feared that most will remain an applicant for income support, for those who have not joined the second pillar. But now that we are looking at Bill 119, does it provide security for most elderly people at retirement age? Will the future of those who have joined the second pillar and maybe retire in 10 to 20 years' time be brighter?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U207	Their future, I believe, is certainly brighter, because I think very much of the resentment or criticism that has been made today in relation to the second pillar is based on the simple fact that the collection period has been very short. If a person joins the second pillar at the beginning of his or her working life and collects 40 or more years, a significant amount of money will accumulate on his or her pension account. Various studies have been carried out. For example, Eesti Pank has said that the younger the person is today, the greater the share of the second pillar in his pension, up to 30% or even more. We can also make a simple calculation, which we can always argue about, but I do dare to stand next to or behind them: if we are based on a person who earns EUR 1300 per month today, and we make such a assumption that his salary will increase by 4% a year and that the yield of his set of assets will be on average 3.5% per year, then in 40 years, EUR 160,000 will be collected into his second pillar account. I think EUR 160000 is a pretty good amount in 40 years. So, good questioner, when you said that the first pillar pension guarantees a living minimum, I think the more time goes on, the more it's gonna be like this. That is why the funded pension has also been a central element of the pension system from the outset; it is not simply put there. Let's make pensions better!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U208	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U209	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In fact, you already mentioned it in one sentence, but I'm going to ask you this: did I understand correctly that there was no constitutional breach? Indeed, we have had a lot of discussions on the issue of pensions in this Chamber and we have often come to the point of violating § 10, 12, 14, 28, 31 or 32 of the Constitution as regards the preservation of the value of property, etc. And the other thing is that it goes against § 1 of the Social Tax Act. I would like to confirm that, in the case of this draft, there are really no significant interferences with § 1 of the Social Tax Act and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U210	Thank you for your question. I dare answer that question with a clear yes. Exactly what is in the Social Tax Act, this bill actually supports and supports with two hands. We are not dealing with fundamental changes in the pension system in this draft. Rather, it is about making the system more flexible where it is needed and ensuring that people's pensions are as high as possible over generations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U211	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U212	Good manager! Good waitress! I am glad that you are approaching this in the right direction. But now I'm asking you that with this bill, people can still withdraw money from the second pension pillar under certain conditions. One reason or possibility arises when the unit-holder is identified as having no capacity to work. The ability to work may in some cases recover, maybe it will only be away for a period of time. What's the difference between this bill and the government bill? The money can be taken out. For example, you've been picking up for 17 years, and today you're gonna be unable to work, so it's a good idea that you can withdraw money now. I'll be back in a year, but I'll run out of second pension money by then. What's the difference between this bill and the government bill when I retire?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U213	The biggest difference is that, before the retirement age, it is only possible to withdraw money on our draft in the case of exceptions to the final list. You asked what would happen if the person's ability to work was restored. Well, personally, I think it's very good to have a person's work capacity restored. If he can go back to work, back to the labour market, it is best what can happen to this person. I don't worry too much that his pension will be smaller in the future. He doesn't have to spend all the money in one year. I don't see any reason to worry about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U214	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U215	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! It is a good thing that Members of Parliament are looking ahead at a long time, 30 to 40 years ago, but my concern is that we are the relatively poorest in the European Union. Our pensioners live in relative poverty, 52% of all pensioners. These are the people who are receiving pensions now. Should we not, above all, resolve this problem somehow and only then think about what will happen in 30 to 40 years' time? What could be a quick solution here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U216	This is a very constructive question, and I think that our draft will solve the pension problems of both today and future pensioners. In the case of pensioners today, to say the least, the size of the pension depends first and foremost on how successful the Estonian economy is. The success of the Estonian economy in turn depends on how much investment is made. The link between investment and economic growth is particularly important in a situation where the population is declining, unless we are talking about a positive balance on migration, which in fact has also helped us in some way. But when we talk about investments, pension funds have become the most important provider of long-term local capital, and if we somehow break the second pillar, this capital provider will disappear, which means that there will be less investment, fewer jobs, less social tax receipts and less pension growth. So, as I said in the introduction, this bill stands for pensioners across generations for both today and future pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U217	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U218	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that the proposal that people would voluntarily be allowed to make a higher contribution of up to 4% instead of today's 2% would not result in an additional burden on the country. Please explain how this is possible. Doesn't it benefit from a tax exemption? I don't get it when I look at this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U219	Yes, the tax exemption certainly extends to it. And I think you're right about that, that he has some effect in the short term. At the same time, if we look at a longer period, then pensions are also higher and thus the pressure to raise taxes is lower. So if the question is whether the additional contribution will cause the budget of the Estonian state to crack in any way, I do not value this risk very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U220	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U221	Good manager! Good waitress! You told me before that salary would rise every year, and the return on the second pension pillar could be in the order of 3.6%. When I look at the beginning of this century, when the Second Pillar Act was passed, the average pension in Estonia was 126 euros. Today it is more than 500 euros, or four times larger, on 1 April. Can you tell me which second pension pillar productivity has increased four times during this period so that we can even compare whether investing money in the second pension pillar has been beneficial? In most cases, the rate of return has been 2% and at 19% at best, rather than four times. Today we have a median of 4000 euros and an average of 6000 euros collected in the second pillar. Thus, people have a pension supplement of 22 or 33 euros or less over 17 years. How can you prove that the second pension pillar, which is human, has worked well and that money should be invested there in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U222	I'll start at the back. For example, if you look at the average total yield, it has been around 25% or 20% over 17 years. If you are talking about the average balance or the median of why it is like this, then we have to take into account that there are also a great many among the 749000 people who have been in the pillar for two years, three years, and likewise there are those who have collected into the pillar in the early years of the reform of the pension system and who may have collected only 10 to 11 years. This affects this median today, it also affects the size of the second pillar contribution. If your question is whether the pension would have been bigger if only you stayed in the first pillar, then, good questioner, if you now listen to my answer, all these adjustments, which the Ministry of Finance has also done, clearly show that if the other conditions of the first and second pillars remain the same, the pension will be higher than that of the person who has only been in the first pillar. So, of course, the second pillar of the pension has been beneficial to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U223	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This is about the bill and the fund pension you described. Perhaps you will explain in a few words what advantage it will give to today's insurance-based payout system and how it will be in the future, or in today's day, if this bill becomes a law, it will affect potential pensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U225	The biggest advantage of the fund pension option is flexibility in the key that the insurance contract offers you a stable, monthly fixed pension until the end of your life, but in the case of a fund pension, you have a greater chance of becoming part of the financial market movement. This means, of course, that your pension varies every month, whether more or less, depending on how it is invested, which risk. In any case, he's fluctuating, i.e. you're getting a share of both the rise in the financial market and the fall in the financial market. In the current system, it has been criticised that if there is an insurance contract, the amount is fixed and that money there no longer collects or grows anything. However, the fund pension offers just the alternative in which money actually continues to grow as the financial markets move. And historically, global revenues have always hit the world's economic growth. It is important to put this portfolio together geographically dispersed and with a risk class that fits the profile of the investor. Greater flexibility in combining disbursements is the biggest bottleneck in today's system, and the fund pension is one of the most important elements in resolving it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U226	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U227	President-in-Office of the Council. Good speaker! Listening to you, to the questions you have been asked and to your answers, it seems that this is a draft approaching an ideal that provides flexibility, gives certainty for the future, improves the information that is certainly important for pension funds. My question is: could and could anyone object to such a draft and with what arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U228	I have already called for: ladies and gentlemen, support! If anyone has any good ideas about how to make this very good bill even better, they are all welcome. I think we actually have a chance to improve the pension system.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U229	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U230	Thank you. Mr. Sutt! I still have to admit that there are people in this room who have found this little information room where no argument comes from the opponent. In these questions raised by the patriots, it was vividly outstanding. Please tell them, simply and slowly, that we also tried in the Commission, how demography affects the situation that has been so far, that wages are increasing and that there are many employees. How does this change affect the future pension? And what are the long-term trends in the comparison between wage increases and capital growth? You know what I'm asking. Tell them longer and slower than I have time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U231	Thank you, Jurgen! Yeah, I know what you're asking. How does demography affect? Demography affects very easily. If today we have three people of working age for one over 65 years of age, by 2040 there will be just over two, that is, 2.1. This is not a prognosis, all these children are born today, who in 2040 are working. There may be some anomalies, people may live longer, life expectancy will rise, and net migration will increase, all of which will affect. But the fact is, in the big picture, we have fewer taxpayers for one retirement age. The first pillar pension depends on an increase of 80% in social tax receipts before payments to the second pillar. In turn, the income from social tax depends on two components: wage increases and the number of employees. Let's take one very simple example: if we have a 5% increase in wages, but the number of employees falls by 5%, then the index is 1, which is that there will be no pension increase. That is the financial expression of such a well-simplified demographic picture. Now from historical productivity and economic growth. If memory doesn't fool me, since the 1960s, you can check the website of the Ministry of Finance, the blog post, the global stock indices and private bond indices have always hit economic growth. There is no way that the economy will continue to grow ever faster in Estonia than in the rest of the world. It just hasn't happened anywhere like this and it doesn't happen here either. It's based on 60 years of experience and facts, and I think we could agree on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U232	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U233	Thank you. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good waitress! In your introductory speech, you indicated that this draft is in accordance with the Constitution and that even some lawyers have looked at it and confirmed it to you. If I remember correctly, you, or at least your party friends from your home party, have questioned whether this 4% belongs to a particular person or whether it is still a joint property in the case of a government bill. According to § 40 (2) of this draft, in certain cases, people have one list, to which you referred, you can withdraw the collected money. Does that apply to 2% or 6%?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U234	No, of course 6%. But we have a limited, final list and we are talking about exceptional cases before the retirement age. If your draft had also had a list of exceptions to cases, of course, this could have been a very long list, then we would have another debate. But what we are talking about here is, in any case, in line with the idea of the pension system and the Social Tax Act, according to which pension money is collected at retirement age. I think that's very reasonable. I do not see that we are duplicitous, unless it was under your question. We are firmly committed to ensuring that, before the retirement age, this system, as a whole, is designed to collect pensions and not to withdraw this money. But we are talking about three exceptional human cases of early retirement, i.e. five years before the retirement age, and they are still a very limited sample.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U235	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U236	Good speaker! Good Andres! I know you as a good analyst who deals well with financial matters. But every time I hear the kind of how to say the push-ups that we're saving money, I remember Tom Sawyer, where a black man made his bank and invited other blacks to put his money in it, and when the money was put away, the bank went bankrupt. I guess I'm one of the few here who gets the benefits of the second pillar for a year now. I had a pretty good salary, and I get about 60 euros through the insurance company every month, and that's how it's gonna be until I get off this land once, but I'm gonna live a long time. How much purchasing power do you think this 60 euro will have in 20 years' time that I have to get under the contract?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U237	First of all, I wish everyone a long life! I think that's a good thing. And many healthy years! It's even more important at a long age. You're asking me how much 60 euros is worth in twenty years. Well, if we look at how the central banks are struggling to generate inflation, perhaps from such a pessimistic outlook, I would say that it is worth 60 euros, too, because prices are not going to rise. But I think we could go better, and there will be something else, so 60 euros is 60 euros. I don't think any of us are gonna leave that money on the street in 20 years. And I think your quality of life in those years that you put aside to get a pension supplement of 60 euros today, because of the 2% you had to set aside from your gross wage, probably didn't get any worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U238	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U239	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There have actually been a number of good questions here, but I would like further clarification. On the one hand, it is because of the health concern that the second pillar money can be used for pension and treatment purposes that § 1 of the Social Tax Act permits the use of social tax. So, what's it look like over there? just maybe there is no contradiction. The second question, however, is about men who live very long. How do these calculations go to you as an analyst, do people who live longer than the average get more money from the second pillar than they actually gathered there? Who will bear the risk of survival?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U240	Thank you, Riina! You always have very good questions, and it's good to move on from them. Yeah, you see, you know the social tax law a lot better than I do. These exceptions will fall right down there, we are talking about the targeted use of money. As far as the risk of survival is concerned, that is, if it is the case that my long life and healthy life years wish comes true, the cost of this will be borne by the insurance company. A friend of mine who's been working in insurance for the rest of his life took specific offers out of his company and found out that if he lives for at least 20 years, he's got his money back. From there, every year of his life he is paid by an insurance company. Although this calculation was in nominal terms, it did not take into account the rate of return, statistics and forecasts show that the average life expectancy in Estonia is also increasing for men, so I think it is a good thing as life insurance. Maybe I'll make one more comment. If there is a lifelong pension contract, this second pillar also includes an insurance component. Perhaps if the owner of the first pillar, who does not have the second pillar, wanted to make two things equal, i.e. his pension and the pension of the second pillar, he would have to buy up to the end of the life expectancy of the life insurance contract at the age of 65 or at whatever age he would have to pay the monthly insurance premium for it. I think it's a pretty big bonus. You gotta pay, not get paid. So in this respect, the amounts paid today under the second pillar of the pension under the insurance contract are not at all underestimated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U241	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U242	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You optimisticly hoped there wouldn't be any contradiction with the Constitution, but I wouldn't be that optimistic. If those who suffer damage to health or some other serious damage or something, and they have the right to receive money from it, it violates the principle of equal treatment for those who are not hurt. Yes, I understand that this is completely absurd logic, but it is the same absurd logic that says that those who have not joined the second pillar have the same legitimate expectations of the second pillar as those who have joined. So I'd like to be more careful here, but if you go to this absurd logic, you can always find a contradiction with anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U243	Of course, I can't argue that if I look hard, there's always a contradiction to something. The question is whether this draft could be so much in conflict with the Constitution that the President would not declare it. There's no way I can reach that conclusion in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U244	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U245	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! In answer to Riho Breivel's question, of course, it must also be said that, in addition to this, as he said, he has had the luck of getting a relatively good salary, he has had the happiness of being born in a generation who retires or has already started receiving a pension in a situation where we have significantly more working people than those receiving a pension. So his situation is, in any case, much easier than the situation of young people today who are going to retire in 20 to 30 years. And it is because of them that the second pillar is made, not so much because of those who are retiring today, because today the situation is not critical. So this is something that should definitely be borne in mind in this 60-euro debate. But given that everyone has admitted that this is a good bill, my question is: what would be the reasonable time for the procedure, when could we get to second and third reading of this bill in this Chamber? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U246	This could go to the Commission right now, the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Mr President of the Commission is always prepared to deal quickly with good drafts, to send good drafts in consensual terms, and I think we could get somewhere here, I don't know, by April. Is that realistic? It could be if we wanted to. For me, it's just a matter of will. Really!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U247	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U248	Thank you. Dear waitress, I come to my colleague's concern. He complained that there might be nothing left of EUR 60 in the future if inflation increased. But actually, this bill is the problem. What would happen, or what choice would a colleague have if he retired in two years' time once this bill was adopted?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U249	Anyone who retires after this draft has been adopted and has come into force could choose, in whole or in part, as a single payout option, such as a fund pension, which is also part of the growth of financial markets. That's one clear plus that comes with this bill. Plus a tax credit for payouts. Easy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U250	Mart Võrguship, please! Question two.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U251	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will, in fact, continue on exactly the same subject, Mr Breivel's concern that in 20 years' time, what will be the purchasing power of EUR 60? My question is this: would this bill solve the problem now that, if this insurance contract was concluded, could it be converted into a fund pension contract, because the fund pension, as you said, could solve this problem? And if there is no such possibility of conversion now, could this be considered as a proposal for improvement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U252	My gut here tells me that if we go back to changing something, we're going to run counter to the Constitution. But I'm not a lawyer, maybe some lawyers have a different opinion. However, it is generally the practice that agreements and contracts are not changed retroactively, nor are the laws in this sense. This bill still helps people who retire after this law enters into force. I think it's important because there are 749000 members and every day someone retires. Let's give them a chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U253	Priit Onion, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U254	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question. Several people who do not support the voluntaryisation of the second pillar of pensions, including those involved in the economy and finance, did not, in their time, take advantage of the opportunity to join the second pillar. I have a question: have you personally joined? And the second question is: did you also discuss whether and how to make the voluntary, or third pillar, more attractive to people for those who really want and think about their retirement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U255	Yeah, I'm in. I joined around 2003, i.e. not on the first day, but at the beginning. With regard to the third pillar, we did not talk about anything other than taxation in the framework of this draft, but I do not see any obstacle as to why good proposals on what to change in the third pillar could not be included in the draft between the first and second readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U256	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U257	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I just want confirmation from you. I would have asked Aivar Koka what would happen after the person who lost his or her capacity to work suddenly regains his or her ability to work and has spent his or her money, answering, for example, that he or she would then go back to work and continue collecting a pension in the second pillar. When he actually retires, he's gonna get some more money from there. Is my reasoning correct under this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U258	Thank you. Yeah, that's definitely the idea we've had on this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U259	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U260	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! What are we thinking wrong? If we look at our neighbours, Finns, who created their second pillar system, I think, in 1962, they have 190 billion assembled in that pillar and we have 5 billion. I get the impression that today we want to cut the grain before it's finished. Maybe I'm on the right track, if I share my colleague's concern about my 60 euros here too, that this actually means that we don't have enough people yet, basically we don't have any people who could have done a reasonable full circle if we had this financial assessment when collecting a pension? We are talking here about 40 years of age, right, and about the fact that the value of the pension will certainly not increase in the first few years, as on average, but the compound interest will still occur during the final period. Why don't our opponents want to understand that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U261	I have also wondered why this is not to be understood. For me, practice is also a criterion of truth for examples from other countries, you highlighted Finland. In the Netherlands, the assets of pension funds are even larger, twice as large as GDP. Let it be said that we have 17% of GDP in terms of assets. We've got enough to grow. And it's really national capital. After all, we can look at the matter in such a way that its money, which has been invested abroad, is the owner of the Estonian pension fund and earns the owner's income, earns the interest income of the bond, earns the capital income. I think it is useful, it is useful for all people, that we have managed to achieve a situation where we are actually starting to develop national financial capital. And second of all, has anyone come through the full circle? Of course not. After all, this law has been in force for less than 20 years, so today there are no people in Estonia who have reached even half of the age. We've been through less than half. There can't be that much gathered here today. So let's let this money gather, let the money grow, let our people make a profit. Thus, we have a lower risk of poverty for pensioners, as well as higher pensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U262	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U263	Good President! Honourable waitress! I have a question about the dates of entry into force of this law. Are you sure and convinced that this law could enter into force on 1 July 2020 and not on another date?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U264	Part of the law, yes. When we presented this draft in December, these deadlines were realistic. The deadline for the entry into force of this section, for example with regard to the registrar's changes, was 1 January 2021, precisely to give time for IT solutions. Of course, the longer the duration of proceedings, the more unrealistic these deadlines are. But let's do this quickly, maybe we'll have to shift these deadlines relatively little.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U265	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U266	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! A few moments ago, you just mentioned that after a person has been able to use his money for certain reasons, he may rejoin the pension pillar. Maybe you can help me out a little bit. I couldn't find this place in the bill. How's that reconnection anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U267	The merger has not ended in that case. If a person gets well, which I think is great, and goes back to work, then he is still joining the fund and paying his contribution back there. That's the way it was meant to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U268	Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U269	Thank you. The proposed draft does not make sense of this idea; your answer is not included in the letter. This must probably be clarified in the course of the procedure. However, I have a question about § 1 (3) which states that the holder of the unit has the right to apply for a lump sum or partial payment under the conditions laid down in this Act. Am I right to understand that this draft really provides for such an excellent new opportunity and the right to apply for a payment, but the payment is still only subject to agreement and with the agreement of the other party, so that the law does not give anything more?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U270	The Estonian language is a beautiful language and you can always formulate what you say more precisely. Of course, the idea is that this is a right that no one can take away from a retired person. So let's make the wording more precise and we can move on nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U271	Heiki Hepner, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U272	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! In fact, I would like to touch on the whole self-regulation mechanism of the second pillar. I think one reason why we have had so little productivity is that there is insufficient self-regulation in the funds and also in those who manage the funds. Now that the law adopted has returned to Parliament, the banks have already responded sufficiently and reduced the fees by sensing the risk and feeling afraid that people might otherwise leave the second pillar. In itself, all systems that rely on self-regulation are very good. Right now, it's like you want to go back to the old system. In your vision, how could self-regulation be better ensured, or what, according to your bill, would help to ensure self-regulation, as opposed to today's?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U273	I think that there are still several factors involved in self-regulation or reduced fees. One factor was definitely the regulation that forced it to change the law adopted in 2018, namely the changes made to the best law in 2018. The second reason, which in my opinion has objectively affected it, is the increase in fund volumes. And I think the third reason has been public pressure. I think public pressure is very good. Competition takes things forward. The consumer's word and choice has a great deal of weight. So, in my opinion, with this draft, we will not change this situation in any way, rather make these choices better for the consumer, they have the right to demand more, they have the right to better information. These are the objectives that this bill has.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U274	Maris Lauri, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U275	Thank you. Good waitress! A lot of different issues have been discussed here, but it has not been asked that there is also a question of information in this draft. Perhaps you could open up the reasons why it is important to provide such similar information, standard information from a neutral point of view, and explain what the wider consequences of this step may be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U276	It is true that I also mentioned it in my introductory speech, that I believe that there is one reason why this debate has often been emotional rather than factual, lack of information and fragmentation. I still haven't found a place where you can get an overview of all your pension rights in one click without having to fill out any exits yourself: the first, second and third pillars, not to mention the pension projections, comparable returns and also payout options. This last one, true, cannot be demanded because there is only one payment option. But it is these problems that we are solving with this bill, and I think that if every person could see on one A4 page how his pension rights are, he would be demanding of his pension fund manager and understand how his pension rights are growing in both the first and the second pillars. If the income of the second pillar is low, the income of the first pillar is also low. Such a one-size-fits-all review is necessary and the registrar, or Pension Centre, is a good place and the right place to do so, they are neutral, they have no interest. Each management company would have at least a minor conflict of interest there in some way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U277	Urmas Kruuse, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U278	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The performance of the funds has been criticised very much, and I would like to ask that when the second pillar system was created in Estonia, it has the impression that it was also a political desire that there would be some more conservative opportunities to invest, because there is a need to raise money. They didn't dare take so many risks that they wouldn't lose the money that the country put in there with the human being. If the funds had been very free to invest in the early years, what could have happened during the economic crisis? And the second question: is it a myth that if I start collecting alone, my investment costs may be lower than when I collect a whole great circle of friends or, let's say, with other members? I think it's like a myth. If you look at different transactions, the transaction fees are that the fewer parties there are, the higher these fees should be in practical life.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U279	The second part of your question: yes, it is a myth. Investing small amounts alone is certainly more expensive than doing so through a collective investment scheme, which pension funds are. Free investment opportunities do not exist, transaction costs are always there. Now, first part of your question: Did the pension system in any way knowingly make it impossible to take risks? Well, I've tried to live like this, looking at and judging the decisions made in the past, I still take the view that they were made in good faith, based on the knowledge and information that existed at the time. Of course, it's easy for all of us today to say, "Hey, you should have done this by then." 2008 was a major drop in the stock market, immediately then should have made an amendment to the law that would allow the funds to buy 100%, to invest 100% of the shares from the bottom of the market, and everyone would have received much more money. With the help of the rear-view mirror, it is very easy to say, but it is practically impossible to say. I think it reflects the old-fashioned risk assessments, and maybe people also needed a sense of security that this money would not all go into stock because the shares are too high a risk and could lose everything through them. This was at the time when, for example, we are talking about the beginning of the 2000s, the memory of the Asian crisis, the Russian crisis and the US dotcom crisis. This was accompanied by the knowledge that stock markets were bad. I think the decision made at the time was made in the best of knowledge. Would we do the same system today? Probably not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U280	Siim Kisler, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U281	Thank you. Honourable waitress! First of all, I would venture to correct you a little: today it is also possible to invest completely free of charge, to buy shares through commercial banks without savings and transaction fees. It's a reality today, I suggest you try it out. But my question is this: how do you see whether the second pillar unit is the owner of all the assets in the second pillar, or is it only the owner of the part corresponding to the contributions he has paid? Or is he, however, the owner of the entire unit, including the State's 4% contribution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U282	Thank you for this first clarification. Yes, indeed there are financial inspectorates that store free Baltic securities. But if we are still talking about a well-assembled investment portfolio, it does not only contain the shares of Estonia and other Baltic states, but also covers other regions and these shares are not free of charge. So really free investment is not possible. Now, who owns the second pillar property? The holder of the second pillar property at retirement age is the person who retires. But first it's your personalized contribution to the pension fund, which has a limit that it can't be used until you reach retirement age. That's how it was agreed when this law was made, when the system was created.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U283	Mikhail Lotman, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U284	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! This time my question isn't bully, I just want to know. There has been a statement several times that Finland and elsewhere have exactly the same system as Estonia and that such a system is very successful there. As far as I know, Finland has a different system. I do not know of any country where there is an Estonian system, that part of the first pillar money is taken away and put into the second pillar. Can you give me such an example from a country with exactly the same system as in Estonia? It seems to me that this is Estonia's Nokia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U285	I hope that this is not Estonia's Nokia, however, because the fate of Nokia has not been the best in recent times. I think that the pension system in each country is unique, the two are not exactly the same. Maybe somewhere, I don't know them all. After all, we compare the structure to whether the compulsory funded pension consists, as we do, of the employer's contribution and whether it is managed by the financial sector or the fund manager, or whether it is a solution that includes, for example, the employer's pension, but which also requires compulsory payment. The nuances are different. However, all successful systems are characterised by the fact that they have a mandatory funded pension component, regardless of how it is precisely sewn together with the rest of the system. And how will the first pillar be financed? Nor is there the same formula, for example, that pensions are financed solely by labour taxes. Pensions may also be partly financed by consumption tax and other taxes. It is a question of funding, but not of the size of the pension. I do not think there are two exactly identical systems, because national tax systems and many other things are also different. There are no two countries with the same legal space.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U286	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U287	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! A few moments ago, you answered the question of whose property is the property that is in the second pension pillar, and you said that when you retire, that property will become your property. You later specified that before that, this property would be your property with limitations. The logic is, in fact, that restrictions apply to the use of this property, to the use of property. At the same time, this property is freely used by the pension fund, thus making different transactions. I don't understand your reasoning now. How does your position correlate with that of the Constitution that everyone can freely own and use their property?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U288	After all, the pension fund uses the money in the pension account on the basis of the investment mandate or prospectus that it has approved, and the person who has chosen this pension fund has accepted that his money is invested in this way. So I don't see any contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U289	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U290	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have been bombarded here with questions that you can now invest for free and that there are no more transaction fees or account holding fees. However, as far as I know, the number of private accounts has not exploded, and investment has still been modest. I know from my own hands that I have also invested on my own, that it is very complicated. Could you further explain the differences that an individual has between the possibilities available to invest on his own and those available to pension funds, even in terms of spreading the risks of assets or gaining access to instruments to which a private individual does not actually have access?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U291	You yourself, in part, already gave clues or answers to your question about these differences. One is definitely access to different asset classes, and access also in terms of volume. Maybe bonds or, in fact, shares with a very large nominal value, do not invest on their own; they need to collect quite a bit to get one. In the end, we invest in some kind of investment fund, for the most part. Of course, you can also buy individual shares, but what you said very rightly still requires thorough work. If you buy an individual share or bond, I think you should get a full look at the company's financial statements in advance, you should understand the sector in which this company operates, what its future perspective is, read a lot about what analysts have written about this company with paid information, and maybe you can get somewhere else. I think it's a full-time job.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U292	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Now I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to co-rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U293	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the preparation for the first reading on 20 February of the draft Act amending the Savings Pensions Act, Income Tax Act and the Securities Register Act, which was initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group. The bill was introduced by Andres Sutt, a member of the Riigikogu, and the chairman of the insurance policy department of the Ministry of Finance, Siri Tõniste, and adviser to the same department, Kertu Fedotov, and chief specialist Tõnu Lillelaid, participated in the session. Andres Sutt introduced the purpose and content of the draft. He noted that this was a bill similar in substance to the one rejected by the Riigikogu in December; it was a draft of the same name 91. In particular, the draft aims to address bottlenecks in the system and taxation of funded pensions and to improve the information of collectors. In addition, people will be given the opportunity to increase their contribution by 2% in order to increase pensions at retirement age. One question was asked to Andres Sut. In particular, I asked about the taxation of compulsory funded pensions. Andres Sutt replied that payments from compulsory pensions are currently included in the taxable annual income, but the draft does not include mandatory funded pension payments in the tax accounts anymore. In this respect, this draft is somewhat similar to what was planned during the reform of compulsory funded pension initiated by the Government of the Republic. Siri Tõniste noted that the Government of the Republic discussed the draft, but since the Government itself already has a plan to reform the mandatory funded pension, it was decided not to support the draft. The Commission has taken three consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by today, 26 February; to appoint a rapporteur and to propose that the reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U294	Thanks to the waitress! There don't seem to be any questions. Now we have the opportunity to open negotiations. Riina Sikkut on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U295	Good waitress! Ladies and gentlemen, We've had to build a lot of systems over the last 29 years. Whether we are talking about family medicine, about the education system, all these are complex processes. There are a lot of parties, a lot of different opinions. But somehow we always feel there are other things that can be made better. And we are quietly making these changes so that the teachers are more satisfied and that we can also motivate the family doctors to go to work in the countryside. It's not like if there's a family doctor missing somewhere, we'll decide that you know it, we'll finish it, the Health Insurance Fund won't fund the family doctors anymore, do whatever you want. Or, in the case of schools, if there is a problem with the management of the school or the quality of the education provided there, we do not decide to shut down the school. But in the case of the pension system, these extreme steps seem to us to be necessary for some reason. For 17 years we have built up the system and come to a stage where productivity has increased, investment restrictions have been removed and the fees are reasonable, but now suddenly we find that we should decide something awful quickly, demolish it, change it. In fact, we could still use common sense, as with all other systems, and gradually improve those things that still need to be improved for the second pillar. Andres Sutt very nicely introduced the changes that need to be made in the second pillar system. On the one hand, payouts should be made more flexible in case a person really has a serious health problem before retirement age, which means high costs for him or her. A tax credit should be introduced for the withdrawal of a second-pillar pension so that income tax does not have to be paid. There should also be a greater collection of a safe instrument, such as the second pillar, when we see the savings and financial behaviour of Estonian people, that most of them do not want to invest themselves and keep their money on deposit, then we should give the opportunity to contribute more to the second pillar, where this money still earns something and where there is productivity. So we are building and improving, but we are always keeping the big goal in mind of what our population processes are and that, in fact, we want to enable pensioners in the future to survive more than just survival; that income is higher than the minimum subsistence requirement at retirement age. It's a question of dignity and humanity. So, indeed, this is a good bill. I hope that we can deal with this quickly, and I think there is no reason why anyone in this Chamber should be opposed to such a good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U296	Thank you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, 5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U297	Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, this debate on pension reform has been a very positive process over the years. Overall awareness has grown and it is also welcomed that politicians from different political parties have been able to learn. Those politicians who spoke very clearly a year or less ago that no changes to the current law are now needed during the previous term of office, and this is enough, have today come up with a bill in which they want to change quite a number of things, including the payout system. True, all these changes are, however, fine-tuning and are not very substantive; they are more formal. I asked the waitress what it means to be asked. From this remote, they said it was right. Well, it doesn't! When you read the law, you can see that it means the right to apply and nothing more. Later, you are entitled to § 40 (5) says: 'If the total value of the units belonging to the unit-holder is equal to ten times the national pension (the national pension is about 200 euros today. At or below the H.-V.S. rate, the unit-holder has the right to require the redemption of all units and the corresponding amount to be paid out at the same time. " It's nicely regulated, when you have the right to apply, when you have the right to actually get the money and how much. Much of this bill is still about fine-tuning and eye fraud. But the big argument here was over that 6%. When we recall the debates that took place on the draft tabled by the government, one of the main complaints from the President, the members of the opposition, has been that who owns this 6%, how can it still be used and taken out? And now, look at this, there is a draft, where there is exactly the same barrage on the Constitution of 6%, in certain cases, it is possible to withdraw, as we have heard from the rapporteur of the initiators of the draft today. 2% and 4% are no longer dealt with separately here. And I think you're on the right track. I would also quote what the initiator, Minister, said in 2001 in connection with the procedure of the law currently in force. From this we can read very clearly the will that was reflected in the draft at the time. Here is a quote that is very unambiguous: 'You put 2% there and your property becomes 6%. It's a fundamental, big difference in this whole thing. And if it's financial property, it doesn't make sense to keep him in a sack of potatoes under the bed, but to make him serve. He must be made to serve in such a way that this increase will later lead to favorable results. ' Here we get a very clear answer regarding who owns this 6%. And another short quote: 'After careful consideration, the proposal of insurance companies not to allow the inheritance of mandatory pension fund units was disregarded. In particular, the second pillar of the pension system is an asset collected by a person himself. " It has been repeatedly confirmed that it is the property of man and his property. What Parliament actually meant at the time by the 4% that was transferred to the second pillar is, in my opinion, very clear and unambiguous on the basis of these discussions. The proposal of the Fatherland Party is to exclude this draft from the procedure at first reading. There are two reasons for this. The first reason is that the draft proposed by the government, which is currently in the process, will provide us with a more sustainable pension system for the future than the one that is in force today, and also what the current one that is in the process today will allow. In addition, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs have already proposed the adoption of the draft proposed by the Government in its unaltered state. When the President announces this, much bigger changes have been introduced into the current law and this bill will lose its meaning. If the President does not announce it, we will still have a long procedure and a waiting period, and this draft will wait for this dispute and it will not be practical to deal with it further. The second reason that opposition members and the initiators of this draft themselves have requested is that it be dealt with as soon as possible. Well, the fastest way to deal with this law is to finish it at first reading. And that is why the Isamaa Group asks at first reading to reject Bill No 119 of the Amending Act on funded pensions, the Income Tax Act and the Register of Securities Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U298	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U299	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't really understand how a group can get so out of the information and still go to the remote, talk to an important face and ask questions. First of all, the pension system, which concerns collection, matures optimally for 40 to 50 years. It is, in fact, misleading to judge it now. And in the same way, misleading is the claim that no one has ever said that no changes should be made. After all, the history of our changes has actually been documented in the Riigikogu, and I can also say that during the previous Riigikogu, it was not only limited to realised changes, but I myself proposed that the Ministry of Finance make the disbursements more flexible. And these payout keywords were more or less the same as here: if a person gets seriously ill before reaching retirement age, so that he really needs money for the treatment, or if he loses his ability to work, why should he wait when you see that there is a second pillar and there is nothing more? This was the minimum program that was presented, and now it's actually here in the bill. It was as if a very clever question was asked by Andres, who in general gave a very meaningful overview of the situation and was urged that he did not respond specifically to what these things were. Some kind of hook was chased. Please, but Paragraph 1 (3) states that these conditions will be imposed by the Minister's regulation, because of me, it may also be a government regulation, which says when this money is needed. Nowhere does it say that you have to clear out the entire pillar, that you see what you are now talking about, before you were against clearing the whole pillar. No, it is not said anywhere that the entire pillar will be emptied and unconditionally recovered. There is even a minimum rate, which is necessary under certain conditions to maintain the level of pension. I recommend that everyone, especially those who asked about Finland, read the story of today's Delfi from the Estonian entrepreneur Aku Sorainen, who is Finn. In the title he asks whether Estonia is making the mistake of the century and says yes. He describes the experience of Finland, compares our system to theirs. We see that our system is very minimalist, with great solidarity, by the way, and that the Finnish pension is much more dependent on his former income than we do. Read with thought. It also talks about the importance of this pillar for the Finnish economy, a quarter of which have been invested directly in Finland. We already have this figure at 17%, but its growth has now stopped and gone into recession, thanks to what the government is collapsing. Now, awfully much is being said about this, isn't it, who we had here, I don't want to name his name, or he'll get the word right away, said he'll get 60 euros, and see where only 60 euros to get more out of the second pillar? Once again, I suggest you not take the money out of there after 15 years. It does not have to be the thing we tell our constituents to start emptying them all the time. No! Indeed, it is optimal to collect tens of years. And it certainly doesn't make sense for a high - paying man to empty this pillar while he's still at work. It's a practical suggestion. So there is no need to build a system problem if someone has made an inaccurate decision for themselves. There has also been talk of an earlier pension. One chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the name does not come to mind, talks all the time about what kind of pension was at the beginning of the century, and how now it is always like that and that, of course, everything continues to be that way. But that's the whole point! We also tried to tell you in the Commission that this is not the case. Firstly, the increase in average wages will not remain this way. There is no way that the average wage will grow so fast. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U300	Three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U301	However, capital markets are growing faster than average wages and the economy on average over the long term, because the capital market is a sweeter part of the economy and there is a different operating system. In addition, the advantage of the two pillars is that risks have been mitigated: on the one hand, the risk of the wage market being increased by unemployment or when wages are frozen, on the other hand, the risk of the capital market. There's an element of risk mitigation, but there's definitely an extra way of earning it. If the pension system pays only 20% of the salary... Mr. Michal, would you allow me to speak? I think it was the person behind you, actually. In any case, if you put 16% + 4% + 2% of the pension system, as the 2001 verbatim reports show repeatedly, the pensions will overall be higher. True, if you start taking money out of the pillar very quickly, this 22% contribution will not grow so quickly. In the future, these straight lines or curves can intersect, but in principle they do not intersect. If we allow the system to grow, the money to accumulate, the two-pronged and larger system will guarantee a higher pension than relying on a shrinking generation of workers. And this is the pillar of the funded pension system that critics, second-pillar critics, absolutely don't care about. Whose is the pillar? This topic actually falls within the scope of scolasticism. Ownership always has limitations, and these limitations are just a reference here to the original verbatim. The conditions under which property is available. There's no problem or argument over who it belongs to. There is even so much that men will lose out in the sense that they will live less, much less, than women when they reach retirement age. But you can't tell the difference. That's why you can't say you see, property is exactly so men get their share, women get theirs. No, take the average. Someone dies sooner, somebody later, both men and women. There has also been a lot of talk about the question of return, isn't it? We've become smarter when we mature. In the beginning, the interest environment was such that it seemed that it was all at risk, and therefore the offer of interest funds was mandatory. But it's still arranged. In 17 years, new regulations have been introduced, yields are different. And as Riina Sikkut said, the situation has changed dramatically, so there is no point in criticizing things that were done in the best way. In the meantime, productivity was limited by the crisis of the century; it is no longer coming; excessive regulation was limited; small volumes and high charges were limited; and the excessive self-regulation of fund managers was limited, but this has all changed. So in this sense, let us not demolish a system that can be made flexible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U302	Thank you. Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U303	I'm just gonna give Jürgen a little calculation. If the pension has increased four times in the last 17 years, in the next 17 years, this 60 euro could become 240 euros, but unfortunately under this law the second pillar will not be indexed and 60 euros will still be 60 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U304	Dear friends! We have certain rules in order to hold a debate. Jürgen, line.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U305	Thank you. From the replicate: my name was named and my words were mutilated. I pointed out that 22% of the pension will be higher. And if this period is extended for a longer period, if it is midway through the middle, the second pillar contribution period is about ten years, then overall, the second and first pillar pensions are clearly higher. About 30% is the average for 40 years, and this difference may be even greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U306	No more lines! Officially, there is no more desire to participate in the negotiations, so we are preparing for the final procedures and the formulation of our position. We have the proposal of the commission to conclude the first reading of Bill 119 and we have another proposal: the Isamaa Group asks at first reading to reject the draft law amending the Act on funded pensions, the Income Tax Act and the Law on the keeping of securities registers initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party 119. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the utmost attention now. I am voting on the proposal of the Fatherland Group to reject draft law 119. Please take a stand and vote. There were 52 members of the Riigikogu in favour of rejecting the bill, 41 against. The bill fell out of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U307	Let's get to the next item on the agenda. That's... Shh! Now, please calm down! Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that everything is extremely excited, but I do have a strong wish that we should start discussing the sixth item on the agenda. To this end, the Government of the Republic has initiated draft Act 146 amending the Social Welfare Act, the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities, the State Fees Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. I'd like a presentation from Social Minister Tanel Kiige.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U308	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today, you would really be introduced to bill 146, the Social Welfare Act, the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities, the State Fees Act and the Amendment to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. This draft amends the provisions of the Social Welfare Act concerning shelter services, replacement and aftercare services, social rehabilitation services and special care services. [[I'll tell you more about them later.]] The draft also amends the provisions of the Social Benefits Act for persons with disabilities by simplifying the procedures for identifying and applying for disability in certain cases. The State Fees Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act are also amended. In terms of simplicity, I would treat all four blocks of law separately. Let's start with the amendment of the Social Welfare Act and the changes that it provides for. The children's shelter service is first. Paragraph 36 (2) of the Social Welfare Act entered into force on 1 January this year, which introduced the requirements for the preparation of a person directly providing the service to a child receiving a shelter service. In order to provide the child receiving the shelter service with a reasonable period of time for the person directly providing the service to complete the training provided for by law, we will complement the conditions for completing the training by giving him or her the opportunity to complete this training within one year of taking up his or her duties, i.e. give him or her a certain transitional period. It is true that this could have been done earlier, but in practice this desire has come to light and we will, at least afterwards, take it to law as a proposal. This law also specifies the name of the continuing training of the person who directly provides the child with the service. The second service, which is covered by this section, is a substitute care service, which also changed significantly from 1 January 2020, i.e. the maximum number of children in replacement care in a replacement home and family home. If there were up to eight children in one family for the time being, up to six children may belong to the family from 1 January inclusive. We want to introduce some flexibility into this provision so that, in certain cases, it is possible to provide a service in a substitute and family home in a larger family than six children, if the situation requires it in the interests of the children themselves. Above all, we refer to biological families when, for example, there are more than six children from one family in a substitute home or family home, as well as other exceptional situations where separation of children, for example, if they have been living together for a long time, together, would not make sense for the children. In addition, for this provision to be reasonably controlled, the Social Welfare Act also provides for the requirement that in the case of a replacement and family home, as well as in the case of a care family, the maximum number of children is to be coordinated by the Social Insurance Board. This may require the consent of both the guardian and the Social Insurance Board. In addition, the Social Welfare Act will be amended to ensure greater legal clarity for young people who continue to complete their education while in post-care. The idea is to support to a greater extent children-young people who, on the basis of age, are no longer part of the substitution care target, but basically they are still engaged in studies, or education, so that they do not have the necessary support at that point. The law is also extended by giving local authorities the possibility to finance after-care services from the Fund, even if the young person has interrupted his/her studies after leaving replacement care, but decides to continue them after a while. In particular, all these requirements stem from the so-called life itself and have developed into practice. Indeed, there are concerns that children in aftercare have lost support or are deprived of the necessary support because they are not in aftercare. They may be of an adult age, but their support and opportunities are clearly narrower than those of a young person growing in an average family. It is therefore reasonable for the State and municipalities to further support them. A separate service is a social rehabilitation service. This particularly concerns the target group of people affected by primary psychosis. For the first time, about 300 people get sick every year and mostly young people, school or working age, 75% of whom are forecast for recovery. In order to support primary psychosis sufferers, the right to take over the obligation to pay a fee for a social rehabilitation service and the right to apply for a fee outside the queue is extended. The idea is to grant the right to a social rehabilitation service based on the assessment of the treatment team in all age groups. These applications do not need to be submitted separately and disability or reduced capacity to work is not required. The obligation to pay the fee is taken over outside the queue, the Social Insurance Board takes a decision within 10 days. The fourth block of amendments to the Social Welfare Act is special care services. The biggest change here is to lay down the requirements for this service in a ministerial regulation instead of a law and consequently the relevant sections of the law itself are repealed. The aim of the amendment is to create the possibility of making requirements flexible. On 1 January 2020, the requirement that special care may be provided directly by an operating supervisor who has at least secondary education and who has completed training in accordance with the scheme established by law began to apply. We are also introducing a similar concept, or clarification, of a transitional period, according to which the Code of Conduct requires the programme to complete the training within two years from the start of work. This means that it is still possible to recruit a person who does not yet meet the qualification requirements, but who will do so within two years. The draft also makes the wording of the law somewhat more precise, clarifies the concept of leading mental disorder, replaces certain terms in the Rules of Procedure (to be'announced orally or in writing' with 'promote') and makes such minor changes. With regard to § 2 of the draft law 'amendment of the Social Benefits Act for disabled people', it is very important here that progress is made towards reducing bureaucracy, towards simplifying the lives of people with disabilities. For example, it will be possible to determine the duration of a disability for a child with an unchangeable or progressive permanent condition not only for three years but until he or she reaches the age of 16 years. In the case of adults, the identification of a person of working age who is excluded from working capacity is important. Conditions that exclude work ability are, according to law, grade 4 cancer, dialysis, controlled breathing, established dementia, severe or deep mental retardation, persistent bed sickness. The amendment in the bill will allow these children to identify an unchangeable or progressive permanent condition even in the case of severe or deep disability and the duration of the severity of the disability, as stated, until the age of 16, thereby reducing the unnecessary burden and inconvenience of both their children and their family members, and I would say that, in fact, the workload is also in the national perspective. The amendment also simplifies the procedure for children who are not in a position to be compensated for by medicines, aids and other services and who, unfortunately, have no forecast of improvement in the light of current medical knowledge and medicines. The draft also complements the law with the idea that the Social Insurance Board is obliged to re-evaluate the child's need for help when receiving information about the change in the status of a disabled child. If, however, it should appear that the condition has improved, an additional assessment shall be carried out where necessary. The obligation to inform the Social Insurance Institution of a change in the status of a disabled child exists for any person who has the relevant information. The law also includes a mandate rule for the establishment of more precise conditions and procedures for such situations by regulation of the Minister of Social Affairs. As has been said before, in the case of adults, the draft provides the Social Insurance Board's expert doctor with the opportunity to determine the degree of disability and disability on the basis of health data in the event of exclusion of a person of working age. It is an important principle that we do not always require people to make different requests in different systems in a situation where the state has information, that is to say, once again, it does not impose unnecessary burdens on people, unnecessary procedures both in people's own views and in the views of the authorities. These decisions can be made on the basis of health data. From now on, no restrictions should be described by area of activity, etc., in order to establish the severity. We will thus reduce the target group's time spent seeking to identify the severity of the disability. Article 146 (3) of the draft law concerns the amendment of the State Fees Act. It complements the State Fees Act by setting the rates of state fees for processing the social rehabilitation service issued by the Social Insurance Board, the shelter service and the application for authorisation to provide general care services outside the home. This is based on the current state fee for examining applications for social services licences, which is EUR 32. Paragraph 4 of the Act 146 concerns the amendment of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. This change gives the unemployment fund the opportunity, in justified cases, to use more flexible methods to advise the unemployed, by telephone and by electronic means, rather than inviting them to advice. In particular, this can be seen as simply updating the law, as the number of possible channels for providing counselling services to people has increased considerably at present. Paragraph 5 concerns the entry into force of the Act. In essence, this law enters into force in general, with a certain distinction. Paragraph 2 is intended to enter into force as early as 1 April 2020. At the moment, it may no longer be realistic, perhaps depending on the Committee on Social Affairs what this possible date will be. Paragraph 3 is set to enter into force on 1 June 2020. One of the paragraphs 8 to 13 and 16 of paragraph 1 shall enter into force on 1 January 2021. That concludes my brief review. As far as I am concerned, perhaps I would like to mark the fact that certain additional proposals by the Ministry on the concerns expressed by the public in the meantime concerning support for children with certain diagnoses, to whom no disability has yet been assigned, as well as the definition of certain minimum obligations for substitution and after-care services in the media, may also be included in the law. This is currently given to the "work organisation" of the local government, but a minimum amount of 240 euros has been set at the level of the law, as well as support for the parent of a specific care family for a quarter of the minimum wage, depending on the child. Both of these principles maybe we're going to have a little bit of a review. This proposal may still come in the course of reading this draft, but maybe there will be a separate draft. Just for information, I'll mark it. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U309	Thank you very much, dear waitress. You have questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U310	Good manager! Dear Minister, I look at the amendments to § 36 (2). We are talking today about children without parental care and family home and replacement home. It provides an opportunity for a person to provide this service to a child. If point 1 states very clearly what kind of education and what kind of experience should be, then point 2 gives the possibility that there will be a person with secondary education who has no experience and can have a full year's work. How can he even come to work if he doesn't have that experience? Did the ministry officials, when they prepared this bill, realize that the child who went to the orphanage had been deprived of the care of his parents, a broken soul? Giving any person who has no experience in dealing with these children an opportunity to be a family mother or an employee for a year! In my opinion, of course, it is a bad thing that this law does not contain what the requirements under paragraph 3 really are this year. But as a founder of an orphanage, I have a question of how such a point has gotten into this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U311	Thank you for your question. As I pointed out, it has not come from life itself, because it is very difficult to find a workforce in the field. When we talk about the country's long-term direction, the country would rather move towards a clearer qualification. As of 1 January 2020, these requirements for the preparation of the person who directly provides the service to the child receiving the shelter service have only come into force. But just seeing that there hasn't been the necessary time to complete the training is really a proposal to supplement the law and offer the opportunity to complete this training within a year of starting the job. Compared to previous practice, we have actually tightened up these requirements. Now, as has been said, the feedback from real life is that in order to find and recruit the necessary labour force, as this qualification may not be in the bud, it would make sense to allow a transitional period so as not to create a situation where the necessary staff will not be found at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U312	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U313	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! A couple of years ago, we worked here in the Riigikogu on amendments to the law on replacement care, which gave us great responsibility for organising the replacement care service for the local government. I remember from processing this bill that there were two problems upstairs. Firstly, whether local authorities are prepared to take this responsibility on their shoulders and, secondly, the qualification requirements for replacement care workers. We have now read in the press that millions of euros have remained for the benefit of the untapped substitute care children of local governments, although indeed, as my colleague has said, these are often traumatised children and the services that they can be provided with. What are your plans to motivate local authorities to use this money more for those in need?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U314	Thank you very much. Once again, a very important question. There was a meeting with local government representatives this morning, and there were seven in the order of magnitude at the table. I hope I don't hurt anyone. Some of them didn't make it. In addition, there were representatives of the Association of Cities and Municipalities, the Social Insurance Board, the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Population and, of course, representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs. We were really discussing why we are in such a situation that the service that has been transferred more than two years ago has not actually succeeded to the expected extent. One of the goals that was then, and which, I think, is shared by the majority in Parliament, was that there would be more children who could grow up in a care family, essentially in a family, or grow in a real family environment, and that there would be fewer children who would have to grow up using an old word, in a common language, in an orphanage, in today's replacement or family home. But unfortunately, we see that this objective has not been achieved much in two years. It is true that finding a care family, taking responsibility for it is obviously very difficult, but there is certainly a question here too of what is the support of the municipality, which is these measures. Clearly, if we look at today's practice across the country, we will see that more than 50 municipalities have missed at least 10% or more of these resources. We also know that, to the detriment of common practice, the minimum rates in the Social Welfare Act for supporting children and families are to be interpreted as a 'normative rule', i.e. the EUR 240 which is intended for child-related expenditure, is also the average amount that is actually paid in the country. There are municipalities that pay more, but most have taken over this EUR 240 directly, although this is the minimum. In the same way, with the parents' specific allowance or parental salary, it depends on how someone formalised it within a quarter of the minimum wage, which, unfortunately, has also remained a'standard' or a norm, although it was also intended as a minimum. In fact, the need to care for a specific child should be taken into account both in supporting the family parent and in covering the cost of the child. Of course, it is also possible for the municipality to contribute to various services and activities, it is a psychological or psychiatric service, it is a support service or it is also a contribution to prevention. It's been done with strength. However, today's round table also showed that the municipalities themselves were quite prepared to admit that it was not fully targeted, as, perhaps, due to the administrative reform, the volume of services offered by the municipalities has increased and the particular service may have been sufficiently neglected. We very much hope that this situation will change. At the time, the Social Insurance Institution gave specific instructions to municipalities on how this service could be provided, what are the services to cover, what are the costs to cover. It was very clear that the minimum legal requirement was a minimum; it was not meant as a "standard', but that the municipality would have to take a decision on a case-by-case basis, which was justified and which was not. Now, as a result of today's round table, we will send a summary or a guide to the municipalities. Well, I don't know if the guide, but the guidelines, how we can see what other services we can offer, what opportunities the municipality has to use money to reach the target group. Similarly, as I once pointed out, there is probably a debate to be held on whether we should also change something at the level of the law. A simple example: this 240 is in law today as a number. I think that this is already, in principle, a bad practice in terms of legislation, because we fix one specific amount, 240, and then in ten years' time, we will be in a situation where this 240 euro will no longer cost anything. In any event, this amount must be gradually adjusted. It would be funny if every year, sorry for the expression, we started to change the law to increase one sum. It should either be indexed or, for example, brought to the level of the ministerial regulation, which would provide an opportunity to increase it more flexibly. The other thing is the parents' allowance, whether a quarter of the minimum wage per child is sufficient or not. It seems to me personally that both amounts could be increased on the one hand and, on the other hand, that additional services could really be provided and support measures could be provided to municipalities. For the first year, we could say that it was a year of residence, the balance was 1.8 million, or about 10% of the funds. But I see that in the second year, unfortunately, this trend is rather growing, and it can be said that the local governments have not drawn any major conclusions from the surplus of the first year. Of course, it is reasonable now to discuss whether legislative intervention should take place or whether it would be enough to have guidelines that we should not be in a situation where, for example, at the beginning of 2021, looking at the costs of 2020, we would see that the balance has increased further. That is far from being the point of view of the state or local governments. The aim is that this money should reach as much as possible in the hands of families and children in need, who in Estonia are in the order of 1000. It's a sadly large number. This surplus could be some single percentage or so, but not 20% across the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U315	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U316	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this law also amends the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. This means that the possibility of an e-employment fund will be created. I quote from the explanatory memorandum, which says that by the end of 2020, the unemployment fund will also introduce a model of decision support based on data analysis, which will help the advisor to assess more accurately the risk of long-term unemployment of the job seeker and to find out... I don't count to the end. We know that algorithms and artificial intelligence are used to make decisions on the basis of a large number of data; this is already a completely practical matter in many countries. Could the e-Industrial Fund use any algorithms in its data analysis, or what are your plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U317	Thank you for your question. This is an issue that we have discussed in the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund a few times. Let's be honest, this is once again an extremely sensitive issue. If the unemployment fund defines the possibility for a person to remain in a long-term unemployment risk or something else, how do you say it to a person? That's the first question. The motivation for a person's job search can be very counterproductive if he is given some kind of assessment based on an algorithm or something else. In this situation, we can achieve a self - fulfilling prophecy. But the principle of using different forms of machine learning or also algorithms is certainly correct. I think that's where the unemployment fund is headed. The need for data processing is often high. We can see that certain links are very clear, that it is the result of education, language skills, previous work experience or, in fact, the unemployment period, as well as the probability of finding a job due to possible health problems, or the probability of not finding it so easily. Yes, this data could be processed to a greater extent with the help of a computer and the person would receive a pre-filled assessment, which in turn he can supplement and on the basis of which he can provide the best advice and service to the customer. But what we have really been debating in the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund is how exactly this should be put to the client, in this case the unemployed or even the person at risk of unemployment, convincingly, so that this in turn would not have a negative impact on the job search or would not create a situation where the person feels that the state has told him that he does not have the opportunity to find a job anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U318	Aivar Chef, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U319	Good manager! Dear Minister, Since 1 January, there must be families with six children, no bigger ones. Perhaps each of the three families, which was in December, must now have four families. The question is simple: do we have this fourth extra family everywhere and there are six children in every family since 1 January? The second question to that. We're saying we want to send orphanage children to families if we can. Then the orphanage family, which has five children instead of six, is immediately missing a bounty. Has it been discussed how this will be compensated for by a good family who has been able to send their child to the real family so that he does not get into his pants by losing his bounty?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U320	In this sense, it is not quite the case that all families across Estonia would have been eight so far. It depends on the municipality, depending on the region. There have been families with less than six children and six children, and there are more than six children today. In fact, it has been an agreement that, as a result of our intention to amend the draft law, we will have a flexible view of possible restructuring. Unfortunately, I have also visited an institution that says that we do have six children from one family and it is known that the seventh is coming, so what do we do with the seventh? Unfortunately, there are examples. Of course, our first preference and goal is for children to spend as little time as possible in a replacement and family home and either to find their way back to their real parents, to their homes, to their real family, or to be able to live in a care family. But unfortunately, it doesn't always materialise. The motivation of service providers to support children when they get home, I think, certainly it is important already on a value-based basis and in the light of the sense of mission, not only to look at economic arguments. But, of course, the financing model is also based on the number of children in the family. Purely: if we did not have this problem and the number of children in need of replacement and family homes could be a bigger challenge, but we would rather not see a very rapid drop in the number of children at the moment, i.e. going to family homes. I may be wrong about numbers now, but I say that 130 children in the order of size live in a care family, the other over 800 are institutionalised and about 80 are in aftercare. These are the orders of magnitude. I may have been a little lost in my head.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U321	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U322	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. If you can't answer that question, I'll be pleased if you send an e-mail. But I'm still asking because I care. While dedicated money, such as income support, is allocated to local governments, the Ministry has a continuous overview, with the accuracy of the month, of how much of this money has been spent. You have already given an example here that the end of the year's balance in the case of children in substitution care was known to the Ministry. Is it possible, according to the computer system, to see the use of money in the municipality, for example, in half a year, and then start immediately and perhaps then support the municipalities, so that either the Social Insurance Board or the Ministry will go to the aid or via the local government association? Why do we wait until the end of the year and then discover it? Is there a chance or isn't there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U323	In fact, to a certain extent, it is being done. It is done in such a way that 90% of the funds are first paid at the beginning of the year for a given replacement and aftercare service and 10% is paid in the middle of the year due to a change in the number of children in the municipality. For example, if the number of children in some municipalities has increased, it will gain more money and others will get less. Pretty one by one individual analysis of how one municipality or another has gone with a percentage, not so thoroughly done to my knowledge. Theoretically, this option would be, but in practice it is complicated by the fact that invoices and other costs for different services may not all come so accurately. In fact, we will only get the overall picture by the end of January or the beginning of February, for example, for the previous year. This means that it is difficult to decide when evaluating by the middle of the year. Perhaps there are very few children and families in a particular municipality and very large activities planned for autumn, which may actually end up with a budget deficit. There are also municipalities that have a deficit on this service line. But I agree that, by looking at this two-year practice, the state and the Social Insurance Board must probably start to monitor somewhat more closely the situation so that I really would not be here in a year's time and say that unfortunately, the third year in a row went as it did.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U324	Liina Kersna, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U325	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, As I understand it, these discussions are still ahead of us, how better to motivate local authorities to use these millions for substitute care. But you indicated that you have sent a letter to local authorities containing a list of services that could be offered to children in substitution care. What are these services? What's the department suggesting?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U326	I would point out that there was a meeting on this subject today, and as a result of this consultation, we will send a letter. Perhaps today, there were really seven municipalities at our desks and then, as has been said, some public authorities. 79 municipalities are known to exist in Estonia. We will make a brief overview of this consultation, plus possible legislative amendments, in case we come up with them. I have plans to meet further with the representatives of the care families on this subject. We have met before, at the time, very much was for bureaucracy, for reporting, for the burden of proof of expenditure, but it varies greatly between municipalities. As far as these possible services are concerned, one is also a prevention block, family support services already before, at the beginning, so that the child does not enter these services. The second block is definitely psychiatric services, psychological services, various support services that a child may need, regardless of whether he or she grows in a substitute home, family home or care family. There is certainly more service needs depending on the specific unique needs of the child, it is a need for a logo beet service or there is any other need, such as language learning, which may be a specific child in a specific area. Unfortunately, children in different regions also have quite serious health concerns and disability assignments, which can inevitably mean additional costs for both the family and the child both when they are young and in the future. Here too, the municipality could provide more support. That's the list we're gonna make. The proposal in the law, I think, does not make sense; rather, it should be at the level of the guide. To a certain extent, these instructions have been issued by the Social Insurance Board, but it seems to require some concreteisation. The Social Insurance Board also said that, very often when communicating with municipalities, local governments are somewhat like surprising feedback that they have so far financed one or the other service from their budget, but could also have financed with the money provided by the state and actually provided this service on a larger scale, while also spending better on the amount of resources for replacement and aftercare. This shows that this information picture is probably not always uniform in the municipalities of 79 municipalities, and it is justified to provide such reminders and examples by the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U327	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Signe Riisalo, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U328	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his thorough presentation. I'm glad you ask him a lot of questions, and I'm ready to answer it myself, but maybe I'll have to do a little less. On 17 February, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft under discussion with 146, which amends, in addition to the Social Welfare Act, the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities, the State Tax Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. In addition to the Minister for Social Affairs, who introduced the draft, the Minister's advisor and the two legal advisers of the Ministry, the Commission had been invited to discuss the draft. The six main issues raised during the Commission's debate were as follows: First of all, the members of the Commission raised the issue of the granting of a transitional period for staff to train and prepare for special care services, but the same transitional period does not apply to general care services organised by local authorities, in contrast to special care services organised and funded by the State. Is that equal treatment? At the same time, social welfare has indeed addressed an increasingly chronic problem in which to find workers who would be suitable for both personal characteristics and to assist clients with their skills. The Minister explained that indeed, the activities of general care homes are of a somewhat different nature, that there are a number of people working in different occupations and that this work can be organised there. All the more so since, in the case of the general care home service, which is organised by the local government, the proportion of the customer and employees is not prescribed by law, the freedom to organise the work is greater, contrary to the special care service, where the state also gives clear legal proportions as to how many employees per person are required. It is true that special care involves people who can be very complicated in their behavior, and dealing with them requires special skills. This may also be the reason for the emergence of risk points if people are inadequately prepared. As a second question, the Commission leader noted that it is good and reasonable to consider that, when determining the degree of disability for children, it is not necessary to identify a child's disability every three years, as the law currently provides for. However, the question arose as to whether or not there would be a situation in which the child's condition would not be reduced to a more severe degree of disability. The explanation was that today it is rather a concern that parents are obliged to contact the Social Insurance Board every three years in order to determine the severity of the child's disability in order to maintain it at all, and in fact it is unreasonable for the child, his parents or guardians, as well as expert doctors working at the Social Insurance Board, to have an unreasonable administrative burden. Children are known to have a three-year period for detecting disability severity shorter than adults with five years of age. In practice, we also know that children's parents and guardians are very motivated to re-establish disability if the child's condition deteriorates. Since 1 January, this motivation has also been greatly enhanced by the amendment to the law on disability benefits, which significantly increases the monthly allowance for disabled children. The question was whether the Social Insurance Institution could come automatically to assess the degree of disability of the child. In fact, this is not possible because, in order to determine the degree of disability, a child's legal representative, usually his or her parent or one of his or her parents, must make an application and contact the Social Insurance Board. However, the Social Insurance Board is certainly more proactive every day and the parents of the child will be contacted upon receipt of the notification. The third issue addressed by the Commission related to primary psychosis in humans, not to the determination of the severity of disability, but to the provision of rehabilitation services to them. Here the Member of the Commission had a question, as a result of the explanatory memorandum and the presentation of the draft submitted to us, that it was only people with a diagnosis of schizophrenia. In response, we found that schizophrenia has been illustrated as a similar pilot project in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs was carried out in the period from 2016 to 2018 and the state has very precise data on it. This was therefore an illustrative example of the introduction. The fourth issue was the issue of the thresholds raised by a Member of the Commission, four children and six children, which provide for four children in a care family and six in a replacement home or family home. The bill now allows this figure to be increased if it is in the interests of the children. In particular, this has been the case with siblings who were previously raised in one family and whose separation is clearly against the interests of children. Although this was not said in the Commission, I would like to make it clear that the current law also allows this. The guardians of children who wish to be placed on the service and their children who already have the service must give their consent to it, such a possibility of more children than the threshold is available in the law. The current law strengthens this situation, i.e. it is not enough for the guardians of all children, but also for the Social Insurance Board to be informed and approved. The state has taken a stronger position and, through the Social Insurance Board, centrally checks that these arrangements are made in the interests of the child. The question to be clarified was that if children are placed in a single replacement home or family family more, whether the provider will also receive more financial resources. The answer from the representatives of the ministry was in the affirmative, because indeed, contracts are made on a child-specific basis and there is an additional amount for each child. For care families, this means at least EUR 240 per month per child for his or her personal expenses, and a quarter of the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic is what goes to the care family to support his or her activities per child. The sixth issue was the entry into force of the law already concerned by the Minister of Social Affairs. Indeed, the Commission obviously needs to adjust it, not all the dates of entry into force can be realised, but this will be discussed by the Commission. It was also a matter that was not directly relevant to this draft, but the social minister, Mr Tanel Kiik, in the Commission, touched on the issue of children who have the problem of phenylketonuria and for whom it is essential to find additional resources to reduce the burden on the family in a situation where such a diagnosis is not justified as a basis for determining the degree of disability in order to better address the material livelihood of their children's families and the needs of their children. These debates and debates are still ahead of us in this big Chamber before we have a second reading. I also support with two hands the Minister's proposal, which he said today on the board, concerning the problem of the financing of substitution care and aftercare, i.e. the administrative capacity and awareness of local authorities. I stress these children are in charge of the local government. Local government employees are the only people in this world who, just as we stand up for our children as parents, [must stand up for these children]. They must make reasonable and wise choices in the amount of money that the State has given them. Unfortunately, they have not. Now to the Commission's decisions, which were consensual. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading. The Commission decided to appoint a speaker to be a rapporteur before you and to give ten working days for the time of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U329	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. Once again, thank you for your presentation. Do the political groups want to negotiate? Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U330	Mr President, honourable colleagues, and the Minister for Social Affairs. Today's first-reading draft Act 146 on Social Welfare, Social Benefits for Persons with Disabilities, State Tax Act and Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, which was initiated by the Government, can be said to be good, but also has some errors. Just the last ones I'm gonna make my speech. One might say that this is another cluster law, for which the special care section is probably the last to be welded on. At the same time, however, the most problematic part of this draft concerning special care is. According to this draft, the intention is to move the so-called minimum requirements for the provision of special care services out of the law into the ministerial decision-making area. This is justified by flexibility, but if bad things come together it can lead to poor quality, sometimes dangerous services for people in the institution. From the table at the explanatory memorandum, I quote the opinion of the Estonian Society of Psychiatrists: 'This is a position requiring expertise and skills. (It's in special care, then. H. K.) Customers have special needs. As an operational supervisor, a person who has not received any preparation for the provision of the relevant service cannot take up his/her duties. A code of conduct for unprepared work has a higher risk of burn-out and quitting. As a result of the flow of the frame, a number of supervisors will be able to stop working as a code of conduct before they can begin their studies in the scheduled training. Without professional qualifications, it is not possible to provide the service in a high-quality manner without harming the interests of the customer and saving itself. ' If, at the level of the law, we impose on local authorities the educational requirements of different services [in relation to the obligation], as are the requirements of people working in the general care home, as well as children's guards and other social workers, and still in order to ensure the quality of service, the state is taking a step backwards here in relation to the services it offers itself. The country should be an example here, a guide. I have been in contact with people who are very well-known in the field of special care. As an example, I will bring here Tiina Kangro, Member of the Management Board of the Careers' Association. I also have a number of people, or loved ones, whose children, adult children, are already attending special care services, called and wrote. They are concerned about the quality of service. These people have identified problems that can become a serious threat to the people receiving the service. Let me give you some examples of danger. A dangerous issue is the desire to employ a maintenance worker instead of one of the supervisors. Such relaxation cannot be done for all special care groups. This would only be possible for those in need of combined disability care (lams, immobilised recipients). Today, however, there are very few in institutions, cared for by parents at home, because institutions often lack the right environment for them and are often not taken into account for the service. In fact, there is a huge problem here that needs to be resolved already today, with a lack of service places. When we talk about other target groups, such as people with intellect disabilities, autists, people with mental disorders, people with mental illness who are in the care service, even if the care worker is in the profession, he does not have the preparation to do with them the duties of guidance they need in order to obtain a normal service. However, even today's minimum requirements, which are the ratio of codes of conduct per recipient, are often not enough for more difficult groups to receive a service. A further reduction in the number of Codes will change the meaning of an important service. That's not the reason they can't find the staff. So how do little privates find it? That is just one of the reasons. But municipalities also often lack employees in general care homes. When the organisation of the managers of general care homes approached the Social Affairs Committee and the Ministry in the spring to consider extending the educational requirement for a certain period of time, it was abandoned. I argue that the municipalities and the very difficult service offered by the state, special care, have been treated differently. The Social Welfare Act has minimum requirements. Well, they should stay on the law level. The minimum requirements in the law do not interfere with flexibility. On page 12 of the explanatory memorandum, the Ministry of Social Affairs itself explains: '... there will be no major changes in service requirements initially, but changes will be planned in the coming years. The baseline data for the changes are derived from the results of the SKA's personalised service model testing. " Wouldn't it be wise to wait for the results to happen rather than prematurely to change the law if we didn't know the results of this great new model? Finally, a topic that needs to be addressed in the case of special care services, which was discussed in the context of the previous composition of the Riigikogu and the previous amendment of the law: a more flexible solution is needed for people who wish to be away from the service for more than two months, as the law currently allows. If a normal family provides their child's services (city housing, 24/7 services, etc.), it is normal for him or her to wish to take away his or her loved one for Christmas break, for the summer period. That is a good thing, because a person maintains a bond with his family. This period may be longer than two months. We no longer live at a time when people came to special care from an orphanage, and it was a topic that this law also touched on from a replacement home. A quick solution is needed here. If you are now asking for a reply from the Social Insurance Board, this answer is: cancel the service and put yourself back in line. That's not the solution. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U331	Thank you. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. The negotiations are therefore closed. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 146. No other proposals have been received, so the first reading is closed. The deadline for tabling amendments is 11 March at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U332	We will discuss the seventh item on the agenda, which is the number 127 of the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Küti and Riina Sikkut. This is the first reading and the waitress is Jevgeni Ossinovski, a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U333	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, After yesterday's second attempt to abolish the reform of the pharmacy failed, it is indeed appropriate to discuss those proposals that lead forward rather than backwards. And I have the honour to introduce them to the Riigikogu today. These are the two drafts that we have submitted to the Riigikogu with colleagues from the Social Democratic Party Group. Before I go to a specific draft, 127 SE, I say that, in order to understand the meaning and purpose of this draft, the draft itself is short and quite simple, of course, it is important to understand the context in which these concrete proposals are made and what problem we are solving. In Estonia, the market situation in the pharmaceutical sector is known to be far from optimal, to say the least. Estonian patients, people paying far too much for medicines, and this is due to the prevailing market situation. How much we pay or overpay is possible in different ways, but one of the easiest ways to find out that excessive payments are being made is to compare the way the National Audit Office has done in 2013 and again, at my request, in December last year, prices that wholesalers allow for retail pharmacies, at the prices at which wholesalers sell to hospital pharmacies. The hospital pharmacy is not a hospital pharmacy, I say this to those colleagues who do not come into contact with this area every day, but a pharmacy that supplies the hospital departments and does not currently carry out retailing. This analysis showed that hospital pharmacies receiving medicines from wholesalers through procurement, where different wholesalers offer their own prices in the procurement process, receive on average 10% or slightly more medicines than retail pharmacies. This is despite the fact that many hospital procurements are smaller in volume than the required volume of medicinal products in the entire chain of retail pharmacies. Well, it may seem that 13% is not so much apart, but if you look at the contents of this table a little bit more closely, for the 100 most popular medicines with the highest sales volume, the difference between hospital pharmacies and retail pharmacies is 60%, for the top 10 medicines almost 100%. Of course, there is a certain specificity in the procurement logic of hospitals as well as in retail pharmacies, but as a whole it is important for one simple reason. In general, there is a fundamental problem with the organisation of the pharmaceutical market in Estonia: we have several wholesalers, but there is no competition between wholesalers in general. In essence, competition is evident only in the case of procurement by hospitals where wholesalers compete with each other in order to obtain the capacity of hospitals. Why is there no competition on the wholesale market? Margus Linnamäe and its brother's wholesale company have a market share of about 50%, the German parent company Tamro has a market share of 25 to 28%, and the Lithuanian Baltfarma has a market share of just under 10%. You could say, you see, there are three companies, so the situation isn't so bad. The problem is that these wholesale companies do not compete with each other because they have their own pharmacy chains and they sell their medicines to their own pharmacy chains. And the pharmacies that they own do not have the freedom to obtain or buy medicines from other wholesalers so that there is competition between wholesalers. They must buy from their owner on such terms and prices as the owner tells them. The fact that there is precisely a competition problem in the wholesale market is not my invention. This is something that has been known to the Estonian state for many years. The Office of Competition, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Supreme Court, the Chancellor of Justice have drawn attention to this. This problem is common knowledge. There are several companies, but there is no competition between them and this is not an optimal situation for the patient. Now the question is how do we then create this competition on the wholesale market in the way that it happens, for example, in the case of hospital procurement. In time, the choice was made that if we separate wholesalers from the retail trade, i.e. exempting the chains from the wholesale market, then pharmacies will have the opportunity to choose between different wholesalers at retail level, which will also create competition. As the Supreme Court said in its decision of 2013 just as paragraph 110 of that decision states: no new wholesaler can grow up when entering the market, because in order to be a successful wholesaler, you also need a wholesale buyer. But if you do not have a wholesale buyer, i.e. the pharmacies are predominantly owned by other wholesalers, you will not be able to succeed. The debate on the reform of the pharmacy is very often focused on why we are dealing with the retail market, the retail level, the pharmacy level, in a situation where the problem is in the wholesale market. At first glance, it really does seem a little weird why it's like this. Yesterday, the claim was repeated here that, you see, people are mostly satisfied with the pharmacy service, 90+ per cent of people think that the pharmacy service is okay. And the pharmacy service itself is fine, except for one small detail that the price is high. And that the price is high, patients know as well as we do here. Our special feature is that the level of retail competition in Estonia is very strong. There's a lot of pharmacies, and they're all fighting for us, for us as patients: come here, I'm offering you this, here's an even bigger discount! But this competition, which exists in the retail market, will in no way change the situation on the wholesale market, the competition there. I'll bring you a parallel from some other field, or rather not from another field, just a slightly different parallel. In order to address the problem at wholesale level in order to stimulate wholesale competition, another problem needs to be addressed. Measures must be taken not at wholesale level, but actually at retail level. That's the whole point of it. There is such a phenomenon as phantom pain: some people feel pain after having an unfortunately amputated limb, in the place where the limb used to be. And from a purely emotional feeling, it would be relatively logical to start treating this limb, but the real problem is elsewhere. It is wise, however, to look for the reason why this psychiatric problem results in phantom pain. That is why the provisions for prohibiting vertical integration into the Pharmacy Reform Act have been introduced at the time: in order to allow the separation of pharmacies from wholesalers to create competition between them, which would also bring the price down in the longer term. Now I will go more specifically to this bill. This bill was delivered on December 19th, 2019, which was the day after the pharmacy chains and their owners gave the Estonian people a great surprise and closed down the pharmacies to express resentment for the parliamentary disobedience. These proposals are not, in fact, original, as you can read in this explanatory memorandum, but are based on a draft draft by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which has not moved forward from the level of the Government of the Republic, but has been under discussion in the field for a long time. For the longest time, the right of hospital pharmacies to buy medicines from wholesalers other than those registered in Estonia has been under discussion. According to the current procedure, both hospital and retail pharmacies in Estonia can only buy medicines from a wholesaler registered in Estonia. There are reasons why this is so. Now both the Competition Authority and the North Estonian Regional Hospital have proposed that hospital pharmacies may have the right to buy medicines from abroad, not only from a wholesaler registered in Estonia. There are two reasons for this. The first reason concerns, let's say, the immediate medical needs. In particular, hospital pharmacies need certain more specific medicines, which are needed relatively quickly in small quantities, and which may have been the subject of certain difficulties in delivery, since wholesalers have either not been interested or are able to obtain them quickly enough for hospitals. In such cases, the hospital pharmacy would be able to obtain the medicine itself. The second argument, to which the Competition Authority also points out, is that about 100 million euros of the entire 500-million-dollar pharmaceutical market in Estonia has paid for medicines purchased by hospital pharmacies. It's a quarter to a fifth of the market. And if this market share, or hospital pharmacies, would have the right to buy from wholesalers other than those registered in Estonia, this could motivate wholesalers registered in Estonia to offer better prices. This is the first part and, indeed, this proposal, as I said, comes from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The other half, though modified, also comes from the Ministry of Social Affairs. It's the initiators' response to this mass closure action. In particular, how can it be avoided that society is in a situation where a pharmacy or a pharmaceutical wholesaler or any other person in this field suddenly gets mad at the state again, that the state does not allow it to make enough profits, or that other regulation is inappropriate for it and that it will deprive us of medicines for a long time? To this end, the Ministry of Social Affairs has prepared a solution that would allow the hospital pharmacy, in certain exceptional cases, to issue medicines also through retail sales. In other words, if the wholesalers themselves or the pharmacies associated with them do not provide the service, the state would be able to provide this service through hospital pharmacies. We have slightly expanded this proposal, or rather offered a slight extension of this proposal to consider, which would allow us to think about how patients would also benefit from more favourable prices enjoyed by hospital pharmacies in the case of medicines. If hospital pharmacies were to have the opportunity to use retail a little more widely, however, in a limited way, but a little more widely, then perhaps the people of Estonia would be able to gain a price gain in the whole system. On the one hand, our proposal to extend the rights of hospital pharmacies in relation to the purchase of medicinal products to ensure better supply is broadly summed up in this draft. That's point one. Secondly, we want to reduce the strength of Estonian wholesalers on the market, which is highly concentrated and whose competitive situation is known to be poor, as the Competition Authority has also said, and, on the other hand, to create a lever for the country so that we do not get into a situation like that on 18 December. Some number of natural or legal persons decided that, you know, we do not like what Parliament decided, and that is why we are going to deal with political blackmail at the cost of public health. As we heard yesterday, a lot of people said he understood this type of action. However, in order to be able to prevent or at least mitigate the impact of this type of extortion action at an operational level in the future, we see in the draft certain softening mechanisms. That's the end of the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U334	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. First please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U335	Good manager! Good waitress! First of all, I thank you for the meaningful introduction and the introduction to the bill, but frankly, I'm sad that you, former minister, are trying to lie a little bit in the booth. It's kind of sad. The Government of the Republic regulation sets limits on the mark-up for medicinal products. The price of the medicinal product is determined by the pharmaceutical manufacturer plus a wholesale mark-up plus a mark-up to the pharmacy plus VAT 9%. No one can set an arbitrary price on their own. And when we talk about hospitals, hospitals' pharmacies buy medicines through public procurement, not in any other way, and in public procurement, there is a probability that there will be offers below 2% to 5%. These are all procurements for the last five years. If anyone wants to buy medicine from outside, they have to meet the requirements of the Agency. The hospital can buy today, but when you discussed this bill, did you really realize that the Agency of Medicines was still between us? There is no way that the hospital can directly bring in a medicine in a package that does not contain instructions in Estonian, and so on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U336	A honourable member of the Riigikogu, and to remind others that the allowed length of the question is one minute. But now I ask for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U337	Thank you! Good questioner, I'm glad to see you're informed, but unfortunately only one-sided. And when it comes to accusing lies, you should be more careful because you can become ridiculous yourself. Indeed, the mark-up on medicinal products has been determined by the Government of the Republic's decree on the percentage, in cents, etc. The final price is, if simply summarised, so that there is a wholesale purchase price for a medicinal product that buys in at a certain price and puts its authorised mark-up at the end of a percentage and transfers the product to retail sales, the retailer puts its authorised percentage and adds additional VAT. This will result in a maximum authorised price for the medicinal product. Indeed, it is in theory. But in practice, what's the problem? In Estonia, there is no "any" word at all, "sufficient" is the correct regulatory framework for checking... Listen, Honourable Asker, the answer is still there! We do not have an adequate regulatory framework to control the most important component, the purchase price. If the buy-in price is a thing that the state doesn't control, if you don't check the first number of the equation to add all its percentages, then it's pretty much whatever the other percentages are. It's simple and logical. I have an annual report from the Ministry of Social Affairs ahead of me. I will read to you from this summary of the information that is available on the Internet, and it is worth deepening one quote: 'Input price' or 'package' is not defined in the Medicines Act or its sub-items, to which the company may add a mark-up and for which data must be transmitted to the Ministry of Social Affairs. Moreover, no authority is authorised to monitor the accuracy of wholesale purchase data. Therefore, there is no certainty about the quality of the data underlying the analysis. ' It's a general picture. Now a concrete example, Honourable Asker. We'll take a 40 mg, 0.4 ml, N10 syringe of Clexane. Magnum Medical buys it at 30 euros and 83 cents, Tamro buys 30 euros and 83 cents, or the same price. The pharmacy sells this medicine for 27 euros and 90 cents. It's like cheaper than the buy-in price. That's a weird story, how come there's charity? If you start looking deeper, it turns out that in fact those declared buy-in prices, to which these percentages are added and which are also reported to the country, are calculated very accurately and correctly, there is no fraud. Larger wholesalers are obliged to report to the health insurance fund the purchase prices and wholesale prices. If you get into it a little bit, it turns out they have very little to do with reality. You think about how this is possible, and then it turns out that they declare so-called counter prices. Something like the hotel: when you open the hotel website, there is a counter price, but when you move to a specific day, it turns out you can get twice as cheap. It appears that there is a similar situation in the pharmaceutical sector. One of the distinguished wholesaler representatives, Tamro's representative, I can't find his quote and I hope that I will not quote him very arbitrarily, said that it is a very sophisticated technique. Since we first declare one price, we sell it, and then we offset it later, calculate the discounts, then the money goes back to the wholesaler. It's like they're buying at one price, actually buying at a cheaper price, but they're clearing up later. This offset is based on marketing contracts using all kinds of different instruments. So to talk about the fact that we have price control is basically wrong. We only have price controls in one section, which is indeed the final sale price for prescription medicines, because the Health Insurance Fund is negotiating it with the manufacturer. What happens at a time when the Health Insurance Fund negotiates with the manufacturer on the line between the manufacturer and the wholesaler, how much a deal is agreed between the manufacturer and the wholesaler, we do not know. This picture we have is relatively, say, opaque. In short, in addition to the fact that we do not have price control, we actually have a much more fundamental problem: we have an enormous asymmetry of information. In fact, neither the public nor a large part of regulators have any substantive factual knowledge of the prices at which medicinal products are actually purchased. At what price they are sold, we see that, but at what price they are bought, we do not know that, and we do not know that in other countries, because in fact, all this business is going to be very dark all over the world. So don't blame other people for lying. If you have a deeper interest in the matter, I have been working very thoroughly in this area for a long time and I am ready to give you some materials for proper inspection. This is a very complex subject, but it is not too much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U338	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U339	Thank you for this very interesting overview. This bill itself seems quite reasonable. But we are now in a situation where the reform of a pharmacy approved and regularized five years ago will fully enter into force on 1 April. There's very little time left. Have you not thought that this was perhaps a slightly wrong time in terms of the legal certainty of the country and the functioning of the pharmacy sector to submit this draft? Perhaps we could allow the reform to enter into force, see exactly what its consequences are, and then come back to their thoughts? Don't you think it's a little confusing right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U340	Thank you for the question. Since these specific provisions concerning hospital pharmacies are not directly related to the organisation of more general retail pharmacies, I do not think that this will cause much confusion in this context. Perhaps so much confusion is caused by the fact that there are several drafts at the same time, which certainly requires a deeper deepening of Parliament. However, it must be acknowledged that, in general, such fundamental issues of the organisation of the market in medicinal products rarely come to an in-depth discussion of the substance in this Chamber. And I think that the fact that we're finally going to open this black box as much as we can, and we're going to look in there in white, isn't a bad thing in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U341	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U342	I don't like it when the Socats start talking about competition. I just don't believe them. But all right. I have this particular question: will these so-called hospital pharmacies also engage in retailing and, if so, are they somehow extracurricular or are they inside a hospital, for example, in a basement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U343	Thank you very much. The second point of our draft says: the hospital pharmacy generally does not have the right to retail medicines. So the general rule that hospital pharmacies don't do retail is we wouldn't want to change. We say that hospitals for the development of the hospital network, i.e. the ubiquitous so-called state hospitals, the public hospitals in the county centres in Tallinn, have several, mostly one in the county centres, could also, in some cases, carry out the retail sale of medicines in their pharmacies. We have proposed in our draft the wording that more precise conditions for the retail sale of hospital pharmacies will be laid down by a regulation of the Government of the Republic. Hospitals could have the right and the possibility to carry out the retail supply of medicines in certain situations where they consider it necessary for the protection of patients. We have not yet thought about it and have not offered any very definite option as to whether it should take place every day or in exceptional circumstances. We are definitely open for discussion. And I don't have any reason to believe that hospital executives want to serve their patients somewhere around the corner or in the basement, as you said. I think they still want the best for their patients.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U344	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U345	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! To be honest, I was a little confused. Do you really think it's possible to bring all this sort of thing into hospitals overnight and make this investment, as you said just a moment ago? It seems a little utopian. Nobody keeps things like this in store just in case, or build a particular pharmacy, I mean a retail pharmacy, to a hospital, on the first floor, on the second floor, or anywhere. But I have this question: where do you think the investments will come from, what would have to be done in this case? Who will cover these expenses? The truth is that to some extent these hospitals are subject to public authority, often they are foundations. Who, then, would be the one who would oblige these investments to create this real retail pharmacy? Maybe you need it for a week or I don't know how long you should do it. What do you think of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U346	Firstly, although there are clearly certain differences in the range of hospital pharmacies and retail pharmacies, given their specificity, there are more injectable medicines in hospitals than in retail pharmacies, etc., there are still thousands of articles of nomenclature that are sold both here and there. For example, from 2011 the tables underlying the analysis of the National Audit Office, which are available on eight A3 pages, are available. These are medicines that exist both here and there, both in hospitals and in retail pharmacies for sale. Or rather hospital pharmacies, not for sale, but for available, let's say so. But it's definitely a question of how big stocks are being held, etc. I agree with that. Now, who's supposed to make an obligation? We have foreseen this, like the Ministry of Social Affairs, which considers it an additional possibility for hospitals not to be an obligation for the hospital to start selling medicines. That would be a possibility. Yes, there is a question that obliges, in exceptional circumstances, where the issue of medicinal products from a hospital pharmacy would be important for the protection of public health, for example, when other pharmacies around us have decided to shut themselves down, to sell medicines to the hospital for retail sale. I guess that's what the founder's rights provider does, depending on who he's in one hospital or another. But like I said, it's not our idea that it's not the obligation that, I don't know, every hospital or hospital is going to have to run a pharmacy next year. This is a further regulatory option in the future. [[They're asking for something in the hall.]] Hospital pharmacies basically have a warehouse, maybe it needs to be expanded a little. As far as the hospital pharmacy is concerned about the retail delivery of goods in the hall, I believe that these investments of themselves are of considerable magnitude, so that the hospital can do them. But in this connection, a more serious question arises, which is why we have left it more strictly unregulated: it is what requirements a hospital pharmacy must meet when it comes to retailing. The retail pharmacy, the usual general pharmacy, has certain requirements that must be met. This is certainly something that should be discussed in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U347	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U348	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I see that this is a very good draft that you have now brought to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. But I have one question, and I expect an answer, maybe I can support you. In particular, it is clear from the explanatory memorandum that the authorisation to provide hospital pharmacy services would also give the right to import medicines. Under both the Pharmaceutical Act and the legislation issued under it, it is stipulated that medicinal products may only be transferred to the persons indicated on the consignment note when they are transported to third parties; they must not be handed over to third parties. Neither can medicines be sent by post. Precautions are particularly stringent for narcotic drugs. How do you think you're gonna solve the drug transport on this bill so that I can understand it too?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U349	As I said, this is a proposal prepared in cooperation with the Agency and the Ministry of Social Affairs. As I point out correctly in the explanatory memorandum, these are not my original justifications; their authors are specialists of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Agency, who are also responsible for these matters. Point 3 explicitly states that it is the responsibility of the competent person designated by the holder of the hospital pharmacy authorisation to determine whether the conditions of storage have been complied with when the medicinal product is transported and to ensure that the medicinal products being imported comply with the requirements laid down in that law and on the basis thereof. I am not sure whether the legislator needs to regulate precisely which means of transport the medicines are transported, whether the hospital buys the vehicle for itself or rents it from somewhere. I cannot say this, but I am convinced that if the Agency, together with the Ministry of Social Affairs, has made such a proposal, I think the Agency will also check that all these requirements have been met in the pharmaceutical sector, they have also considered this aspect. If you have a greater interest in this subject, we can certainly ask the Agency for an explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U350	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U351	Thank you. Dear waitress, when you answered Aivar Koka's question, you repeated several times that the problem is that there is no price control. This means that the problem is not about wholesalers or anything else, but about price control. But at the same time, this legislative amendment that you're offering us right now doesn't even half a word about price control. Wouldn't it be better to deal with these real problems rather than create new ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U352	Thank you! However, this is a real problem if the hospital pharmacy does not receive the necessary medicines for its work, because no wholesaler is prepared to deliver it on time. As far as price control is concerned, indeed, I have asked the Prime Minister and the Minister of Social Affairs in this Chamber and I have also asked about this in the form of a written question on the home page, it is also possible to find it from Mr Raivo Aeg, the Minister of Competition. I have asked about this, and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Prime Minister have also, if I remember correctly, expressed their support for this proposal. This proposal has been made before. I am thinking of the proposal to give the Competition Authority the functioning of the market price regulator for medicinal products, so that the agency can really ensure that the prices that are being charged to the State are correct. The Minister of Justice has replied to me that this proposal is within the competence of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but of course the Ministry of Justice is prepared to support the Ministry of Social Affairs in developing the necessary and appropriate procedural legislation within the limits of its ability and competence. But legislation relating to a market regulator or such a price regulator, I honestly admit, is not my wider area of competence. I think it requires a little more thorough preparation at the level of the Government of the Republic, including in cooperation with the Competition Authority, which should start implementing this regulation. This is not a proposal that I have made purely because I have no competence to write such legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U353	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U354	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good performer! My question is about the last one. Do the sexes have a more specific plan or a vision of how to lower the prices of medicines?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U355	Thank you very much for this question. The first concrete plan was to achieve that the draft that you tabled yesterday would be rejected, because as a result, the prices of medicines would have started to rise. And this, by the way, is no joke. When I first became Minister of Social Affairs, it was in 2015, then representatives of pharmaceutical companies came to me, I can't remember whether they were wholesale or retailers or both together, but it's not one of the bodies with different heads, and they said that the mark-up percentage hasn't been raised since 2005, it's all so creepy, it's such a loss-making business, we're doing it out of pure altruism, and we don't know why. And they applied for an increase in the mark-up percentages. I didn't think that was possible. Now, a few years later, when the reform of the pharmacy started to be reversed, I asked, and I know exactly who I asked, because it was later from the head of the association of pharmacies, Mr Danilov, who visited us in the Group of the Social Democratic Party, that you have always made proposals to increase the price of medicines and that you still want to do so. He said that they are not making this proposal now; at the moment, no such proposal is planned. But, of course, if it had been possible to maintain its market position, I suppose these proposals would have come. Now, in the long term, in order for the prices of medicines to actually fall, it is necessary to create competition between wholesalers. That's why I'm talking about hospital procurement, because there's just competition. If we could create the same competition by selling to retailers, then the market logic that the honourable waitress spoke about in another group yesterday would be working, but had a little misunderstood it. Of course, it doesn't all happen on the day. Of course, there is also a need for action by the state, also in the part that we have been talking about here, that we must have an understanding of what is being bought at prices. A price-market regulation mechanism must emerge. And I'm sure everyone in this Chamber agrees on this: the prices of medicines could be lower. I believe that, now that it is clear that the reform of the pharmacy will enter into force, we should not miss the opportunity and we should work together to really create price and market regulation, as Mr Lotman proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U356	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U357	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! It's so nice that the former Minister of Social Affairs here is giving very competent answers. Unfortunately, I have to say that, in general, as a former Minister for Social Affairs, you certainly know that service providers have no right to retail in any developed country. They just have so many other tasks, and in today's situation, where our healthcare coverage doesn't even cover the cost of day care in the hospital, it would be very strange if they were to start carrying out other tasks. How would this so-called retail option for healthcare providers still bring down the prices of medicines in general retail, and how would it lead to the abolition of wholesale vertical traffic?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U358	Yes, vertical purchasing, or the general core of the pharmacy reform, is not concerned with this draft. The next item on the agenda is that it does not concern you. How does this affect competition? As I said, hospital medicines account for 20 to 25% of the current sales volume of wholesalers. They earn less on hospital medication than on retail, considering that they sell cheaper to hospitals. Since this is public procurement, we know a little more about these prices. The idea is that, in fact, this part of the purchasing community, which makes up a relatively large part of the pharmaceutical market, would also be able to buy from elsewhere. This does not mean that they will no longer buy from Estonian wholesalers in the future, but that others will also be able to come to these purchases and this would make local wholesalers work hard. As a result, prices could still fall in hospital procurement and so savings would be made on health insurance money, which you said was clearly insufficient, after all. As regards the issue of the retail sale of hospital pharmacies, I believe that the provider of healthcare and the dispenser of medicines should not be one person. The question of whether or not there is time is not primary. Valga Hospital, if I remember correctly, owns the pharmacy, and it's quite profitable. It is not a bad thing to do at all, with the support of which other health services can be developed. The more serious question is how to avoid the conflict of interest that could inevitably arise in such a situation. That is why we have foreseen that this would only take place in the hospitals mentioned in the development plan for the hospital network, which are operating in the eyes of the public authorities and which are also strategically managed by the state, having imposed on them the requirements and also the health insurance fund's purchase rules. In their case, we believe that it is possible to create a system to minimise conflicts of interest. Where exactly is this balance? I repeat, we are not saying in this bill that all hospitals should start selling all medicines. The organisational side of the system requires more thorough reflection, as we propose in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U359	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U360	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At first, I commended the fact that there was such a very good bill. But hearing the answer to my question concerning transport, this bill doesn't seem so sympathetic to me anymore. You were unable to answer correctly the question of transport problems. I am of the opinion that when you prepare this draft, you simply have not examined other legislation to reduce or undo any problems arising in the transport of medicines. I therefore have a question as to why you have not done so. Your answer, for example, where you mentioned drugs containing drugs, was totally strange.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U361	Thank you very much. If you wish to vote against this bill, you do not need to create such a complex structure. I don't mind you. I've been in politics for nine years. However, if the question is that you would really like to know more or to discuss more precisely how the issue of transport could be regulated specifically in relation to the purchase of hospital medicines from abroad, I, as the initiator, express my full willingness to discuss this issue in cooperation with you between the first and second readings and to find a mutually satisfactory solution. I hope that, thanks to this, you will be ready to fully support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U362	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U363	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. waitress, I don't like monopolies and I like competition. And I know something about competition. I know why big chains die out small companies that I like much better. Why are they dying out? But because it's cheaper. That's the reason. You said the wholesalers wouldn't buy at the counter price, but if they start buying these little companies, they won't be sold below the wholesale price. That's the logic there. If you buy 100 Snickers, the price of one Snickers isn't the same as the price of one Snickers. That is the problem, and I am afraid that the reform will result in prices for medicines rising rather than falling. That's my problem. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U364	Yeah, you're theoretically right. This is what the great chains have pointed out: they have a scale effect, a market economy's fundamental truth, a scale effect. But in a funny way, the scale effect, using the scale of the saving pipe, is directed towards the owner's pocket, not towards the consumer. I'll give you a reason. All chains have about the same prices for medicines in pharmacies. If you don't believe me, you can watch the Nightshade treatments. There has been a very thorough analysis of the big data. They call it the popular price, which accounts for 98% of the prices of pharmacies. At the same time, in a funny way, there are individual pharmacies in Estonia, which really are completely independent pharmacists, whose owners do not have franchise, and for which we may not know all the conditions publicly, and we say yes, let them be. Somehow, these few pharmacist pharmacies offer medicines cheaper. Why is that? How about a large scale Apotheka chain or a chain of Heart Pharmacy or a Benu chain or a Euroa Pharmacy chain selling medicines more expensive than the Kalamaja pharmacy? Doesn't make any sense, does it?! It makes sense that a small pharmacy goes to a wholesaler and receives more expensive goods from a wholesaler. In fact, it receives goods at substantially the same price from all wholesalers and sells at a lower price. But the owners of wholesale chain pharmacies do not make money in the retail market, but earn money at the point where the producer meets the wholesaler. And what's going on there, we only know in pieces and certainly not enough to be sure to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U365	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U366	Thank you very much. Good waitress! I've been asking the head of a county hospital for an opinion on this bill. To be honest, he did not see the possibility of opening a hospital pharmacy either because of the current spatial design, from the point of view of making this investment or from the point of view of sorting. He said that these goods are still completely different both in terms of packaging and whether they are solid or liquid. There's a thousand details. He said it was absolutely impossible to implement it. But my question is this. As you said, hospital pharmacies can buy some things very cheaply and hopefully they will also sell at a 60% or 100% discount in retail sales. Well, it's almost like communism or at least socialism. What message do you give to pharmacists who run their pharmacy next door when the hospital pharmacy sells at a 100% discount?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U367	Yeah. To the hospital manager you're talking about, I also have some idea who it is, you can tell me he doesn't have to open a pharmacy. This is not an obligation according to the bill, it is an opportunity. And maybe at some point he finds it practical, necessary or reasonable to consider this possibility. As far as competition in the retail market is concerned, it certainly, as I said in reply to Mr Everaus's question, requires a more thorough technical discussion on the conditions for hospital pharmacists to meet when retailing, so as not to create unfair competition in the sense that they are going to offer goods in the premises paid for by taxpayers' money and, say, pay the principal pharmacist's salary with hospital money even if they sell medicines at a cheaper price there. In general, of course, this has a very limited impact on the entire retail market for medicines. We are talking about five to ten pharmacies in a situation where there are hundreds of pharmacies in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U368	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U369	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! One small clarification, please: if hospital pharmacies can start buying directly, do you think this could happen without public procurement? How do you know in current public procurement that other wholesalers in the European Union are not allowed to bid? After all, everything depends, first of all, on the amount of public procurement, whether it is international or not, but every procurement can be carried out and offered by a company in the European Union. I'm not reading out of the law on public procurement that it can't be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U370	I can't tell by heart, but I'll find it, the honorable questioner. According to today's procedure, only a wholesaler registered in Estonia can buy medicinal products to be dispensed to the final consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U371	Thank you. Looks like there's no more questions. Next, I would like to ask the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee, Tõnis Möldri, for a co-report from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U372	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed in three sessions the draft law amending the Drug Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party ambassadors. In addition, representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Agency were invited to attend the first sitting, where the initiators of the draft were also present, who gave an overview of the draft. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs gave an overview of the Government of the Republic's opinion on the draft law amending the Law on Medicinal Products, which has been submitted by the representatives of the Social Democratic Party. The position of the Government of the Republic is that they do not support the draft as it stands. According to the Government, hospital pharmacies could obtain the right to import medicines to provide hospital services, but only in exceptional circumstances. As regards the granting of retailing rights to hospital pharmacies, the Government considers that this may be justified in certain cases, but only in exceptional circumstances. The Commission discussed a number of issues more widely, many of which have also spoken in this Chamber today. For example, they wanted to know how many hospitals in the hospital network development plan that already have some pharmacies inside as tenants and how many hospitals that currently do not have pharmacy rooms. The initiator of the draft act explained that the point is not that the retail option is extended to all hospitals and that it becomes common practice. If some hospitals could have retail rights in the future, of course this would not happen in the near future, but if the existing contracts, in particular the lease contracts in these hospitals, had ended. It was asked whether the retail sale of the hospital pharmacy should only take place in or outside the hospital building. The initiator of the draft act pointed out that, according to their understanding, this sale should take place in a hospital. It was examined whether there was a risk of conflict of interest in the case of hospital pharmacies, as regards the keeping of a pharmacy and the purpose of obtaining benefits from the sale of medicines: one-handed hospital prescribes medicines and sells them with the other hand. The initiator of the bill admitted that there may be a certain risk, but that mitigation must be addressed. It was examined what the exceptional arrangement, or exceptionally the granting of the retail right, would mean. And in the event that the hospital exceptionally starts selling medicinal products, do the requirements for the pharmacy service apply to it as they do today in normal retail pharmacies or, exceptionally, when they are sold, do they not have to comply with these requirements? The Agency gave its explanation in response, saying that if we are talking only about an exceptional situation or certain cases, it is certainly not necessary to comply with the requirements imposed on retail pharmacies in this situation. In exceptional circumstances, however, the rules of the game are quite different. The question was asked who will solve these exceptions and the emergency situation on this issue. As the initiator of the bill said, it could be regulated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, it was asked that if the hospital were to acquire the right to retail, how would we still mitigate the resulting conflict of interest? Indeed, if a doctor prescribes drugs with one hand and there is a sale of medicines at the same hospital, then suddenly there is a more serious conflict of interest. The initiator of the draft act said that the general principle is that no retailing is carried out in hospitals, which would still be an exceptional situation. Secondly, only hospital network development plans in hospitals should be sold, not in every health institution. And it is likely that there should be a clear set of principles to be followed by people working in hospitals in order to avoid conflicts of interest. The Commission also considered it necessary to note one opinion that it is certainly very difficult for hospitals to hold strategic stocks for emergency situations in order to deal with the amount of medicinal products needed in emergency situations. The hospital pharmacy is basically a hospital medicine warehouse, and there is a common trend around the world that this type of retail pharmacy is not kept in hospitals. One reason, though, is that medicines also have a certain period of delivery, so simply keeping them there does not make sense. Again, it came back to comparing the range of medicines in hospital pharmacies and the range of medicines in retail pharmacies. I'm sure there's some overlap, but mostly it's not the same. There was also a question about the prices of medicines: has it been calculated how much is added to the final price for medicines purchased at a lower price in the hospital-owned pharmacy when retailing rights arise? The costs that we have not dealt with in public procurement today are, above all, wages, rent and perhaps certain construction costs. The author's response was that it could not be calculated at the moment, but that price could also be significantly more favourable than in the retail pharmacy, despite the mark-up provided for by the law and possibly covering these costs. The last question was about franchise in retail pharmacies: could hospital pharmacies start concluding franchise contracts in the future when they set up a retail pharmacy. The initiator's response was that it was not defined in a particular draft, but could be discussed in the course of further proceedings. The Commission also convened to discuss this draft at its second meeting on 17 February, and then decided by consensus to appoint Tõnis Mölder, the chairman of the committee, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 26 February and that the deadline for amendments be set at 12 noon on 4 March. At the third meeting on this subject, the Commission decided by vote that we would reject the draft proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U373	Thank you. There are questions. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U374	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Since I did not participate in the first sitting of the Commission, which you described very thoroughly, Mr Ossinovski took part in it, I have just the question of the first sitting. In the Committee on Social Affairs, did anyone wonder how much the elderly in Estonia, who are among the poorest in the European Union, spend their pensions on medicines or even medical services? When drafting this bill, did it also mean that people with high medical needs could be subject to lower prices? We are very well aware that if it had not been decided during the previous government to reimburse EUR 100 per year and, in the case of invoices for medicines exceeding EUR 300, the bulk of the total was 300 and 500 in the past, then medicines would be even more expensive for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U375	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that the decision of the previous government to which you referred was a good one. But when we come back to the Commission's debate, we did not really discuss in detail how this draft will affect one or the other age group from the point of view of the price of medicines. However, the Commission was discussing how regularisation of the draft would affect the prices of medicines. According to the initiators, this would have a positive impact, but there were also those in the Commission who thought that the calculation had not been thoroughly analysed and rather the opposition remained.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U376	Thank you. No further questions. So, since the lead committee has... Sorry, we still have negotiations. I would like to ask for the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U377	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On the subject of the pharmacy, as well as on pensions, we have discussed a great deal in this Chamber. Just so it is clear to everyone: this draft, which we are talking about, looks further away from 1 April. This draft does not reverse the reform of the pharmacy, does not reform the pharmacy, but takes up an issue that has been discussed for a long time and which the Agency and the Competition Authority support and, in fact, the North Estonian Regional Hospital. There are certain situations where it would be reasonable or necessary for a hospital to buy medicines from wholesalers other than Estonia in the interests of patients' health. For example, these much-spoken supply difficulties. Indeed, the Estonian market is small and it may not be economically feasible for a wholesaler to bring all medicines to the country, but patients need them. In this case, exceptionally, the hospital would be the major hospitals in which we are dealing with a very wide range of specializations, to buy from a foreign wholesale company some of the medicines that patients need and which normally do not reach our country. And there may also be special circumstances, such as a long-term cut in electricity, which concerns the closure of a strike or of pharmacies for some other reason. Then at least the patients have the assurance that, under exceptional circumstances, certain points in Estonia will be available for medical treatment. I understand that since this is a fundamental change, all these questions have arisen. What about competition? How much investment would that be, and would the sale of medicines now go to hospitals? It may raise questions. Just so much information that there are 20 hospitals in Estonia in the development plan for the hospital network. We are talking about 20 places in Estonia. Many of them are in rural areas, they are county hospitals, such as Võru and elsewhere. If we have a long-term blackout, there's at least one place in the county where there's a backup generator, refrigerators are running, it's possible to preserve the medicine. And patients who really need some medicine today or tomorrow because of their health problems will get the medicine. So this is a sensible bill. We do not want to reverse the reform of the pharmacy either further or backwards. The aim is that in the event of supply difficulties or in any other exceptional circumstances, the hospital would also have the right to purchase medicines from a foreign wholesaler and to sell medicinal products in its own building. This would not cause a major distortion of the market. This would not be an important decision in terms of the total turnover of the pharmacy market, but it would provide the necessary instrument that we need in the interests of patients' health. I see no reason why this type of reasonable change could be resisted in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U378	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Urmas Espenberg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U379	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You're too late, you bastards! Why do we need these draft laws now that the law comes into force on 1 April, which turns everything upside down? We don't know what's gonna happen. So I agree with Loone, so let's wait and see what we can do next. They say once the house is demolished, you don't have to think about designing the couch. What else can I say? The government didn't support your bill, the Agency didn't support it, the Social Affairs Committee didn't support it. Neither does the ECRE Group, nor does I.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U380	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U381	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. The idea of this draft itself is neither wrong nor bad, but it must, as some colleagues have said here, look at the law as a whole. If anyone thinks that I may not know anything about this area, then I can say that I have been in contact with this area practically every night in the last six years, because my daughter has gone through all the stages in this area until public procurement to hospitals. It's not quite as easy as you think. If a medicine is needed tomorrow and Estonian wholesalers were unable to obtain it, I can safely tell you that all Estonian wholesalers have tried to get it from all over Europe. If there is a problem with the introduction of a medicinal product, this problem is usually a problem throughout Europe, not just in a small Estonian country where the amount of medicinal products needed is small and small compared to the European Union as a whole. The idea that we are now giving hospitals the opportunity to bring medicines directly from somewhere, I understand that you have also negotiated it with the Agency, that all the requirements for these medicines must still apply. There's no way that anyone under the cover will bring some medicine to Estonia and say it's okay. It must be agreed with the Agency, the packaging required must be included in the explanatory notes. Only then will it be possible. All these procurements must be carried out in public procurement procedures, I understand that this is what you expressed, and public procurement, even under the simplest procedure, takes its time. And even if this medicine is not available in Latvia or Lithuania, it is hardly available anywhere in Germany or France. Most medicines, as you know, come from Asian countries where they are packed and shipped. Supply problems are and are universal. I'm saying the idea isn't wrong, but to do it like this... I am pleased that you have come to the point that this is primarily a question of the cost of importing, not of how the price is going to be in the pharmacy. I dare say here that it was very bad that a newspaper wrote that one drug was cheap in a pharmacist's pharmacy, but it was forgotten that the drug was much cheaper in one big chain that week. Only one pharmacist's pharmacy was given as an example, while the other 100 pharmacists forgot to find out what the price was. Can't always take the press as a real truth, as we know, paper suffers from everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U382	Thank you. I don't think there's any more call request. I'm closing the negotiations. Since the lead committee has proposed to reject the 127 draft at first reading, we must vote on it. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 63 members of the Riigikogu in favour of rejection, 11 against and no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U383	Now we are going to the final item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act 141 amending the Law on Medicines initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Riina Sikkut and Helmen Küti. Evgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu, will be the rapporteur for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U384	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pleasure to introduce you to the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law 141. Since the big picture was discussed in the course of the previous bill, I'm about to start the main course. Following the decision of the Riigikogu yesterday, it is clear that the Pharmacy Reform will be completed on 1 April. It is therefore very appropriate to address seriously the draft law on the amendment of the medicine law initiated by me and two of my colleagues. Indeed, the five-year transition period for the reform of the pharmacy was quite long and, of course, it was known that the main difficulty of implementing it would fall to the first months of 2020. The Chancellor of Justice drew attention to this in his time. It was referred to that you will see that in 2018 so few pharmacies have transferred to the ownership of pharmacists. It was like a testimony that the reform was not being implemented. The Chancellor of Justice also rightly said that companies have the right, first of all, to make full use of the whole transitional period and, second, it is quite reasonable to assume that, in the case of profitable business, they will take advantage of the entire transitional period granted by the legislator in order to work as long as it is possible to do so. As a result, it was also expected that, in the end of 2019 and in the first months of 2020, the real process of reform would begin, that pharmacies would start changing owners, that new pharmacists would be set up, etc. But then there was a political risk: political parties belonging to the government began to talk about the reform being cancelled from last autumn. And this subject was dealt with for months. Some working groups and other working groups were working together, and this draft was finally passed on in November or December. It was voted off in December. You might have thought that now maybe the reform would come into effect. But it was said that no-no, we still want to think, and this uncertainty, of course, has had a crippling effect on the implementation of the pharmaceutical reform. No reasonable person, of course, assumes legal and financial obligations in a situation where it is not known whether the framework, which has been promised for five years, is actually in place or not. And as a result, we arrived at a situation where, on 30 January, on the day of the initiation of this draft, we had a total of 35 such settlement units, which at least theoretically run the risk that if there was no change in the next month, this place would be deprived of the pharmacy service. There are currently no pharmacies that meet the final conditions of 1 April. Among them are places such as Hiiumaa, where a pharmacy owns a pharmacist, but not the majority of the pharmacist. The law requires that at least 51% must belong to one pharmacist, but there is a pharmacy on top of a group of pharmacists. But there are places where the only pharmacy belongs to a chain. If the coalition hadn't caused this political confusion and crap, I believe the picture would be much more beautiful and clearer today and there would be no need for this draft. But since this has now come true, as responsible people, we have tabled a draft to prevent this risk from being ruled out. This would give the Agency the right in those places where today there is a risk that the pharmacy service might actually be interrupted at least temporarily on 1 April, specifically on a case-by-case basis. This is to alleviate the confusion that dear coalition colleagues have caused in the pharmaceutical market over the past six months. In this way, it could be ensured that the final implementation of the pharmacy reform is smoother. The specific first proposal comes from the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is again a bit modified and solves the so-called Hiiumaa problem, i.e. the situation where pharmacists hold a pharmacy, but none of them have at least 51% participation, or majority participation, as required by law. For example, three pharmacists each own 33% of the pharmacy. We offer, as proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the option that these requirements will be deemed to be met if pharmacists hold at least 80% of the shares and have a dominant influence. The other side would touch other settlements where there is no similar problem to that of Hiiumaa, but where the one and only pharmacy belongs to the chain. There were places like this when we handed over the bill, 25, today it should be 24. The draft would grant the Agency the right to extend the deadline for the transition to the new requirements until 1 January 2021 if necessary in the interests of public health. It is now possible for good colleagues in the large Chamber to support the fact that, due to the reform of the pharmacy, no settlement will be left without a pharmacy on 1 April, that the entry into force of the reform of the pharmacy will be smoother. The Agency, which operates under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, has supported this proposal in its assessment and has said that it is in their opinion applicable. They could do this, although there are some technical issues. But they could do it, and they generally think it's a good idea. If this draft hall is not supported today, the levers at the disposal of the legislator and the authorities will, unfortunately, remain limited in order to make up for the time that has been lost as a result of the sowing of political uncertainty. We hope that, in this case, in as many places as possible, pharmacist pharmacies will still be open by 1 April, but let us admit that there is very little time left. It was only yesterday that it became clear whether or not there will be a reform of the pharmacy, and I would advise you not to take such a risk, ladies and gentlemen. We will make this bill a law and ensure that no settlement will be left without a pharmacy in Estonia on April 1st! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U385	Thank you, good speaker. You have questions too. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U386	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Yesterday we heard in this Chamber that the EKRE ambassadors are extremely concerned about the consequences of the entry into force of the pharmaceutical reform. The purpose of your bill is to soften this transition. What is your assessment: is EKRE genuinely concerned about the reform of the pharmacy and supports your draft? I mean, that softens the supposed consequences. Or do they vote against, even though you actually come up to them several steps along the way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U387	Of course, anyone who is concerned about whether, even after 1 April, in all the places where the pharmacy currently exists, the pharmacy service is guaranteed should support this draft. And this certainly also concerns a party called EKRE. At the same time, we have rather heard views that provide a basis for predicting a different kind of behaviour. After all, we did not support a favourable bill for current wholesalers, and it failed yesterday. We did not support wholesalers being able to pass on to these good and patients in a bad market situation, and now they do not support our bill either. However, I think that today, on 26 February, just over a month before the reform comes into force, it might be possible to think about those people who may be left without a pharmacy service on 1 April. Let us hope, of course, that this will not happen one way or another. However, there is nothing wrong with giving the Ministry of Social Affairs the necessary lever so that they can do what is necessary to protect public health if we allow a transitional period in the individual places where the pharmacy is not very profitable, let us be clear. The aim is indeed to ensure the protection of public health. But what is the opinion of the EKRE representatives of the Social Democrats and this bill, we will soon hear. This is gonna be really interesting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U388	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U389	Thank you. I actually have the same question as the previous draft. We have dealt with this reform of the pharmacy for some absolutely amazing reason for the six months, one way and the other, and it is indeed the 11th hour. Would it not be reasonable for our country's credibility, legal certainty and also for Parliament to actually deal with matters of substance, not to bounce balls in a strange way, to leave this pharmacy reform a little bit alone, to let it enter into force and then to see if there is something that needs to be changed or if there is nothing to be changed? Maybe that dog's tail wouldn't cut in pieces like that? The decision has been made, the Estonian state has decided to do it, we can do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U390	Yes, thank you! The analogy with the previous draft is, in my opinion, not quite accurate. The previous draft opened a certain additional aspect, but this draft relates specifically to the implementation of the pharmacy reform. Indeed, we have heard from the Ministry of Social Affairs from time to time that there is no problem, we will manage, the reform will enter into force on 1 April. Although I have no reason to do so, I can still mistrust the position expressed by the Minister for Social Affairs, but on the other hand I see nothing wrong with the legislator giving the Ministry of Social Affairs an additional lever. In some places, for entirely unforeseen personal reasons, some pharmacists may not be able to establish a pharmacist's pharmacy by April 1. I see nothing wrong with giving the Agency a chance to make an exception on a case-by-case basis and to a limited extent. We say yes, the pharmacy reform is in effect, but in certain places we take away the real fear that the pharmacy service might be disrupted. And once again, I would like to point out that if all this intermediate crap had not been the honourable questioner, he says that the debate on the reform of the pharmacy has leaned this way and this way, but mostly it has been torn up to this point, even twice, fortunately it has not gone there, if it had not been there, then there would have been no need for this draft. Now the initiators have responded to the so-called current political situation, which has led to a high degree of market uncertainty, which has slowed down the implementation of the pharmacy reform for some time. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U391	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U392	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Honourable performer, you gave such a powerful Jehovah yesterday that you don't think that's enough? In Latvia, this has been the case for ten years. That dogtail talk from Oudekk was quite adequate, he took my words out of my mouth. But the question is completely different. Now it's probably going to be bigger to sell pharmacies. If, for example, 200 pharmacies were to be sold at once, what would be their price? And if they don't, will you just take it off or what happens next?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U393	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I regret to admit that in the case of your introductory reply, I was left unclear on the basis, said and directed. But speaking of your particular question, I'd like to sort out one thing. Let's not really talk about this expropriation thing, okay? It's understandable who's saying this and why they're saying it. But also at this Social Affairs Committee meeting, where I had the honour of being here, and you had the honour of being here, after all, the Lawyer of the EMA said that there are no such concepts in court material, that's bullshit. Nobody's gonna expropriate anything. The manner in which private legal and natural persons accurately formalise their relationships and transactions is their business. Knowing many people working in this area, I believe they can do it. That's where capable people work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U394	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U395	Thank you. This is certainly a good bill and this proposal, as you said, has also been made by the Minister. But, of course, it would have been even better if this point had been included in the draft drawn up five years ago. Probably just missed it back then. But what do you think if this bill were to remain in the process right now, aren't you afraid that there will be another suggestion to reverse the whole pharmaceutical reform? As you can see, there are people in this Chamber who do not understand the need for pharmaceutical reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U396	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U397	No, I'm not afraid of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U398	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I think you are quite two-faced when you talk about today's bill. Today you are talking about your concern for public health and nothing happening, but yesterday, when the Pharmacy Reform Act was under discussion, you did not have that concern. You also mentioned that you have been in politics for nine years. Now, as a young politician, I ask, is this the limit of nine years from which this two-faced thinking begins?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U399	No, I've noticed that some people have it on the first day he's come to this hall. And some people never do. As far as your claim is concerned, we certainly have a different understanding of how to protect the interests of Estonian patients. I have worked in this area for a long time, I know this area quite well, and I have to say that the draft that you presented here yesterday and which one of your party members was trying to defend was not in the interests of patients, but in the interests of the great pharmaceutical businessmen. This was intended to confirm the current market situation for patients, which according to the National Audit Office's assessment, I quote 'not optimal'. You could also say harshly: we pay tens and tens of millions more for medicines than we would like. I think that this is something that needs to be addressed, and the reform of the pharmacy is aimed at changing the current market situation. The fact that business interests are very high and they are reflected once in the draft group, once in the draft group and at the points of discussion, is a negotiated path. We all know it is. The people who write these drafts and carry them into groups are capable people, we all know them without doubt. I really believe, however, that we need to change the concentrated market organisation so far. We need to really boost competition in the wholesale market, but this requires a change in the retail organisation. And what is very important is that, of course, the state must also deal with the actual implementation of this regulation, so that the agreements that will be concluded as franchise agreements are correct, etc. At the same time, I see absolutely no contradiction here. On the contrary, I think it is very important that we work to ensure that no settlement is left without a pharmacy, that medicines are cheaper and that people are not left without a pharmacy service. I think they are both necessary at the same time, and I say that both are possible at the same time. These are possible if there is a beautiful synergy between yesterday's Riigikogu decision and support for this draft. If you really want to stand up for people's interests, honourable questioner, then you do not have any other option than to support this bill. Rhetorically, it's possible to talk about all kinds of nonsense, but basically, it's the only way to do it today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U400	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U401	Thank you, good speaker! Good waitress! One substantive question that directly pushes 200 pharmacists' letters. In fact, according to the new law that will enter into force, at least 51% must be owned by a single pharmacist. But what about the minority shareholders? They're worried, still with this profit distribution and other things, they're kind of gonna stay out of it. I mean minority shareholders, the rest 49%.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U402	There is a slightly different proposal in our draft concerning the reading of the requirement of a pharmacist's property. I also introduced this in my introductory speech. In general, our bill does not want to change the general principles of the Commercial Code.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U403	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U404	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I actually have a slightly broader question. Since this reform of the pharmacy has indeed gone, I cannot say, there and there, but certainly not in the right direction, my question comes from that. We actually know we're all disappearing. If this pharmacist, who owns 51% or more, leaves us permanently, then the pharmacy should actually close the next day. How are you going to solve this problem? What's it like? So is the hospital pharmacy you wanted to fill this hole? So how is this problem solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U405	Thank you! Our draft does not address this issue. Formally speaking, I could finish the answer with that. But, as far as I know, I'm not a lawyer, and such cases are regulated by a specialist in this field. It is known how continuity will be ensured should the owner run out. But I'm generally a person who tries to talk about things in which I feel strong enough. This is the area where I would leave my fragmentary thoughts to myself when I talk about this remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U406	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U407	Thank you. Good waitress! You're saying the whole purpose of this operation is to increase competition in the wholesale market. Now, if you look at those countries with similar restrictions on the chain of pharmacy owners, if you look at what is happening on the wholesale market there, it is not better to have a larger number of wholesalers or a smaller market share in the larger hands. What is your prediction, for example, how much competition has increased in a year's time? Do you foresee that wholesalers are more on the market than they are now, or do you foresee that the market share of larger wholesalers has been clearly reduced, for example by half? Or what do you predict, how this competition is better?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U408	Thank you. Firstly, the general comment: pharmaceutical policy is very specific in different countries and very many countries have introduced bad regulation. It's a fact, it's true. You didn't mention what countries you mean, but some I know and I can comment that there are also bad regulations. Of course, that does not mean that any regulation is bad. It is possible to do it well or badly. As far as the impact on competition is concerned, it depends on a great deal. It would be so easy to say that, from April 1st, suddenly everything is different. The nature may be so optimistic, but I believe that very much depends on the way in which the government institutions of the Republic of Estonia will implement the new regulations. Well, we know who's been called tank-to-tank pharmacists. The question is to what extent, in the case of a pharmacist's pharmacy, the actual freedom of the pharmacist is guaranteed when he has entered into a franchise contract. The state must certainly contribute to ensuring that this is guaranteed. On the previous item, we discussed the honourable questioner, I guess there was no proposal by Mr Lotman in the hall, which is also a proposal by the Competition Authority or rather a proposal by the Minister of Social Affairs, to give the Competition Authority the function of market and price regulator for medicines, so that we can actually finally understand how things are taking place there. Asymmetric information on this issue is one of the most serious shortcomings. It is difficult to find another area of regulated economy such as this, where the country has a very small understanding of the way in which business is done. Consequently, I think that, although many people feel that April 1 is the end of some sort of process, it is actually not the beginning of the process, but, let's say, the midterm finish. The reform has been legally implemented, and its substantive implementation with its implementing problems is yet to be implemented. And, as has been said, the reform of the pharmacy creates the prerequisites that if we can actually enforce the ban on vertical integration, competition will emerge on the wholesale market. We've got a lot of wholesalers in numbers, but a couple of bigger ones are holding on to the vast majority of the market. In order for the smaller ones to grow, perhaps some new ones to come, it is not enough that April 1 comes. This is certainly an important prerequisite, but further implementation is permanent work. I hope that you and the entire Riigikogu will continue to be passionate about this issue so that we can really establish a pharmaceutical market for the benefit of the patient.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U409	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U410	Since I didn't get an answer, I'm gonna ask you the other way around. Please tell me how much market shares of three or four major wholesalers should have decreased by, for example, 1 April 2021, so that it can be said that the reform has been successful. And do you even believe that their larger market share is actually falling?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U411	If the state, if the government agencies that implement this reform and have to carry out the statutory task of regulating and controlling the pharmaceutical market, do not do their job and read that their work will be done by 1 April, then I will not rule out that little will change. But I believe, actually, that I hope that this opportunity, which will now arise as a result of legislative changes on 1 April, will also be used by national officials to actually enforce and amplify these changes in the pharmaceutical market for the benefit of the patient. Its impact on the Estonian state and people is potentially very significant and positive, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U412	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. I now ask the Commission to present here the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Tõnis Möldri.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U413	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, At three sessions, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Drug Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party ambassadors. In addition to the initiators, representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Agency were invited to attend the first session. As the previous speaker mentioned, the representative of the Agency really concluded that the objectives of the draft could be achieved, but he also noted some of the problems that might arise. He also gave one concrete example that, if the licences were to be extended until 1 January next year in a settlement unit where no legal pharmacy existed, but the choice had to be made, for example, between the four non-compliant ones, how to deal with this situation. Which pharmacy will be granted this special permission? The representative of the Agency added that as of mid-February there were 35 municipalities or settlement units of Estonia where the pharmacy service would not be provided after 1 April. The Commission also noted that, as a possible solution, it was suggested that pharmacies could also be established by local authorities. This is certainly one of the issues that may need a broader debate. The Commission also met on 17 February to discuss this issue and, at this meeting, it was decided by consensus to appoint Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Commission as rapporteur, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session by 26 February, including the deadline for the amendments to be set at 12 noon on 4 March. At its third meeting on 20 February, the Commission decided by vote to reject the draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U414	You have questions too. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U415	Thank you. Good waitress! You have also been among the people who are very concerned about the entry into force of the Pharmacy Reform on 1 April. I'm gonna ask you what I asked the last waitress. If you are worried, this bill will provide measures to soften the transition. If your concern about closing pharmacies on 1 April is sincere, will you personally support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U416	Thank you. I am here as a Commission waitress, and I would not be very happy to talk about my personal opinion. However, I will continue to say that I am concerned about what will be after 1 April. I supported a different approach, but once again: I am the Commission's co-rapporteur, and I would not like to take a very long and thorough look at my opinion here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U417	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U418	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. President-in-Office of the Commission and rapporteur. My question is about the Commission's work, and I'm sure you can help me with that. I did not attend the first sitting in which it was discussed in depth and in substance. But you have very well invited the Minister to give an overview of the situation, and indeed, as has been pointed out here before, the Ministry, the Minister and the Agency have confirmed that there are no problems. I mean, the problems are being dealt with. I remember yesterday when you spoke about the EKRE draft, where the Agency's position was practically devastating, you didn't stop at that position for very long. Today, you pointed out that the EMA said that what was proposed in the bill was feasible, but there are minor problems. And I understand that there are problems, and you also gave an example. In the Commission's debate, however, was there anything positive in this draft that would be in favour of the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U419	Thank you. To be very honest with the whole of this Chamber, I must honestly admit that at this point we had already discussed the reform of the pharmacy, I dare say, one and a half hours and two hours before asking all the questions that came to mind about the two drafts. On this draft, we did not have so much powder in the Commission, and we did not discuss these issues very much, so the only main rapporteur was the Agency's representative with his thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U420	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U421	Thank you very much. Good waitress! In fact, this shows where the reform has come to: now we are talking about local governments having pharmacies. Fix it if it wasn't! But did the Commission also mention whether local governments would in any way receive these costs if they had to start running pharmacies to look after their people? And did the Commission say that really, if there is a choice between the four pharmacies, what criteria does the Agency choose between the four pharmacies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U422	Thank you for that question. I will answer the second part of this question: the criteria really have not been set out in this draft. The Agency said that it needs to be substantially specified how we come out of a situation where there really are four equal pharmacies. Whether we are going to look at turnover or something else, this should certainly be clarified during the draft procedure. Now, this local government issue. Once again: it was not the content of this draft; it was the opinion of one of the Members of the Commission that it could be one option. The Commission as a whole did not discuss it at any longer or more widely. So I do not know what the Commission's assessment of this matter would be. Local government, as we know, has this opportunity, but when we look at the law, we see that local government also has a lot of other tasks that need to be carried out first and foremost. I think that, as a whole, the Commission might not consider this to be quite reasonable in this form. But I don't know how to make a final assessment of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U423	Thank you. No further questions. We can go to the negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups can speak. First, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask the speaker to speak on Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U424	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see that there are more listeners in the Chamber than in the previous draft. On the previous draft, Urmas Espenberg, in addition to saying clearly that he did not support this draft, also explained that we had a big change coming: the pharmacy reform will enter into force on 1 April, and we can discuss these details later. Indeed, the content of the previous draft is not an acute solution to concern. We can discuss it again in May, we can discuss it again in autumn. But this draft, which concerns the clarification of the requirement of pharmacist property and the granting of new instruments to the Agency, is something with which we are in a hurry. We cannot discuss this in May or autumn. I'm going to go over these key points. Yesterday's debate on pharmacy reform ended with the Riigikogu reaffirming that there is no need to make a U-turn at the last moment. The decision taken five years ago should be finalized on 1 April. It is clear to us that on 1 April the pharmaceutical reform will come into force once and for all: vertical integration will end, the requirement of pharmacist property will apply. And even though for a long time it has been frightened that 317 or 318 pharmacies will close their doors on 1 April, we now know that this is not going to happen. At the same time, the situation varies considerably between regions. Indeed, just as we have great regional differences in income, teachers and family doctors are harder to find in rural areas, it is indeed harder to find pharmacists on land. At the moment, we are not talking about fundamental changes in the reform of the pharmacy. To give an analogy, we have discussed the law of psychiatric assistance quite thoroughly in this Chamber, for example, so that a minor can receive psychiatric assistance without the consent of the legislative representative. This is the type of bill that does not affect our health management as a whole. Maybe within a year, 10 children will need this help, but it is still important enough to make it happen. The draft we are discussing is the same type. This does not affect the wholesale or retail supply of medicines as a whole, even in the case of the entry into force of the pharmaceutical reform, it does not play a role in the big picture. But if the Agency can, after the entry into force of this bill, I don't know, Kuusalus, Laulasmaa and Rämejala make this exception and say, yes, you can get three months' extension to meet the requirement of a pharmacist's property, then it's important enough to support this bill. We are talking about the fact that a few rural areas may need this exception after 1 April. Maybe they need it for two or three months to comply with the law. I think that, as representatives of the people, we have this responsibility so that, in these three or ten places too, people would not suddenly feel shaken as a result of the reform of the pharmacy, but would be able to make a smooth final implementation of the law. And as Evgeni reported on the bill, this half-year mess has prevented both pharmacists and chain pharmacists from making a decision. So what happens on April 1st? Given that this obstacle is caused by conflicting signals sent by the Riigikogu and the government, I think that this... Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U425	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U426	If we ourselves have caused confusion, then now we will be able to provide an instrument to mitigate the effects of this confusion and ensure the final implementation of the reform of the pharmacy smoothly. And we're not the kind of 'kicks for you, money for me' market traders that yesterday didn't support the EKRE draft and today doesn't support the soccer bill. It does not matter who has submitted the draft. The important thing is this great goal. We understand that regional differences exist in Estonia. Yes, there is something more difficult to deliver in rural areas and more support is needed, exceptions are needed. Let's put the patients first! When we are talking here about Gypsy, Kuusalu, Räpina, these people are important enough to try to enable the Agency to implement the Pharmacy Reform smoothly. I hope that the conscience will work for everyone and everyone who has contributed to the confusion, that the pharmacy reform will vary here and there or not, will feel responsible for ensuring that the Agency has sufficient instruments to implement the pharmacy reform smoothly. I hope that everyone in this Chamber will support the swift processing of this draft and will not support its rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U427	Thank you. Urmas Espenberg, please, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group. Are you talking about this? Please, Urmas Espenberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U428	As my name has been mentioned, I will consolidate the reply and the position of our group. It's a little hypocritical to say that soccer cares about people's health. Yesterday, they didn't care at all. And that is why the EKRE Group is not in favour of this draft, so we recommend that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U429	Thank you. Next, please, on behalf of the Group of the Aivar Chef Isamaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U430	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I think the Troubles are up, and everyone understands that there are problems. And everyone is trying to solve these problems from different perspectives. The hall has a large number of people worried that suddenly the reform will change and become something, the other half is worried that 1 April is about to come. But no one has talked about one thing: we actually have three major pharmacy chains and the owners of the two chains are doing a little bit about how politely to formalize things so that each pharmacist has four pharmacies. But I have to tell you that one chain has so far not negotiated any negotiations with its pharmacists. And it may be that, since the Agency doesn't have any papers to give, a certain amount of pharmacies may be closed on 1 April. To think that's not gonna happen, we don't have anyone here today. But I am sad to say that when I asked today and when I said that it was not quite the case, it is actually clearly stated in the law that the owner or manager of a pharmacy will be when a person has worked as a pharmacist in a pharmacy for at least three years in the last five years. If a miracle happens and the first reading of this bill is completed in this Chamber today, then surely one amendment should be introduced. In other parts of the world, however, it is also the case that a pharmacist who has just graduated from school is certainly wiser than those who work for days because they do not have any new information. They've had a lot of experience, but someone from school knows more after graduation. What exams they all have to take! I think that taking exams in most other disciplines and finally getting a diploma is relatively easier. At the moment, we should take a serious look to ensure that we do not have a third of pharmacies closed on 1 April. The second thing is when we say that pharmacists are like the most talented group in the world: 100% of all are able to be entrepreneurs; only 5% of the rest of the people are born entrepreneurs. At the moment, however, it should be done quickly so that a pharmacist can own a pharmacy and run a pharmacy for the first year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U431	Evgeny Ossinovski, is there a line from the scene? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U432	Thank you. Since Mr Sikkut mentioned my name, it is indeed a reply. Mr Sikkut, of course, spoke the truth. There's nothing to say about that. But in response to Mr Espenberg, I must say that it may be difficult to understand, but it is possible to stand up for public health and public interests in such a way that the interests of the big businessmen do not have to be served at the same time. It's quite possible, we've done it, we recommend you too, much better feeling.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-26_U433	Thank you. The political groups have no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. As the Committee on Social Affairs has proposed to reject draft 141 SE first, we must vote on it. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft 141 proposals from the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The rejection is supported by 54 members of the Riigikogu, 11 against, no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Thank you very much. Our long day at work today is over. Have a good night. Closure of the sitting at 19.55 p.m.
