ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Let's start today's briefing. For starters, please check your presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U2	37 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present; 64 members are absent. Today's briefing will be attended by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior. As usual, there are two minutes to ask the question, and ministers have three minutes to answer. So we're asking you to stick to your time. It is possible to ask a specific question on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U3	Let's go to Question Time. The first questioner is Jevgeni Ossinovski. The question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas about the environmental policy choices of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U4	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! My question concerns environmental policy choices. Given the importance of looking at biodiversity in the context of climate change, the biodiversity situation around the world, in Europe and, in fact, in Estonia, is far from being commended. In fact, the situation is also in poor trend in Estonia. We know, for example, that 44% of the species of the Habitats Directive in the European Union, 43% of the habitats, and 48% of the bird population are in decline. In this context, different policies have been developed to improve the situation, as the situation is indeed becoming critical. The Government of the Republic finally reached positions in the context of the communication on the European Union's biodiversity strategy after long efforts, and Parliament can now discuss it. But the day before yesterday, the leaders of 64 countries signed a document such as 'The promise of the leaders to nature', before the biodiversity summit in the United Nations, which I think will take place today, if I am not mistaken. It was signed by 23 Member States of the European Union. Estonia is not among them. The countries of the European Union that did not sign it are Estonia, Poland, Romania and Croatia. All other countries, including all our neighbours, have supported this important agreement. For what reason did Estonia not join this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U5	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! First of all, thank you for this very important question, which concerns the very important environmental policy choices that Estonia is facing. What you mention, biodiversity, I think, is one of the very important components when we are talking about, for example, the development plan for Estonian forestry for the next ten years. We often see the forestry development plan only very narrowly. We only see it through the prism of economy and forest management, but I think this approach is much wider here. It certainly includes the forest as a leisure function. It certainly contains a cultural story related to the forestedness of Estonia. This certainly has to do with the same aspect of biodiversity that you pointed out. Estonia has, in principle, gone along with all environmental policy objectives, which have, I would say, been broader than the objectives of the European Union. With the Paris climate agreement, we have also actively engaged, climate neutrality within the European Union, the circular economy, the green deal or the green deal proposed by the Commission, we have gone along with all these projects. If you ask why Estonia was not among these countries, I will certainly specify and give you a detailed answer, which was the reason that we did not go along with this biodiversity proposal this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U6	Evgeny Ossinovski, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U7	Thank you. First of all, as Head of Government, I would doubtless like to wish you strength so that the forestry development plan, after this epic failure by the Ministry of the Environment, will finally reach the point where it can be presented to the Riigikogu and the felling volumes for the next decade will be on an ecologically sustainable level. It really depends a lot on that. I am, of course, surprised to hear that the Prime Minister has not been informed by the relevant authorities of this appeal, because indeed, when we look at the totally public statements of the signatory countries on this issue, the leaders of the vast majority of European Member States have signed and supported it by their name. The fact that we have not done this is certainly regrettable. But, yes, I'd be happy to expect that additional information from you. The second question is a bit broader, because this failure to sign the same promise of leaders actually fits in the pattern. The pattern is that although we have finally come to the right direction in most fundamental environmental agreements in the European Union, both in climate neutrality and in some other matter after hesitation, but if we look at the technical work that is being carried out at European Union level, we have very often stayed with about four countries on this side, which is in no way progressive in terms of climate policy. We fought to get 55%. We still do not support climate neutrality being mandatory for each Member State. How do you think that belonging to such a small club and the change that has taken place here in the case of Estonia is in Estonia's interest or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U8	Thank you. I must say, as an introduction, good Evgeny, that there were many false claims that must all be overturned by slices. First of all, I do not agree with this in any way (as your fellow Member Mr Ivari Padar said the last time), as if the Ministry of the Environment had failed the forestry development plan. I'll definitely disprove it. I do not deny that the subject is highly complex. Yeah, it's extremely complicated, there's a lot of different interest groups, that's true. Last time we were discussing (on this point Mr Ivari Padar asked) whether or not to extend it temporarily. I think we need to make every effort that is possible to quickly adopt a new forestry development plan. I believe that these efforts must be made every day. Point one. Point two you said, felling volumes. Yes, I agree that actually this most important part, I think, will be entangled in what the felling volumes will be. Our own methodology, as far as I know, is based on the Stockholm or Swedish methodology obtained in the nineties, which has always been improved and improved. The Estonian University of Life Sciences with its knowledge, with its input, has been the main partner of the Environmental Agency here. So we don't have a different methodology for assessing how much increase there is. I know that we have hundreds of such areas in Estonia's forests, which also change in certain parts of the year, where forest growth is appreciated. Estonia has had this approach. Even if we take the felling volume in comparison to the economic forest, if we separate and separate many other parts of the forest from it, such as conservation forests, then the felling volume has not actually exceeded the increase in any year, if we take the statistics from the beginning of this century. This is, in my opinion, a completely wrong statement that we have, in some way, fundamentally placed ourselves in another box with environmental policy, green agreement and climate policy objectives. I understand you're saying this, but that's not what you're saying. Estonia has agreed to a large number of sensible initiatives. We want a scientific approach to whether climate neutrality is or is not possible. It took three or four months. Here also came to the aid of the Academy of Sciences (thank you to the President of the Academy of Sciences, Finland) and I said that we agree with the pan-European climate neutrality. In addition to what I said in response to your first question, we have agreed to a great many initiatives. I don't agree with this kind of placement at all. I'm sorry, manager, that I went over time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U9	Thank you. Mart Networker, question in position, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! At the July Council, the Heads of Government reached an agreement on the budget of the European Union for the next period. You went there, as far as I know, with a mandate from the Riigikogu that Estonia's new taxes will not be supported. It was as if no new taxes were introduced, but an additional component of the contribution to the budget of the European Union was introduced on non-recoverable plastics. Different forecasts have once said that this is 20 million, and now this forecast has reached about 8 million. It is clear that the use of plastics must be reduced, which is probably also the point of this measure. At the same time, 8 million is a considerable amount. What has the government planned to do with the knowledge he has had since the summer? How can this amount be minimised for Estonia, what measures to take so that more plastic can be recovered and the Estonian state budget saves money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U11	Thank you for this good question. I'll answer the questioner before. Unfortunately, Mr Ossinovski went out of the Riigikogu hall, but I believe he will listen to the broadcast or read the verbatim. We are taking this new European Union target for 2030: reducing the footprint to 55%. Estonia already has this figure of 60% today and our goal is to bring it to 70% by 2030. So our environmental targets are much more ambitious than, for example, the 2030 Agenda. But now I'm going to answer your question. Yeah, I'm gonna go along with that first, if I understood your senses correctly, that we're not talking about a new tax, but this is the basis for the calculation. If you say it's a new liver, we're in different positions here. You ask what Estonia is doing or is going to do. Indeed, the basis of this calculation can theoretically be reduced to a minimum. This means that plastics must be recycled, recycled. Can't say we have no potential here. Yes, it is. I totally agree with that. First of all, the question is how well we're collecting this plastic, point one, how smart these technologies are, these solutions, to turn the plastic into some kind of raw material and from it to produce new products. There are quite a few of these opportunities in the world. We know that plastics are used, for example, in the textile industry, in the clothing industry, in plastic fibres. So I think that here Estonia can certainly take steps to make more plastic recycled and recycled. This calculation, which you said in the order of 10 or 8 million, really, about that magnitude it is. I think we need to make an effort to recycle more plastics, and I think that is what we are working for.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U12	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U13	Let's keep going. Question two. The questioner is Kristen Michal and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, is about aviation, associations and tourism. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U14	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The motivation and origin of this question is a riddle that has been circulating recently in the press. We have a busy minister in the government office, who first imposed restrictions, then fought them, but did not get over them for a while because the backward conservatives had entered the government, but eventually, with the support of the public and the press, they were defeated. I think you'll probably recognize yourself in this parable. I'd rather ask about the facts. During the restrictions on direct flights and direct contacts, entrepreneurs, politicians, different people who are concerned, said that this was not a wise thing. Economically, there will certainly be less investment in Estonia, those people who would like to make an effort even during difficult times maybe find it harder and so on. On the other hand, scientists who advise the government, such as Professor Irja Lutsar, the head of the scientific council, said that it was also very difficult to find a scientific justification for this. It's rather counterproductive, it's flying on different flights. Now let's look at the numbers. I took out the date on which these restrictions were imposed: from 18 May onwards. They've been extended several times. You've even written a story about the Nightshade on this subject. But looking at the European average, from May to now, the infection has increased considerably. I have a question for you: if the prohibition of direct flights with science, economics or viral arguments does not justify what, good friend? I'd like an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U15	Thank you for your question. I would like to explain once again how the restrictions started and why they were introduced. The right thing is that these restrictions were actually imposed at the beginning of the summer. But you certainly have no right to the honor of imposing these restrictions on me alone. Unfortunately, the Minister does not have such a power in the Republic of Estonia that he can prohibit or permit flying. These restrictions started with the Baltic States trying to find an agreement among themselves on how to open one another's borders. Negotiations between health ministers were also part of this agreement. Health ministers agreed criteria on the basis of which the Baltic States will allow people to enter their country, how this will happen and how traffic will take place outside these countries. The Government of the Republic heard this and decided that these were reasonable agreements, and that these agreements would be valid in all three Baltic States, then the Government of the Republic decided that they were valid in Estonia. So this restriction was decided by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Yeah, as a minister, I put it in the form of a minister's decree. I think that when the restrictions came into force, they were very reasonable. The Baltic bubble worked very well, people were able to move to the Baltic countries and disease remained relatively low for a long time, in fact throughout the summer. At the end of the summer, there was a situation where illness started to grow rapidly in the world or in Europe. Surely it was reasonable to maintain these restrictions for some time. But at one point, when the disease was already very widespread in Europe, there really was a risk that all destinations from Tallinn might fall under these restrictions. Then the Government of the Republic decided that the six destinations are those that remain open, regardless of the rate of illness, in order to ensure mobility. Indeed, later there was a discussion in the government about whether it would be reasonable to lift these restrictions. No doubt, I think you are aware (you have also been a member of the coalition government) that government decisions require the consensus of all parties. This consensus has now been reached and the restrictions have been lifted. The problem should be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U16	Kristen Michal, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister, about that I was looking forward to. If the infection was low, we imposed restrictions, if the infection is higher, we'll take it down. We created the difficulties ourselves, we solve them ourselves, and we could finally share each other's prizes for vigour. But that's it. I have another question. I've also heard the story of a sturdy minister fighting in the government. All other countries are, or European countries are, at most always acting on behalf of the Communities, on behalf of aviation and all other associations. Lufthansa is looking for support, airBaltic and everyone else looking for support, Nordica the same way. In this area too, many people, both in aviation and tourism, especially in the Tallinn-Harju region, have suffered very badly, waiting for different messages and not only messages but also actions. In the financing of Nordica, which is just part of this chain of interconnections, I understand so, the sturdy Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, within the government, is fighting a conservative wing. I have a question. How can we support you on what kind of help you would need so that you can resume your vigorous fight within the government again? Maybe we could make that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U18	Thank you. First of all, it is undoubtedly a pleasure to recognise that a minister is also vigorous, and that is good to hear. I also believe that connections are important, but once again, the basis for these flight restrictions was an agreement between the Baltic States, where Estonia was not acting alone. As far as Nordica is concerned, I really think that Nordica should be supported. We need our own company, we have an emergency exit, in case. Nordica's business plan, which has also been adapted during the corona crisis, is one that ensures the company's sustainable activities through outsourcing, while maintaining the ability to operate direct flights from Tallinn if necessary. We have three partners in the coalition. One of the partners was in the government at a time when Estonia's aviation had very difficult times in the past, and that is why they and the other partner want to have confidence that if this money is given to Nordica, 30 million is not a small amount of money, it is a very large amount of money, it will be spent according to purpose, and secondly that this money will really help this company survive the crisis, deliver it economically in the future and be ready to fly from Tallinn if necessary. I don't see anything strange about partners wanting this fortress. I, as the responsible minister in this area, will, of course, try to give them this assurance. If you want to support this process, I fully agree with it, I very much hope for your support. The more Nordica has fans, the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U19	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U20	Dear Minister, I would like to add, first of all, to your comments on air traffic restrictions, that your own letter of 17 May introduced air traffic restrictions. My question is also about connections, but not about air connections, but about road connections. This concerns the budget and budget strategy for next year. The government made two major investments yesterday in road construction. I am talking about new constructions, not the continuation of existing ones: they are the section of Kärevere and the intersection of Tartu Riga. When I look at the road plan, I'm reading at least 14 sections of the road, a road object that could start building in the next few years. Why are only two out of 14 sections available in investments? Besides, this Kärevere is a small piece of Kardla, four miles [4.4 km] long. But I didn't hear anyone talking yesterday about those road sections that are on hold and where construction could begin in the coming years, which are in the Pärnu Ikla direction, including the slippery-Are pilot project, which you were talking about recently in response to your inquiry. If the country has such a wild grip on the loan money, not the 2.4 billion that will be taken next year, but also the 2.8 billion that has been taken this year and which had to be on hold to produce investments, so we are talking about 5 billion, why are there only two objects here, including a small section of Kärevere, at the same time as 14 sections of the road, the object is on the road map and their construction could begin in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U21	Thank you. First from the beginning, from this May 17th decree. As I said before, there is not such a powerful minister in the Republic of Estonia who can give an order to stop or permit traffic on his own. This decree is based on the decision of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the decision of the Cabinet. Consequently, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure issued this decree. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure was not in a position to behave differently. If the Cabinet's decision is such that such a decision must be implemented, then the Minister of the Government of the Republic will do so. Otherwise, I would have just ignored the office's decision. I don't think it's legal. I acted as a law-abiding citizen, a law-abiding minister, and I issued this decree. Once again, it was not my own activity. Now for the road construction. I'm pretty sure you're aware that road construction must be preceded by design, pre-work, land acquisition, often environmental research. It is not possible that the Government of the Republic will one day release money and the next day drive the roadrolls out. We can build you exactly as many projects as we have. As the minister responsible for the field, I would certainly be pleased if we had more projects ready and could certainly build more. I think you are as well aware as I am that 2 + 2 roads have been built for the first time this year, EUR 5 million in this year's budget and EUR 5 million again next year. This will provide a basis for us to build 2 + 2 roads at a faster pace and on a larger scale in the future. But first we have to prepare the projects. Unfortunately, there aren't any.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U23	Let's move on, today's third question. The author of the question is Jaak Juske, the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas about the referendum. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U24	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! EKRE, your good coalition partner, is known to continue to wish to hold a referendum on the subject of marriage on the same day as the election of local government councils next year. It has been pointed out as a criticism that holding a referendum, referendum and local elections on the same day is not a good idea, as it would draw attention away from the issues of local life. It is also a criticism that this would create a great deal of confusion in the electorate, since, as we know, the participants in the referendum and the electorate in the local elections are quite different. On the basis of this criticism: are you, Prime Minister, ready to open a coalition agreement to review this unreasonable point, or do you continue to support your coalition partner, the EKRE, in the fact that it is absolutely necessary to hold a referendum on the same day as the local elections next autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U25	Thank you, good questioner. I certainly support this coalition agreement and I support both coalition partners, both the EKRE and the Fatherland. I must tell you in secret that I also support the third coalition partner, the Central Party. But I think constructive cooperation with the opposition is always important. When it comes to this referendum, a coalition agreement has been agreed to carry it out. I'm sure we'll honour the coalition agreement. EKRE has also developed a draft to this effect, which has been sent to coalition partners. I really have to admit, because of the budgetary process that has been in September, that it will be possible for you today, 30 September 2020 for the Lord to transfer the state budget for the following year, we have been working for it, it has taken its time, given the complexity of today's situation (economic crisis, health crisis, huge forecasting) that we will certainly come back to this issue in the coming weeks. The budget and budget mathematics have, of course, moved from the government to the Riigikogu. The task of the Riigikogu is to adopt the budget and make a good budget for Estonia for next year. So we are definitely going on with this. If your undertone is whether we are doing something unconstitutional, or if it is a question of some kind of sense, I will tell you, Mr. Juske, that I may not have said it in the pre-recedent Question Time, but in no way do I support any kind of anti-constitutional activity. I understand you, as a skilled politician, are asking if we are now opening a coalition agreement. No, I do not think that we will certainly open it in terms of principle, but, if any adjustments are needed, what may be unconstitutional must be looked at. But I'm telling you, there's a bill today. I think we'll be working in the coming days, in the coming weeks, to conduct this survey. It must eventually come before the Riigikogu if we are to carry it out in the form of a referendum, which we wish to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U26	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U27	Thank you. Prime Minister! I understand from your answer that you are fully supporting the EKRE on this issue, there will be a referendum and certainly a referendum on the same day as the local elections, which, as I have read to you, will certainly create a great deal of confusion in the electorate and is not the best idea. I will continue with this issue of referendum or referendum. You said here in the spring, in response to a question from our group, that you think it would be enough today to have a completely current family law that says that marriage can only be between a man and a woman. Is it still reasonable to hold this referendum on the basis of your conviction? What if the current wording of the family law is enough? Or, again, you are totally supporting the EKRE, who is definitely calling for a referendum, where they say there is a question as to whether marriage can only be a permanent alliance between one man and one woman? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U28	Thank you. Powerful metaphors: Completely. If you think about what you can fully support, then Estonia, Estonia's survival, the survival of Estonian language, culture, the survival of our country, the survival of our people, etc. They're important, they're nonexistent. As far as today has come out of the debate, also from the correspondence (I remember the last time it was said, I don't know why, I didn't understand it, the Riigikogu was a very big laughter), which has been held by Archbishop Viilma and the Chancellor of Justice, where the question of how to put a referendum on this Riigikogu, which would change the Constitution, is possible. This is how I understand it, but it requires the Riigikogu to give it its support with 61 votes. If there are fewer than 61 votes, it seems to me that there will be this aspect of constitutional assessment and that it will have to be assessed. Now your claim that if it is on the day of the local elections, then it would somehow be contrary to the Constitution. I'm sorry if I misunderstood. But I do not know at the moment that this assessment is contrary to the Constitution. You said it could be a lot of confusion. Yes, we know that when a question is put to a referendum, there are quite a few parts of society that cannot vote. Let's just take the people of the age of 16 to 17 who can vote in local elections, but they can't vote in referendums. So here's a really different approach. I think it is important that we achieve the best approach. You referred to my reply to the honourable Socialists and to the members of your group. Yes, I said in my reply that I clearly support today what the family law says is that marriage is between a man and a woman. I think it should stay that way, I'm in favour of it. Personally, I think it's a very strong message that it is, and it's written in the law. In order to raise this level of ambition, the coalition negotiations had a common position between the three parties that we want to go out with it. We have not changed this position, as I said earlier. Of course, we want to comply with the coalition agreement, but I do not think that it is possible that we do so in breach of the Constitution. As far as I know, this debate, which I referred to earlier, has already come up with a principle or a theoretical legal opportunity to carry it out as a matter of other state life and to carry it out in such a way that it actually rises to the level of the Constitution in terms of its strength and its content.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U29	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U30	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! My question concerns some of the other elections that are currently under way, namely the American presidential elections. The minister of your government, the Minister of the Interior, goes around in symbolism and supports one of the presidential candidates. It has been good practice, of course, not to interfere in the internal policies of other countries, especially those of the allies, because we have to work together, no matter who is in the government or who is going to be president. Choosing a party just before the elections is not as if it makes sense. So I'm asking if this support for one candidate is the official position of your government that you can go to official meetings with this symbolism. If not, have you condemned such action and called the Minister of the Interior to order, or are you going to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U31	Thank you. First of all, I say with all seriousness that transatlantic relations, bilateral relations between Estonia and the United States are fundamental, strategic, extremely important for us. I think we are seeing clearly how Estonia's bilateral relations with the United States have strengthened in recent years, and this is positive. Whether this is a defence area or a much wider area, such as the 5G issue, where I have personally agreed a joint declaration with Vice-President Pence of the United States. I think it's very good. I also believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken a very active role in strengthening relations between Estonia and the United States. If your question is whether I am going to tell one of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, in this case a member of the Government of the Republic, the Minister of the Interior, that I do not ask you to wear this, that or the third sign, which is in no way against the independence of Estonia or Estonian statehood, I will not do so under any circumstances. I remember when the president came to the Riigikogu hall when we took the oath of office with this coalition and said that the word was free. I very much hope that you will not now call for me to start restricting freedom of expression in any way. If the Home Secretary says he's supporting Donald Trump, he's backing him. I don't see any problem with that. But one thing you said, I agree: it is not a question of who this woman is or who this man is, no matter what side of the United States is. The President of the United States is not elected by the Riigikogu, the people of Estonia do not elect, he is elected by the United States on the basis of its own rules and regulations. In the fact that our people support one candidate or another, I do not see any problem. I would rather tell you honestly that I think there has been a bit of a problem when we talk about today's President of the United States, who has presented very strongly when we look at defence policy, those messages that have been crucial to Estonia over the years, so that the NATO Member States contribute a minimum of 2%. I've been to these meetings myself three or four times. I can see that this movement has taken place, that the Member States that contribute 2% are already twice as much. I sense that sometimes, as they say, I don't know if it's the right thing to do. I think this is the right thing to do when we look at defence policy. But, of course, whoever is President of the United States, for Estonia at any time, this strategic partnership relationship, the transatlantic relationship, is crucial.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U32	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U33	Let's keep going. Today's fourth questioner is Jürgen Ligi, a question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas about the corona measures. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U34	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! There has been a very broad consensus on the economic measures taken during the Coronary period on three points: sickness days, tax interest reduction-stopping and, in particular, wage support. It's been there since spring. But there hasn't been that consensus in the rest. Experts, market participants, I am not talking about the opposition here. It has also been very critical at times. How do you feel about the rest of this package? Do you think there have been failures? Do you agree with the criticism and what things would you do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U35	Thank you. You're asking a lot for that kind of hindsight, aren't you? Wisdom in hindsight is also, I would say, worthy wisdom, nor is that bad wisdom. However, when it comes to whether there has been a very strong consensus on the three measures that you have said, I think that there have also been very many differences of opinion as to whether or not to do so. It's been that way. Looking at this package of economic measures as a whole, I think they have contributed. In particular, I say thank you to the Riigikogu. You adopted this year's extra budget, I think it was very operational, but the government prepared it, too, very operational. This actually helped the Estonian economy very strongly. You mentioned one, the same unemployment fund measure. We can say it was certainly effective, but we know it was very expensive. In fact, this measure also took a very rapid course. But yes, of course, very many people still remained in employment, and I think it was the right measure at that point. Next, what other measures we have taken. Of course, measures to invest are already being taken by the public sector with the same additional budget. I think this has been a very good step. I think it has also been very strong support for local authorities. On the one hand, their ability to implement various investments very quickly is high. On the other hand, it is clear that when local authorities tender for the implementation of investments, it can be assumed that on-site companies will also get more work. I think that the measures taken through EAS, the tourism measure, the measure to support small and medium-sized enterprises, went in at the time, if you remember, the island subsidy measure, have been good and the right measures, urgent measures. Now forward, KredEx measures. First of all, these big strategic decisions that have come to government level. We cannot say that we have supported all the proposals that have been 10 million and more. There has also been a company for which we said that we do not consider it right to support it. I think maybe this core will go where you're asking about. Yes, the government must decide whether or not we support one, the other or the third request. I think the subsidies we have issued have been correct. They have been linked to stimulating the economy and maintaining employment, many of which are engaged in export and tourism activities. We have also always assessed what is the so-called "reverse" or budgetary impact if these companies continue to operate. What's to deny is that it's been a lot of money coming back as tax money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U36	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U37	Thank you. I rely on expert opinion. It's not hindsight, as you said in the introduction, it's the story of spring. I'll try to be more specific. The terms of KredEx were that money stopped and so far much money stands. It is unusual for the government to grant some kind of individual loan to individual companies at all. We also have no payments (until the last moment, I do not know the current state) for Tallink or Estonian Air, sorry! , Nordica. Then we have had a question of proportions about how a minister gets a very coarse sausage, as Mr Aller did, and some very small ones, such as Mr Siem. His money was largely unusable and most of the package has not actually entered the economy. I don't know if you've talked about all this, but I was hoping you'd recognize something. Sounds like a surprise to you. Are you satisfied with the support of Porto Franco, for example? Here, even Eesti Pank has gone into detail and said that it is in no way a crisis measure, that why a Russian loan was refinanced. So keep it open in that sense. Does it seem to you that something has been hit by the criticism that has sounded, and do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U38	Thank you. First of all, I think that this monitoring information on the measures will be collected by the Ministry of Finance and will also publish it regularly on its website. On Monday the Riigikogu special committee on the control of the state budget received a final overview of this. Feedback on measures has been positive. By the beginning of September, 98% of benefits and grants to natural persons and 73% of operating grants to companies have been paid out. I certainly do not agree with criticism, such as a measure designed for companies, for example, for loans or guarantees, would have been ineffective. The buffers created have given businesses and banks the confidence that was urgently needed at the time. I would like to compare it with such a tragic example that when a house burns, there is never too much water stored to erase, especially in an insecure environment. And we've been in the spring, we're in a very precarious environment today. Or another example: if the airbag in the vehicle is not used daily, it does not mean that it is ineffective. Maybe going ahead with that example: you said that the KredEx measures stood. You know very well why some of the measures, such as guarantee measures, stood. You stood because the banks at that moment gave a special holiday, which I have met with basically all the managers of Estonian banks. In particular, that was the reason, but this does not mean that this measure is not needed at one point. So, in my opinion, this comparison is certainly not correct. Look, the same comparison with the airbag: we hope that it will never be needed, but that does not mean that it is an ineffective measure. You brought out a few companies and brought out Porto Franco. I also had a sense of the first question that this direction actually goes there. There have also been a great many Estonian entrepreneurs at public conferences, for example, the Council of Experts on which I asked to meet, were Estonian entrepreneurs who said that all these specific subsidies to companies are very wrong, starting with Tallink and ending with Porto Franco. In principle, the government has considered, examined and discussed all these companies on KredEx's proposal at least twice: whether to enter into contractual negotiations at all and whether to conclude an agreement. In the case of Porto Franco, if you specifically ask, there is a very large construction industry, several hundred employees, a setback in taxes of over 20 million. They were all important in terms of employment and economic stimulus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U39	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Today you hand over the National Budget of 2021 to the Riigikogu. As far as you can hear from the media or press conferences, and also read from your Facebook page statement, there are a number of important and good things: testing for the crown virus, vaccines, and also strengthening the Health Board. Of course, it is particularly worth improving the availability and quality of health services. I am referring here to regional hospitals. The topic of Viljandi Hospital, true, has been on the table and supported by several previous governments, and now it has also been built behind the money, it is a very grateful thing. My question, however, concerns what has not yet been read, the budget has not yet been transferred, it concerns sick days. True, the principle is that you do not work when you are sick. I think that's what a lot of people come from. Looking at how the kroon virus has also shown an increase in Estonia, we are already approaching the highest peak in spring, how is compensation for sick days planned? Today is the first three days free of charge for the human being. What is the plan if illness increases? We know that going to work sick on the first day can infect a large number of people, bystanders. Maybe you can enlighten the plan that the government has? Tanel Kiik in the Committee on Social Affairs said that disputes and discussions are ongoing, has been being discussed since the second day of compensation, but what is the state of play? In fact, the first day can become fatal and decisive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U41	Thank you very much. First of all, on the basis of your question, thank you for your good words. I think we are in a very serious health crisis and a very strong economic crisis. When we think about the European Union's re-launch plan, there are mainly, to a great extent, three reforms: environmental, digital and health reform. In my opinion, precisely because of your question, it is important that we also contribute to the European Union's resources, but not only, in certain places, our own resources, so that in the healthcare sector, in the hospital system as much as possible as quickly as possible, we do not solve all the issues where there is an opportunity, then 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024, to resolve the issues. You called Viljandi. No, I cannot say that, in fact, we know very clearly that it has been decided in the past to use European Union money there too. These works have already started. I think it is quite logical that we do not create a situation where European Union money has been used, certain preparatory work has been carried out, mainly underground, as far as I know, pipes and routes have been prepared, and now we say no, we do not see any more money there. This would mean automatically, point one, that a substantive, important object will not be finished, and point two, we have to start paying back that money, too, and that would be in no way reasonable. But there are other hospitals. I am pleased that we can contribute, for example, to emergency medicine in Järvamaa or Hiiumaa. Also North-Estonian Regional Hospital, University of Tartu Hospital, these are actually the places where I think urgent steps need to be taken. I am also very pleased that we are contributing to the creation of about 9 million isolation wards across Estonia, estimated at a little over 170, and also COVID scenarios B and C. In addition, there is also a fundamental decision that has been very much discussed about putting together the so-called East and West Tallinn Hospital, about the creation of a new hospital near the Song Square. This could now be the beginning of design and construction. The change in sickness days is not in the budget at the moment, even this year, when we did it, we did it as a temporary measure, at least at the moment there is no plan to change it. The Minister of Social Affairs is absolutely right; he has come to the office with at least two or three alternatives. These discussions must certainly continue. In this sense, I agree with your principle one hundred percent: when you are ill, whatever our system is, you cannot work; this may, especially in today's situation, give rise to very serious negative repercussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U42	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U43	Let's keep going. The next questioner is Kalle Laane. Question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas about the analysis of the first wave of COVID-19. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U44	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! First of all, a little comment on the question of a good colleague, Helmen Hunt: it is certainly worth thinking about who will work when there are crisis situations. The previous crisis showed that workers tended to stay home, especially when they were still working on the line. But that's it. On 9 March the Riigikogu held a meeting of the National Defence Committee, on the agenda of which the discussion of the draft National Defence Act was on the agenda. We had been discussing this draft with the Members of the Commission for several months. Many members of the Commission, including myself, had no assurance that the governance scheme, starting with the resolution of civil crises, i.e. the regulation of the emergency, to the management of martial law, would ensure the efficiency, security and security of the Estonian people and the state. We had previously met many specialists and senior officials. This time, too, visitors from different agencies took part in the Commission meeting. One of the guests was a high-ranking official of the Health Board, and his name is not going to be mentioned because he no longer works in this office. COVID-19 was already knocking on our door. Memory update: On March 11 the first corona positives were discovered in Saaremaa and on March 13 a special situation was established in Estonia. I asked the Health Board specialist hypothetically that if five corona positives were discovered in different parts of Saare County within 24 hours, who would implement what activities, who would lead, who would be responsible. His answer to me was that we are guided by the general principles of public health. I've specified what the clerk means by that. I got the same answer. I must admit that I have studied the law on public health and still do not know what the official meant by his reply. Here's my question to you: what could be answered today when the second wave of COVID-19 is getting a new momentum, a similar question from the Health Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U45	Thank you. Mr. Laane, since you are asking about the analysis of the first wave of COVID-19, I really want to start by thanking you very much for Saaremaa. First of all, I would like to say that we are taking Saaremaa out of this COVID issue. Saaremaa is a beautiful, beautiful and lovely island, and I hope that many tourists will come through Muhumaa and that there will be also Muhumaa and the economy will go on, life will go on. But when we talk about coronavir, yes, the hitting of Saaremaa was certainly very strong. This pressure in Saaremaa, I think the whole hospital and medical system was covered by, was remarkable. But I want to say thank you to the people of Saaremaa, the crisis committee of Saaremaa, who worked every day. I know you personally were one of those people there, too. Thank you very much for your contribution to helping you find the best opportunities! The state came to the aid of Saaremaa as soon as possible. We also had talks with the then mayor, who was chairman or head of the crisis committee, and government decisions were born there. On March 12th, if I'm not mistaken, the emergency situation was established at the last hour. Since then, it can be said that full control of the entire corona crisis was at the table of the government. By that time a COVID-19 government commission had been set up. I remember, on the morning of March 12, in this honourable Riigikogu speech chair, I said that I think it should work two or three times a week. Looking back, I think this committee worked six times a week in the first weeks. So that's where the guidance came from. I do not know what the Health Board official said to you at the time in the committee, and if you ask what the Health Board official would say today, these are all speculations, we speculate on the thoughts of third people. I think we've learned a lesson. I'm talking about today's Health Department. You said the person had left. Well, some people have left, the leaders have left, there's an actress out there today, and a new head of office will start tomorrow. I would like to say that at least this period, when today's Acting Actor has run the Health Board, I think cooperation with the government is quite different, communication is quite different, information exchange is quite different and positive. In my opinion, the Health Board has also gone very specifically to ban certain things. I remember having a hard discussion about one camp, hippie camp. The health department has made a very strong decision that this cannot be done. I also believe that the daily cooperation of the Health Board with the Police and Border Guard Board has improved very strongly and it is very good to say that COVID positive and close contacts are being monitored.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U46	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U47	I agree with you, Prime Minister, that the cooperation between you and the Saaremaa Crisis Committee was extremely good. Today, for example, the Saaremaa Crisis Committee has gathered again to discuss the new situation. But the fact that everyone understood, I also mean the senior civil servants, that there is a crisis in Estonia, I dare say the opposite on the basis of my personal experience. For example, on Friday, March 13, I had a phone call with a senior head of the ministry. I said we had a problem, we had a problem, and I was told that the hospital managers would agree to help each other. We know exactly that no agreement in a crisis situation is practically possible. It's not quite as rosy as it looks. As a result, I still have the question: has the government, or some particular ministry, carried out an analysis, what happened, how happened, what went well, what went badly after this first wave? We are now approaching the numbers that were at the beginning of April, i.e. if today there were 46 infected for 100,000, the highest number has been 53. We're approaching it at high speed. What should we do differently? My question, however, is whether an analysis has been carried out and, if not, when it will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U48	Thank you. I just want to say that I did not say that everyone understood that there was a crisis. I agree with that. I think very few may have sensed how big this crisis is. When we are talking about the dates of 12 or 13 March, I must say that there were still very serious discussions about this particular situation, whether it is reasonable or not. On the same morning of 12 March, there was a debate about whether we are still in danger of an emergency or whether we are in an emergency. In my opinion, there was a wall-to-wall perception of how deep it was, how dangerous it was. I wouldn't say it was one. I thought it was understandable that this was not just a health issue, it was a matter of movement of people, an economic issue, a question of transnational communication, a question of foreign policy. Let us be honest, there was also a question of whether it could not develop at one point into a so-called security deficit. Your question is about the analysis. I can say that I believe that this issue has been analysed at the government level, I do not know, from the first minute, as much as it was possible to carry out these analyses at that point, because it was necessary to make very operational decisions at all times, in minutes and hours. Yes, I think, in terms of analysis, we are in a better position today, that we can say that there are more personal protective equipment. We can say that there should be more controlled breathing devices (we hope they won't be needed) than there was at the time. Back then, there were the first signals that came to me that there were a few hundred breathing aids. When the Defence Field Hospital came to the aid of Kuressaare, there came dozens more of them. Today we've ordered more. What else? I'm sure all the testing capabilities have increased, we're stronger. The side of analyses and studies has certainly grown very strongly. We have contributed, as far as our ability allows, to vaccines, to the creation of reserves. This is all we've done more. Plus the day-to-day work. As I said, the front front desk is run by the Police and Border Guard Board and the Health Board, and they work well together. You said this number has grown very big. We need to look at some more numbers. We need to check the numbers on how many people there are in the hospital. Thank God this number is small. Thank God, the number on controlled breathing is very small. At the moment there are also deceased due to the COVID-19, if we look from the beginning of the summer, also one is of course much less than it was in the spring. We need to look at more characteristics, not just that coefficient for 100,000.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U49	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U50	The next questioner is Katri Raik, the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas about corruption. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U51	Good President! Good Prime Minister! Today, 30 September, Estonia has to submit its report to the international anti-corruption organisation GRECO. In 2018, this organisation gave us 15 recommendations, seven on senior officials, members of the government and political advisors, and eight on police. It is our duty to present this report, not an opportunity, because we have joined the relevant convention. At the beginning of this week's meeting of the Special Committee on Corruption, it became clear that, unfortunately, the government has not taken the relevant decisions and, therefore, we have been able to comply with two of the seven high-ranking points. I would like to point out here that the Coalition Agreement mentions the increase in transparency as a separate point. It was on the government agenda since March. It's true, in the meantime, the COVID-19 had a lot to do with it. At the end of August, you discussed this at a government meeting, but you didn't make a decision. All this time, from March to August, the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption also sought clarity. The Ministry of Justice didn't share the material with us, we got the material from the State Chancellery. If we fail to comply with two thirds of the recommendations, GRECO is actually right, even the duty to give us an injunction. I would also like to point out that, after the last round of evaluation, we were in fifth place after the Nordic countries and the United Kingdom. If we have concluded a contract with the law firm FSS to deal with reputational damage related to the breach of anti-money laundering rules, how do we plan to deal with the reputational damage caused by the non-implementation of the GRECO recommendations, or how have you planned to deal with it? So it's a matter of reputational damage. How do we try to avoid this reputational damage in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U52	Thank you, Katri Raik. First of all, I think that reputational damage in general is always a crucial issue, especially for our country. Everything should be done for this purpose and this due diligence should be carried out, a proactive line should be kept so that reputational damage is as low as possible. All of us have to stand up for this. We know that the biggest reputational damage that has occurred in recent years is the same reputational damage to money laundering. Huge damage to Estonian business, the Estonian economy was affected by all the activities that took place in 2008-2015. In this sense, I agree with you that maintaining a reputation every day, working for it and working for it, so that our reputation is not harmed, is extremely important. Your question was about GRECO. Yeah, I get it, you said it was on the agenda of the office. In principle, all things can be put on the agenda of the cabinet, which does not mean that they will come to the debate tomorrow. That's not how this system works, point one. Point two is that we cannot overcome or reverse the fact that on 12 March, as I previously replied to Mr Laanet, the emergency situation began in Estonia. And the special situation wasn't just that the days went on in the normal rhythm, but you also pointed out that there was a corona virus. With this, indeed, no jokes, I dare say here before the Riigikogu that the entire government and, above all, the government's COVID commission were involved. I'd say we met about six times a week, and seven times we were in contact with different agencies over the phone. This work was tense, but it is not complaining, but I think that this work, in cooperation with scientists, scientific councils and specialists, has also produced results, so that the virus created less of us, our economy, our society. We really discussed GRECO things here a while ago. No, I wouldn't say it was somehow undecided. We wanted the Ministry of Justice to further specify our particular positions, and we will certainly come back to that in the near future. This issue has not stood anywhere, but it was quite, I would say, a serious, substantive and constructive debate on the recommendations of the GRECO, which Mr Raivo Time, Minister for Justice, pointed out. The debate was very interesting and very active. Of course, to do everything to fight corruption, I think, is purely thoughtful, elementary. But yes, some clarifications remained, and we will certainly come back to this in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U53	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U54	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. GRECO actually postponed that deadline when they asked for a reply. They pushed it today, September 30th. Still, it is a shame that these issues have not yet been decided by the government. I hope that they will be decided in the near future. But my continuing question is that you or the government have had two very sensitive documents on the table from the same package. One concerns the rules for avoiding conflicts of interest between government members and political advisors and the other concerns the rules for lobbying. Can you answer whether you are in favour of accepting these documents in an unchanged form, as the Ministry of Justice has now proposed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U55	Thank you. I am seriously saying that there was also a very substantive debate on these points. Really, we will come back, I think, in the near future, to these recommendations. I think it's not just government members, politicians, councillors. Of course, this work must be transparent and this work must be concrete in that sense, honest, that there can be no manifestation of corruption or activities that are prone to corruption. In my opinion, this was very clearly the wish of all the members of the government to stand up for it very specifically and clearly. Now what you said, the so-called lobbyists' list, or how this lobbying should work. It is, I think, very difficult to regulate. What exactly does that mean? I don't know if when a person says he's from the private sector, you have to write down how long the meetings were, where they happened, what was the content of the meetings. I think these details need to be discussed. But I think it is important to stand up for any form of corruption, even in the case of the first rooster step. It can't be! I'm sure the government is in favour of that. How exactly is it gonna be? Give me some time here, please. Like I said, we'll come back to that in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U56	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U57	Thank you. The end of the answer was pretty good, but I put myself as a questioner to understand you. I find it corrupt that in most of your answers, you comment on the questioner and give clues, especially comfortably, about some distant past. Like Katri Raig, you threw corruption back on the subject of money laundering. I think it's corrupt when government members smear the past. It is the duty of the members of the government to defend Estonia's reputation and to tell those of them that we actually had, as of 2014, that this has been said by FI in terms of money laundering, Danske money laundering, essentially suspended and regulations very good. Mr. Ratas, listen to me, here comes my question. There is no doubt that this process has taken some time, but it has actually been completed before you. You've been wanting to get a fine from America for this reputational damage. Does this attitude of yours, that you have to smear the past, increase your chances of getting a fine? After all, you are actually soiling the reputation of the Estonian state and, at the same time, you want to present the Estonian state as a victim of damage. Which is it, is the Estonian state a victim or a perpetrator, and which would be the hope of getting more penalty money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U58	Thank you. To tell you the truth, I pulled my ears, which now, Mr. Ligi, has happened to you that such a positive start. Thank you for the good words that are quite rarely heard from you, I thank you for this positive tone. But then it went into the normal rhythm. Katri Raik told me about the reputation. Next to that, his question, as he had registered, was about corruption. He brought this parallel to the fact that if there is corruption, it will be a severe blow to Estonia's reputation in the international arena. I really replied that the hardest I believe has been the same issue of money laundering in the recent past. For some reason, when we are discussing this issue of money laundering, it is you personally, Mr Ligi, that is something that you are getting very excited about in this matter. I think, and I hope I'm right that we both stand for the bad thing that was in the past, it's a serious lesson, and we're going to get stronger from here, so there's no money laundering. That should be our starting point. At least it seems to me that this would be a reasonable starting point. But somehow you're about to feel some kind of personal thing here that somehow you're being attacked by it. I continue to think that we need to address money laundering seriously. I am pleased that today's government, including today's Minister of Finance, is taking this very seriously. We have provided for next year's budget, of course, if the Riigikogu approves of it, and in next year's budget strategy, first of all, to bring the Anti-Money Laundering Data Bureau under the Ministry of Finance, but also to strengthen it, we have foreseen about 3 million additional funds per year. I think this is very necessary, very important. Why has the Estonian state signed this agreement with the law firm? Because of its interests in a large country in the United States, a very complex judicial system in a country with jurisdiction. The United States is a very distant country for us. Does Estonia want anything there? Yes, point one, we want to protect our interests, we want to be in this process. Point two is that if, as a result, some amounts of damage are claimed, it is clear that Estonia has suffered very serious reputational damage, and of course Estonia has reason to say that we want our share here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U59	Thank you. I will stop answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U60	Today's next questioner is Toomas Kivimägi. This is about the use of mobile speed cameras by Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question indeed concerns mobile speed cameras. One of the most important issues at the time of handling the corresponding draft was whether mobile speed cameras must have the so-called "Automated Control' mark, as is the case with fixed speed cameras. I believe that all members of the Riigikogu clearly understood that there must be. This was confirmed by the responses of the initiator's representatives both at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and in this Chamber. In addition, I refer to the second reading explanatory memorandum: 'The Ministry of Justice also finds that the measuring point of the mobile speed camera must be marked with a sign before starting the measurement and (I would stress even more. (T.K.) considers that, in its absence, it is not justified to penalise a person for exceeding the limit speed allowed on the basis of the result of the measurement of the mobile speed camera. ' At the meeting of the Economic Commission for Economic Affairs, the question was whether there must be signs on the roads referring to traffic cameras, Veiko Kombusar, on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior, that according to the current rules the corresponding mark must be in the speed camera measurement zone, also in the case of mobile speed cameras. However, this is not clearly confirmed by practice. Sometimes it's a sign, sometimes it's not. My question is whether the members of the Riigikogu have been moved. To be honest, I also voted in favour of this draft with clear knowledge (and only because of the fact that there is also a 'Automatic Control' in front of a mobile speed camera. How are things really, or should they be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U62	Thank you. That's a good point. I am a very busy car user and driver, both in the city and on the highway. Indeed, I have experienced the same thing: sometimes it is, sometimes it is not. I take note of this remark. Tomorrow we have a meeting of the heads of office at the Ministry of the Interior, and I will announce at this meeting to the police leaders that there is such a complaint, and ask them to comply with the law correctly. I'm not gonna dodge, justify or apologize to my office, because my own experience confirms what you're saying. If this is the law and Veiko Kombusar, the Vice Chancellor, confirms this in his reply to your question, then this must be the case and it must be introduced into practice. I guess we have badges here from time to time, and there's been other problems. Sometimes the signs have either gone around the wind or been overturned. At other times, signs have been left standing where the roadwork has ended or the restrictions have expired for other reasons. I guess there's a lot more random and careless around here. But that, of course, is not an excuse. As the question was quite ambiguous in terms of the use of mobile speed cameras, I prepared a very thorough answer. I have to say basically that mobile speed cameras have very clearly justified their existence. I believe and hope that they will also have a clear disciplining effect. There is certainly a need to highlight practical moments here. In some cases, the installation of mobile speed cameras is due to the fact that there are places where statistics and surveillance show that speeding is quite chronic. At the same time, there is no comfort in stopping without endangering fellow road users. Therefore, the practice of mobile speed cameras has also justified itself in this respect. Perhaps to conclude, in the relatively short period of time when mobile cameras have been used, the number of infringements detected has increased several times. I can get the statistics. If there were 21997 fines in the first period, this year we predict that it will already exceed 100000, which means that they will indeed justify themselves and have a very effective complement to patrols and stationary cameras.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U63	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U64	Thank you, Minister, for a very sympathetic and concrete answer. I, too, can confirm that mobile speed cameras are very active. I am quite a car user too, and at least four times a week I drive between Tallinn and Pärnu, and in at least half of the cases I also meet a mobile speed camera. So they've gotten to it anyway, they're there. But the question of whether or not there is a "Automated Control" sign in front of it also goes back to what was the second question in the procedure for this draft: is the purchase of mobile speed cameras intended to bring money to the state budget, or is the aim to calm traffic? If there is no sign, then it is clear that the aim is to make money. If there is a sign, then the noble goal is to calm down traffic. The camera clearly acts as a comfort to traffic if that sign is in front of it. But now the second question, which was also relevant to the procedure of this draft. The reason why we supported it, and I think that most members of the Riigikogu supported it at the time, was that it could save police resources. Indeed, there is a difference between speed measuring the machine, figuratively speaking, and police patrols have to do so. I have learned that this is not quite what it seemed at the time when the bill was being processed. I have almost always noticed on the Tallinn-Pärnu highway that if there is a mobile speed camera, the police are not a blue-white car in the next woods, but still a car with a police mark. There's no police officer inside, of course. There's a regular. Is this some sort of temporary and inevitable solution that a person must be physically present? Is it for security reasons, or is it rational that if you put this camera on for an hour, maybe you don't have to leave the place, you're gonna be there the whole time? But almost always I see that there is actually a person physically in the car and whether he's watching that sign or having another [function]. Is this temporary? Is there really no physical need for a person to be present on this device in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U65	Thank you. My experience again is that I haven't seen any patrols around since I've met a mobile speed camera. To clarify, we have not actually left the stage of acquiring, testing and developing a permanent practice. We've trained a lot of officials now, and there's only about half of them. Most, the rest, are civil officials who have been trained, often watching the cameras through monitors, not at all on the ground. But once again, the practice is not yet fully established. We are working to develop an internship so that it works and functions without the need to put police resources on it all the time. The second question was about fines and the implementation of the state budget. I can assure you that the level of fines in the implementation of the state budget is still rather marginal. I dare not say these amounts now by heart, they are in the millions that receive the State budget as fine money from the Ministry of the Interior, but there are not only traffic fines, there are all kinds of other fines, too. As a whole, if we take the budget of the Ministry of the Interior as well as the volume of the state budget, it is, of course, a marginal amount. So it's kind of an urban legend that the police are being set up to collect the fine. The police won't get anything out of this fine money, and it won't move any hand in terms of the state budget. However, the fine is primarily intended as an educational punishment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U66	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U67	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister! My question is motivated by the question of a good colleague, Toomas Kivimäe, that certainly cameras have a daunting function to calm traffic, whether they are stationary or not. But we still notice that possible police cars are hidden somewhere between the bushes. Can't we just get there at some point so we don't force the police to sit in the bushes? This calming feature and purpose for road users to behave correctly would also be sufficient if this deterrent were in some ways public. There would also be no question whether we want to collect this fine or not. Citizens, too, do not feel very good about driving down the highway and seeing the police sitting between the bushes somewhere. Have you discussed this, or do you not think it is at all an issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U68	I'm gonna start by saying that things aren't very good for us in traffic, are they? As a day-to-day road user, I can see very clearly how I'm constantly passed by, when I'm driving at a perfectly normal speed, let's be honest, a little more than 90 kilometers per hour. As we all know, it is possible to put it on, say, 93 kilometers per hour, no camera can pick it up, nor is it considered a misdemeanor or a violation. I think a lot of people do that. This speed keeps driving past me. I'm not the kind of person who's gonna chase some hooligan and create traffic-dangerous situations. But this is just an example of how things aren't really good with speeding. Now, sitting in the bushes. In that case, perhaps we should also take off the roads without distinguishing marks, which also curs on the roads, in the case of the infringer, turn on their lights and take him down. It's just like sitting in a bush, too. The other way around, they don't sit in the bushes, they drive, but they don't have any distinguishing marks, they're stopping the infringer, they're writing protocol. It's also a question, I don't know, about human rights and hiding. Looking in the bush has been the subject. Police chiefs have said they don't support sitting in the bushes. It is also clear that police officers do not directly control the location of every single patrol. But it has been said, and I agree with the fact that a traffic patrol must itself, with its own car and personally on the road, be in a situation where it does not cause any traffic risk. This means that the car shouldn't be on the road by the tail, so we need to start driving past it. He's supposed to be a little off the road. As we all know and see, mostly a side road is chosen, the end of the agricultural road where the car is parked. We cannot deny that it is often done with a bush in the front. This issue is, this topic remains, and I do not think that it can be resolved once and for all at ministerial level.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U69	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U70	Let's keep going. Today's next questioner is Riina Sikkut, the question is still the rule of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U71	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! Last week, I asked about the principles of governance, such as transparency. This time I am asking about one very important instrument of governance, about the state budget, about the state budget strategy and about the state budget. I don't want no numbers. But no previous government has had such an opportunity to influence the life of society and the economy by the state. Looking at the positive attitude towards loan money and lending, the re-launch fund, structural funds, both the end of this period or the balance and the new period, as well as the tax revenues that so far come surprisingly well, all of this brings together a package that could do something big. The challenge that we face as a society is to deal with the fact that it will be good to live in Estonia in the future, that we have species-rich forests and meadows, that waste is used sensibly, that we have a circular economy, that water is clean, that the air is clean. But this is not what the budget strategy or budget shows at the moment. It is surprising to me that such extraordinary resources will be left unused in order to make an extraordinary turn. Yes, it may have been explained by the spring emergency and the spread of the corona infection. At the same time, the things that concern people very much, such as the reimbursement of sick days from day one, have not reached the budget. What principle has the budget been set up, and which Estonia will this lead us to?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U72	Thank you very much, good questioner. I was pretty freaked out last night, too, I'd say. I had the chance to be on the National Broadcasting 'Actual Camera'. Your interview was just before, and it sounded exactly the same sentence that you just said, "Oh, how many options are there, but nothing much is done." I meant, sorry I said so, good or sweet Riina, knowing if it's really possible, whether you really think that. Now I understand that you really think there's nothing in the budget that's big, nothing good, anything changeable. First of all, you said tax revenues would be surprisingly good. I don't have that kind of information. After all, tax revenues are coming below the forecast we made before the coronavir. We are in a very serious economic crisis, true, it is not as severe as compared to the beginning of April 2020. You told me not to talk about numbers. Well, I'm still talking about numbers, I'm talking about principles. Let's get some stuff. I dare say that this is the biggest contribution to research and development, entrepreneurship and innovation in the history of Estonia. You brought out forests and meadows and sickness benefits when a person gets sick. You put it all together. This is, in my opinion, a very strategic decision that Estonian scientists have wanted, which has always been suggested by TAN over the years: the biggest R &amp; D funding ever and not only next year, but all the country's budget strategy for four years, 1%, in the order of magnitude, if I am not mistaken, 56 million will come up next year. I think it's very fundamental. I think that it is very fundamental that we have the greatest defence investments of all time from the point of view of our country. I would specifically point out the contribution to everything else that is happening at sea, in coastal defence, the new base of the Police and Border Guard Board, the helicopter capability. We know because we have over 2,200 beautiful islands and broads, how important it is from a medical point of view, how fast this helicopter is to get there. You can't make it every time. These three EPA helicopters we're upgrading, improving, bringing in more crews, but we're also creating three more medical helicopters. I also point out that, as a sum of all times, the biggest extraordinary pension increase is, there is also a strong or significant increase in the child coefficient for her parent, if it is at retirement age, a rise in the national pension. I think the biggest investments of all time are being made on our hospital network. It comes from the same things: the re-launch plan, the new MFF and the state budget. I think they're big... With big, sorry, these are very big things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U73	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U74	Thank you. You said very nicely: it was an extraordinary decision to put extra money into research and development. And even better said, not only next year, but all years. The same is true of defence costs, which are linked to an extraordinary increase in pensions. We are not only spending on next year's budget, but also on all subsequent years. At the same time, the revenues we use are one-off and extraordinary. If one-off and extraordinary revenues are to be decided, the same way. That is why I am talking about some kind of turn-around, some sort of new level, because these extraordinary revenues should also be used to make one-off, substantial changes. You being Prime Minister tomorrow is clear. But how can you manage the country in five years' time, when the level of revenue has fallen significantly, there is no use of extraordinary revenue, but the costs have been so high with our decisions today and tomorrow that the question is what to cover them for? How do you make a budget in five years?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U75	Thank you. First of all, a good trade partner, this office that the members of the government have.. I think it has been said several times in advance, and I think that this principle is very right, which means that at any moment in time you have to think about your decisions in the sense of what happens to them in the long term. But you must also be guided by the fact that, as a politician, you are a prime minister or some other minister in the government, your last decision, because political reality can always change in this honourable Chamber of Riigikogu. That's a fact. So if you say Jüri Ratas will be prime minister in five years, I'm sure I won't take it that way. In the meantime, Riigikogu elections, daily Riigikogu working days, weeks. This is decided by the highest authority, which is the Estonian people. Finally, competition takes place here in the Riigikogu. First of all, no crisis will last forever. One minute this crisis will be over. We hope that, as soon as possible, we can return to a normal life, where there is a normal economy, where, we hope, we have made wise decisions, so that growth is stronger, that we are already stimulating growth and not sinking, that we go as little north or north as possible, and that our rise will be quick to keep our employment up. I think there are a lot of these things, say, not tomorrow, but also the day after tomorrow. There are 30 million new technologies in this budget, hydrogen technology, which has been so much talked about, for example, to take advantage of it in public transport, so that we can build up from production to consumption, this whole cycle, this whole chain. I think this is clearly a forward looking thing. We cannot say in any way that this will not change our future. This will certainly change our future if hydrogen technology works, of course. Let's hope it works. Right now, it's all over the world in a phase of experimentation. You say research and development. It is not the case that if we put a million in R &amp; D today, figuratively speaking, it will bring 2 million back next year. No, I won't. Most likely next year will be either a million, maybe a little more or less, expensed inside. But our idea is that in the future, it will add much more to the next generation. This was, I would say, a very difficult budget in the context of an economic crisis, in the context of a health crisis. I looked yesterday, Eesti Pank says we have a near-zero growth, three weeks ago the Ministry of Finance said that based on this, we made a summer forecast that the increase was over 4%. It's completely unpredictable. Make decisions about it, tough decisions... I think that this budget is balanced and it has become an efficient and efficient budget for the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U76	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! The budget is certainly not balanced. After all, this has been proven by your actions before today's budget, because even during the previous governments, which you actually managed at the time of growth, you let the budget down. It is therefore very difficult to believe in the words in this Chamber that, as your Prime Minister and your head of government, you will be able to bring the Estonian budget into a normal balance at times that are more difficult. But my question is still driven by your own statements. You have said that it is a matter of heart that no strawberry stays in the field, and no cow gets milked. Last time in Question Time, you specifically failed to answer my question as to whether the letter from the strawberry growers sent to the Ministry of Rural Affairs asking for nearly 5 million aids is reflected in this budget and they can count on compensation. As you know, as a result of the government's activities, 60-70% of strawberries remained in the field and businesses have incurred debts to suppliers. These bills are expected very seriously. Can you now tell Estonian farmers that the government has taken this step and is prepared to admit its mistake by channeling taxpayers' money to compensate for losses?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U78	Thank you for your question. I start with the fact that it is seriously important for me that the Estonian people do well, but also the sustainability of public finances on the other hand. Whether there is a zero to the line of comparison of costs or revenues, yes, it is important in fiscal terms, but it still has a very strong symbolic value in particular. You said that these budgets have all been negative, unbalanced and so on. I took out one fact, the nominal position of the government budget in 2019, last year. In 2019 the general government budget was in nominal surplus, accounting for EUR 22 million, or 0.1% of GDP, according to the corrected data of Statistics Estonia. It wasn't a deficit, it was a surplus. Compared to Statistics Estonia's preliminary assessment, the fiscal position improved by 0.4% of GDP during Eurostat's audit of primary data. So, point one, this simple or so easy-to-be sentence, 'Everything is in deficit, everything is missing' isn't true. You see, the big Statistical Offices, Eurostat, all say: 2019, the nominal surplus. Now the strawberry growers. I answered you clearly last time. They asked for support from the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the Ministry of Rural Affairs wanted them to specify the data. This communication between this sector and the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Minister is. I said that when this communication is over, I am absolutely certain that the Minister for Rural Affairs will come to the office with his proposals, to the government. I am absolutely sure that he will come at some point when this reporting is in place. It has not yet been settled. So I understand that they will continue to communicate. Where it is, I'm not gonna tell you today. But I am certainly prepared to discuss this issue at government level. I also want us to get out of this economic crisis as soon as possible, so that we can still see the tendency that we are moving towards balance. The same country's budgetary strategy that the government has adopted provides that we are moving towards a balance in the state budget, we are improving our position. But we have to understand that we're in the minus of 6.5% today. Yeah, we're gonna be able to pull it off next year in the order of 1.7 or 1.8 or 1.9 billion, but it's all going to mean some kind of summation. I think that this capacity in the public sector today... I'm sorry! I don't think that makes any sense today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U79	Thank you. I will stop answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U80	Let's keep going. The next questioner is Heidy Purga, the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas about double standards.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U81	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! My question is about a completely unpleasant trend in government agreements. It was only in September that we heard news of the government's decision to channel all top athletes from abroad to Estonia into two weeks' quarantine, which meant that no international competition could be organised in Estonia. At the same time, no other country in the world was known to have imposed such a restriction on athletes at that time. Well, when it was decided, it was decided. But yet there was this news, just like many others, I could say, the other half. The government's decision was not satisfied with you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, who complained to journalists that athletes were caught in the gears, nor with the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas, who described the government's decision as a wild shot at the hip, where one stray bullet has accidentally hit sport. That's very interesting. So who left these athletes between the gears and who let that stray bullet fly? For some reason, such a course of action has characterised recent government activities; the keyword is, for example, 'airlines', where a problem is created without agreement, which is then arranged quickly and heroically. How do you explain this mess?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U82	Thank you. I understand you want me to say to you: this person, this person, this nipitiri, has slowed this process down. What I'm saying is that the government makes its decisions in a collegial way, period one. I do not agree with this criticism, Mrs Purga, when you say that there will be confusion and then it will be resolved. The last six months have been extremely confusing and unclear in the world because of the corona virus. Very big! I would argue that today's government has decided and solved very difficult issues. Yes, there were discussions at that point, very serious infection in Estonia increased. If a joint decision had been made on these athletes months and a half earlier, there would have been no problem, but it meant a new relaxation, a new push. Of course, at the table of the government, one thing is such a sectoral priority, but the government must also look at the whole picture. Yes, it really worried us that any decision we make could increase the risk of an increase in infection. We have some good examples in sport. Let's take this WRC phase, where we saw that when all the confidence measures were taken, wear masks, run tests, you can say that 17000 people were in different places in three days, and we came out of it with basically clean papers. Yeah, one visitor, as far as I know, was COVID positive, but he was wearing a mask that gave the chance that the others weren't infected. We've made that decision today. I will continue to take this view, which I also expressed at the time. The athletes were in the middle of the gears at the time, but today this issue has been resolved. This issue has been resolved for international series and teams, both youth teams and adult teams. True, that requires, I would say, even greater confidence measures in sport than, for example, I don't know, professionally. They are subject to even greater testing requirements not only by the Estonian state, but also by international sub-unions, their umbrella organisations. You are also critical of this aviation matter. We need to see where Estonia was at that point in its level of infection compared to other countries. Other countries were at that point, it must be said, in a worse situation than Estonia, Estonia was in a better situation. Today, this decision has also been made because, unfortunately, our infection rate has gone very high. We need to see what is happening at Riga and Helsinki Airport. In principle, this Estonian decision yesterday, I hope that today the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure will be able to sign it legally, so that it will apply as quickly as possible
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U83	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U84	Thank you very much for your answer. I'll keep asking. It has to be said that this pattern in the media has been completely present: different members of the government deliver a message with very different content. How, then, will the government be able to rely on such decisions in the future if it is clearly impossible to agree on these matters? It's like a reference to each other or to a request, and it's gonna be settled later.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U85	Thank you. I say frankly, you want all 15 people, in this case 15 members of the government, politicians, to sing only with one voice, in one way, there would be no discussion, no discussion, and that would be good. This is also said by our popular wisdom that the best decisions are made in disputes, and the truth is born in disputes. The truth is that there have been very difficult discussions on the government table in the last six months. I think that the government has been in a very strong position when we talk about coronavir: doing everything possible to prevent the spread of the virus. On this wisdom, Mr Laane (he is now out of the hall) also asked what we took as an analysis. I would say that this other important foundation or pillar that we have reached is that everything must be done to prevent this virus and as little as possible paralyse the economy. As a result, local, regional decisions trying to prevent the spread of the virus have started to emerge and are being kept under control. So this is the time, this has been the room where we have to make these decisions. Can't say today that you see, there was a problem, now it's solved why it wasn't solved immediately. At that point, the moment, time, space, situation, characteristics were quite different. We're always comparing ourselves in an international picture. These things change very quickly within this virus. I understand you, Mrs. Purga. Your wish is to say that you see, the government can't decide, and then, when it decides, to say that ow, it was also bad why you argued earlier. For God's sake, I think it's not a bad thing that we discuss, we say our views. All in all, there are three political parties in the government, and they have not grown into one party, and that is not our goal. There are different principles, there are different views. But in my opinion, the strength of politics is that these different positions can be found in common, consensus. I believe that this government has been able to do so both during the Corona virus and today, the honourable Riigikogu, in the budget that is being passed on to you. I think it actually shows the strength of this government coalition: in a very difficult, very critical, difficult health care and economic situation, I still think that there is a very, very strong, very clear and very good budget in front of the Riigikogu today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U86	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! You brought here the example of a song that the entire government, not all members of the government, need to sing in one way. But our choir song is successful because they practice in their own rooms, but when they come out, they sing in one way. Everyone knows their own voice, but these arguments about how to sing have still been held in this room, and it's beautiful to listen to this song. If the government has a cacophonic communication, it is very bad for the people to listen to it, and it can actually lead to a different behaviour than the overall goal of the government could be. But the story that an honorable colleague asked me about reminded me of an old song that Mama, Mama, the boy is here again, who brought me the sugar sandwich and ate it himself. After all, the same communication is exactly the same: we shut down air traffic, then we start fighting, so, who was the man who shut it down, and so on? But my question is actually driven by yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs, attended by representatives of the PBA, the Ministry of the Interior and the Health Board. They were very able to answer the questions about how many Ukrainians were detained, what violations they had, and how they broke the quarantine rules. But they were not able to answer us exactly about what we have read in the public media that there are people moving around Estonia who have infected people at parties and elsewhere. This indicates that it is a double standard; persons on the territory of Estonia are not treated equally on the basis of the risk of corona. Why do you use such double standards?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U88	I think what you put into your question is not double standards, but, I don't know, it's five standards. Mr Kruuse, you know very well that those you are talking about are workers from third countries. You know very well that a joint decision between the Health Board and the PBA was sent out, I might be wrong, but I think there were 9 or 10 of them, that's the order of magnitude. They came to Estonia, I think, with this special flight of 150 or 200, the order of magnitude was this. It was known specifically what companies had signed when they came, which companies, which people these are, who must guarantee what was in the government's decision very clearly: coming here, taking a test, 14 days not going to work, not working. It was all known. Now you are paralleling Estonian nightclubs. First of all, morals are, I understand, you have to understand why the government did not interfere with the work of the PB and Health Board and did not say that you must not expel these nine people if they had violated the regulation that they had to comply with (as a result of the inspection of these agencies). I am sorry, it is totally unacceptable for me that we are going to say in advance to the agencies that can and cannot be expelled. Officials did their job, point one. Point two, now you're saying why these agencies, this PBA and the Health Board, don't know who goes to parties and how that virus spreads. Forgive me, we are talking figuratively about 1.3 million people. Of course, not everyone goes to parties. Yeah, it's definitely, I think, a very big problem today when people go to work with symptoms when they go to party. We see that this leads to business closures, it can lead to school closures, to institutional closures, and very serious problems. I also want to tell you here in the speech chair of the Riigikogu and to ask the people of Estonia who are positive for the COVID-19 that, of course, you must not go out of your home. If you have symptoms, you have been testing and found out that the test has been positive, then I have a very big request: give this information to the Health Board, give this information to the PB. With this, we can control the spread of the virus. Give me some information about who you met, who were close to, where you went to the institutions, where you went to the organisations, who you met. I want to congratulate those people who have spoken it out honestly because then both agencies will immediately know who has been close to them and will be able to tell them: you are at risk of getting sick, please stay at home. One more thing, the same HOIA app on the phone. It is important that we take and upload this HOIA app, and it also provides an opportunity to get information once we have been in contact with the positive COVID-19.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U89	Thank you. That's all we can ask for and answer for Question Time today. Many thanks to all the members of the Riigikogu who asked! Thank you for answering the members of the government. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U90	Honourable colleagues! Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin this afternoon's session, the Wednesday session of the third working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of transferring drafts and enquiries. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U91	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm handing over a bill to amend the Citizenship Act. It's one of those laws that's been waiting a long time for the corona quarantine to pass. This concerns only one aspect of the Citizenship Act. The amendment concerns those who were forced to leave Estonian citizenship in connection with the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. They either gave up or left before June 1940. This basically means Baltic Germans who are Estonian citizens, but also Estonians, Swedes and many others. Estonia's foreign representations considered them all Estonian citizens during the occupation, gave them Estonian passports abroad because their withdrawal was the result of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. But with the application of the Estonian Citizenship Act in 1992, they lost this citizenship because we then set the deadline on 17 June 1940. In theory, this concerns about 20,000 people who would acquire the right to restore Estonian citizenship by adopting this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U92	Thank you. More... Oh, the government too. Mrs. Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U93	Honourable Vice President! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the State Budget Act 2020. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Secondly, the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik, when this bill is being processed. And thirdly, the National Budget Act 2021. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme. All three draft laws have been transmitted to the Riigikogu electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U94	Thank you very much. No further drafts or inquiries will be submitted. These draft laws will be dealt with in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U95	84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U96	We can go to today's agenda. First of all, the improvement of the agenda. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu meeting regarding the transfer of the draft National Budget Act 2021. Pursuant to § 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu has added to the agenda of today's sitting and added the political statement of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas as the first item on the agenda. On the Prime Minister's political statement, we will act as follows. First, of course, the Prime Minister's political statement. Pursuant to § 155 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the Board of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister agreed that no questions will be asked to the rapporteur. But we can open negotiations. The negotiations may be conducted by representatives of the political groups holding speeches. So this is the procedure to deal with this first point. So, Prime Minister, please, the chair is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U97	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Happy people of Estonia! Thank you for this opportunity, Riigikogu! I am pleased to hand over to the Riigikogu the draft state budget for 2021, prepared by the government of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Fatherland Party and the Estonian Central Party. There is a great deal of uncertainty in the economic situation that has arisen in the Coronary crisis, and it is quite difficult to make future forecasts, but the content of the budget owes thanks, above all, to our people and to our good companies. All of them have contributed greatly to the development of the Estonian economy through their work and efforts over the years. Thank you. With next year's budget, we will strive for a structural budget balance based on the economic situation and prospects. Therefore, the state budget for 2021 is based on the normal rules and takes into account the exemptions from the crisis. The general government budget is forecast to be 6.7% nominally next year and in structural terms 6.6% of GDP in deficit. Our goal is that by 2024 the structural deficit of the government sector will fall to the level permitted by the normal rules: nominally to 2.5%, structurally to 1.3% of GDP. Next year, state budget spending will amount to almost EUR 13 billion and revenue will amount to nearly EUR 11 billion. The difference is mainly due to the necessary investments in the recovery of economic growth, which means that expenditure exceeds revenue growth. The volume of government investment will amount to around EUR 1.9 billion next year. The European Union's contribution to the national budget for 2021 is planned at more than EUR 1.4 billion. Tax revenue will increase to EUR 9.3 billion next year, compared to around EUR 9 billion this year. The tax burden will fall to 32.7% of GDP next year, compared to 33.8% this year. The government asks the Riigikogu to allow the State Treasury, if necessary, to make additional commitments of 2.4 billion euros in 2021 with loans and bonds. Thus, the debt burden of the Estonian government may increase to 6.6 billion euros in the next year, or 23.6% of GDP. But even then, the honourable Riigikogu, it will remain the lowest in the European Union. However, the state budget is not just revenue-costs and financial indicators, but, behind every figure, we need to see people and how well we are doing. With this in mind, with the state budget for 2021, we are determined to tackle the corona crisis, both in the economy and in health care, in a smart, secure and affordable way, so that our people's lives can only improve and the economy grow again. Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia and the whole world have changed a lot as a result of the spread and prevention of the Corona virus. On the one hand, we have fought for the lives and health of our people, on the other, changed and had to adapt to the economy and our business. After an exceptionally rapid fall in spring, we saw signs of recovery and also moderate optimism during the summer months. However, when autumn arrived, the infection started to increase again, and the rate of recovery lost momentum. Several countries re-introduced restrictions on the fight against the virus and increased unemployment. The current crisis differs from the previous one in that the outlook for the economy is surrounded by extreme uncertainty and, at the same time, there is a consensus that public intervention is essential. It is clear that we need to live with the virus for at least some time and defend ourselves for it to the extent necessary, of course, on a daily basis. At such a time, the country's contribution to the recovery of confidence is, in my view, crucial to ensuring that we have inclusive, sustainable and fast growth. Honourable ambassadors! So far, Estonia has done better in the crisis than we might have feared. We made efforts as a country and as a society and took the necessary steps. We certainly cannot expect a rapid recovery to pre-crisis levels. Eesti Pank's new forecast estimates that in some sectors of the economy, the major decline may unfortunately be just ahead. They estimate that the new outbreak of the corona virus will push economic recovery further into the future, and next year we will be close to zero growth. Dear listeners, On this basis, I consider it important that we keep a person at the centre. As Prime Minister, I have considered it important to contribute to the incomes of Estonian people, health care, education, security and other important areas that affect us all. In order to minimise the impact of the crisis that hit Estonia and the whole world this year on our living conditions and our economy, we have prepared an additional budget which, according to recent economic forecasts, met its objective of reducing losses and also in halting the economic downturn. Now we have to take the next step to avoid a deterioration in life and help the economy to grow again as quickly as possible. Reasonable lending and, of course, the intelligent use of this money also contribute to this. I would like to thank the Riigikogu for the additional budget that you have decided and adopted. The European Commission recommended that Estonia take the necessary measures in 2020 and 2021 to respond effectively to the pandemic, support the economy and ensure its recovery. In view of economic conditions, we are pursuing a fiscal policy aimed at achieving a sound fiscal position in the medium term and ensuring debt sustainability, while at the same time definitely increasing investment. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft state budget to be transferred reflects the government's comprehensive plan of how we can tackle the corona crisis in a wise, safe and manageable way. We will continue next year with measures that will take us forward in four directions of action. We have to stay healthy. We must help those who need it most. We must speed up smart development and we must continue to invest in the future. I would like to highlight the most important activities planned by these lines of action. A total of more than €1.76 billion is planned for health care in the state budget next year. To control the spread of the coronavirus and learn to live with it, we will further strengthen our ability to detect infections, monitor the spread of infection, treat the affected and improve the resilience of the health care system. We contribute more than 40 million euros to the fight against the corona virus. One example is 177 additional isolation rooms across Estonia. In resolving the health crisis, we will also improve the overall response to crises. We have initiated the creation of an Estonian stock agency, which brings together the supplies of food, medicines, personal protective equipment and essential goods needed to deal with the civilian crisis and is responsible for ensuring that we always have them. In four years, we will contribute a total of EUR 45 million. In order to develop the Estonian health care system and improve the quality of health care, we will start negotiations with the European Commission to invest in hospitals across Estonia. Including EUR 380 million from European Union funds for the design and construction of Tallinn Hospital. In order to provide and modernise better medical care, we complete the construction of Viljandi county hospital and health centre, and the reconstruction and addition of the psychiatric coercion service building begins. Hiiumaa and Järvamaa hospitals receive support for renovating the emergency department, the amounts are also allocated to the Northern Estonia Regional Hospital, Ida-Virumaa Central Hospital and the Tartu University Hospital. To this end, we are applying for almost EUR 65 million from European Union resources and we are allocating EUR 4.5 million from the state budget. EUR 56 million are also planned to be invested in the purchase of three new ambulance helicopters. Social protection is planned to be around 2.46 billion euros in the state budget for 2021. The dignity of our elderly and the livelihood of pensioners remain at the heart of this. Between 2010 and 2019, the average wage increased by almost 78%, while the average old-age pension increased by less than 50%: 46.4%. If we had been able to maintain the average pension/wage ratio over the decade, the average pension would now be nearly 65 euros higher. Although, as a result of the economic forecast, pensions should remain the same for the coming year, or there will be no increase in the indexation, on average we will raise the old-age pension by almost EUR 20. Of this, EUR 16 represents an increase in the base, plus an additional pension supplement for each child. It is also proposed to increase the national pension that has remained the same for years by EUR 30 per month, which would then be EUR 251 and 61 cents. For the sake of economic recovery, we want to speed up the implementation of the prepared public sector projects. Through KredEx, we will continue to contribute public guarantees, loans and export insurance to businesses, as well as risk capital. We will also speed up smart development by contributing to research and development and the green and digital revolution. If we want to live better and better, we need to become smarter and more innovative in all sectors. In the state budget for 2021, R &amp; D funding will increase by 56 million euros and thus reach 1% of GDP, i.e. 282 million euros. In addition, we will ensure that basic funding and research grants continue to grow in order to support the continuity of universities and research institutions and to alleviate the intense competition in applying for grants. We will also increase our support for research into Estonian language, culture and education in order to ensure research and development necessary for the development of Estonian cultural space, language and education. Higher education operating support, we increase by about 5% to contribute to ensuring academic follow-up. In total, we provide more than 170 million euros for targeted and operational support for higher education. The green turn is a direction in which we are also making very important investments. For example, in the coming years, we intend to support the deployment of integrated hydrogen technologies with a total of EUR 30 million. For this purpose, competitive solutions ranging from production to consumption shall be selected. The plan is also to support the investment programme aimed at developing green technologies in order to contribute to the corresponding development of Estonian companies. Estonia's digital capability. In order to increase Estonia's digital capacity, we contribute 232.3 million euros. It contains over EUR 26 million for the development of smart infrastructure. The current crisis highlighted the importance of such digital and innovative solutions to ensure economic activity. Although eGovernment has worked well, further digitisation of businesses would help to increase their resilience and speed up economic recovery, with productivity growth in particular. We will invest an additional 15 million euros to ensure the sustainability of Estonia's digital state. The purpose of the additional money is to modernise outdated systems and infrastructure and to strengthen cyber security requirements. We continue to support all-Estonian access to high-speed internet, a so-called last-mile project. e-residency will also benefit from support, namely 2.5 million, to implement the objectives of the 'E-residency 2.0' action plan and make the programme more customer-friendly, expand services for e-residents and also develop risk-based ex ante and ex post controls. We will also continue to strengthen the areas on which Estonia's future depends directly. In the area of defence costs and internal security, we have had some shortcomings for years, which we will contribute to mitigating with the budget for the coming year. We will build on the level of defence expenditure agreed in the previous country's budget strategy and increase the capacity for coastal defence. It can be said that this is the largest defence investment budget ever. In the field of internal security, the budget for 2021 provides for the establishment of a crisis reserve for police and border guards and the strengthening of maritime and aviation capabilities through a new base and helicopters. In the field of transport infrastructure, we will continue to invest that supports better access and thus the entire Estonian living environment. We have decided to launch additional construction sites that could already be built in 2021, or next year. The important thing is that the Road Administration will continue with the development of four-line roads in three main directions. We also speed up the construction of the Tartu road. In addition to the completed Võõbu-Mäo section, the Estonian Road Administration also starts to work on the four lines of Kärevere-Kardla section, with an estimated total cost of €18 million. In the city of Tartu, we will contribute approximately 10 million euros to the construction of the Riga Street intersection next year. This would significantly reduce road traffic during peak hours. We welcome the fact that local roads will receive almost EUR 20 million for the reconstruction of transit routes and business and 2 million for the improvement of accessibility. Making gravel roads dust-free across Estonia will certainly increase the quality of life in rural areas and an additional 10 million euros will be contributed. Rail Baltic Estonia's share is planned to be 70 million euros in the budget. In addition to railway design and construction, this includes the design and construction of Ülemiste and Pärnu passenger terminals and the design of Muuga and Pärnu freight terminal, Ülemiste depot and Old Port tramline. In the real estate sector, we decided to invest 85 million euros in the next few years, in addition to what was previously decided, and together the state will invest more than 130 million euros in this sector next year. Many places, such as Ruhnu, receive new rescue units. It is also proposed to start building and investing in two state secondary schools with modern learning environments in Tallinn, which means a total of 50 million euros. It is also planned to renovate the Rüütelkonna building on Toompea to the state's representative building, which costs more than 13 million euros in total. We also reconstruct the dormitory of Kase Street at the Estonian National Defence Academy and build a joint complex of the Police and Border Guard Board in Tallinn, with a cost of approximately 10 million. In order to preserve and develop Estonian culture despite the crisis, we will contribute 275 million euros to this area next year. We want to ensure wage support for choirs, folk dance groups and orchestra leaders so that the tradition of singing and dance parties continues. Its prerequisite, in turn, is a viable collective and motivated educated tutor. The draft National Budget Act 2021 provides EUR 3 million in additional funding to support film production. The country will continue to build the indoor halls of sport, which has received many positive responses this year, so that they can be used throughout the year. It is planned to support the establishment of such halls next year with EUR 6 million from the state budget. Tallinn City Theatre has been waiting for the large hall to be completed since the theatre was created. A new hall is now being set up under the current open air stage, with an additional EUR 3 million foreseen in the draft state budget for the coming year. We will also continue to contribute to regional development, so that it is good to live anywhere in Estonia. More than €3 million have been allocated to further vocational training and retraining for adults in vocational education and training institutions and higher education institutions, and in 2021 we are forecasting an increase of about 11000 adults participating in retraining. In 2021, new state secondary schools in Saaremaa and Tabasalu will start their studies. The study building of Paide state gymnasium is completed and the preparation for the construction of two state gymnasiums begins. Youth recreational education remains important and we support municipalities with EUR 15 million in funding for recreational activities. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I conclude by saying that the government, when drawing up the budget, has meant that the state is within our reach. Next year, we will save EUR 10 million, or 1.7%, on the economic costs of public authorities. It is directed to IT developments that help to keep Estonia on the e-state level and provide better and better-quality e-services. Investment in information technology will certainly make it easier for people to use their workforce. Our aim is to do more effectively with less money. I certainly warmly thank the officials of the Ministry of Finance and the hard workers and servants of all other ministries who have contributed to the completion of this draft state budget, as well as the State Chancellery. I would also like to congratulate both coalition partners sincerely before you, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Party of the Fatherland, as well as my party associates from the Centre Party. I thank all other parties here in the Riigikogu for their good ideas and important input: the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party. I believe that many of your good, important and important ideas have been reflected in the state budget and the state budget strategy for next year. Thank you to all members of the Riigikogu, Eesti Pank, the private sector and, of course, civil society organisations! The state budget for 2021 will be completed thanks to all the parties mentioned. We have, of course, a great responsibility and a role, because our budgetary decisions depend on the performance of our people, our country, our economy, not on the normal situation, but on the corona crisis, and I very much hope that it will follow as soon as possible. I wish you, the honourable Riigikogu and, above all, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, a good procedure and constructive debate on the state budget. Thank you and your strength to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U98	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Now we have a chance to make speeches. Representatives of the political groups, please! First Siim Pohlak on behalf of Estonian Conservative People's Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, If I were to sum up this budget in two words, I would simply say that this budget prefers the Estonian or that we prefer the Estonian. The people of Estonia have reason to be very happy with the budget for next year. This is particularly the case with the global corona apandemia. We recall that, more than ten years ago, during the previous economic crisis, the Reform Party-led government felt that the crisis must be treated with cuts and tax increases. The result was the deepest recession in Europe and nearly 100,000 emigrants. We are pleased that today's government did not give in to many of the demands to cut back, which would have further aggravated the crisis caused by the corona virus. Both this year's additional budget and next year's budget will give the economy a boost, which will ultimately be won by every person in Estonia. This is the central budget of the people of Estonia and Estonia. Like I said, we prefer the Estonian. And what's to rejoice about: an extraordinary pension rise. The average increase in old-age pensions is over 20 euros next year. The average old-age pension will reach 544 euros next year. EKRE has always wanted to make pensions more dependent on the number of children to stimulate population growth, and this will be possible next year. The supplementary pension supplement for each child will rise from the current one-year-rate level to 1.5. It is positive that the government is going ahead vigorously with the construction of four-line roads and the improvement of the quality of local roads, which will improve the quality of life in rural areas. Against the background of the Coronary crisis, it is important to know that the country will upgrade its entire hospital network for more than half a billion euros, which will give new quality to our medicine. And it is important to note that most of the newer hospitals are in rural areas, which is also important in the regional policy dimension. It is important to us, as national conservationists, that more money is put into teaching the Estonian language in kindergartens and schools than ever in the budget for the new year. If only slogans about a common Estonian-language education continue to speak about the opposition, the present coalition will do the real job so that all children in our country can speak Estonian well. EKRE has worked hard and fought battles to improve our national defence and security. In the next two years, we will be able to close one of the most dangerous capacity gaps and create full coastal defence capabilities: mines, anti-ship missiles, mine launching grounds. Estonia receives three medical helicopters, a new large border guard ship. The border will also continue to be built and we will move on with the creation of an internal defence reserve. We consider it very important that money was found in the crisis budget for innovation, which has the potential to make our living environment cleaner. I am thinking here of serious investments in the introduction of hydrogen fuel. It is the fuel of the future and Estonia has great potential in terms of both hydrogen use and production. In addition, it is notable that Estonia will reach its target of 1% of GDP in funding science with the budget for the new year. The opposition says that the Estonian state is taking too much debt to keep the economy going. The debt burden of Estonian government is increasing, but it will remain the lowest in the European Union in 2021, I stress: the lowest. All countries are currently spending on fighting the corona crisis and reviving their economies. Reinvigorating the loan economy is not a way of living beyond our means, but a reasonable way of ensuring that, as a result of the current crisis, 100,000 people will not leave Estonia again abroad. This budget has a local rather than globalist face, prefers Estonian people, Estonian entrepreneurs, Estonian pensioners, Estonian economy and Estonian culture. The aim is to emerge strong from the current crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U100	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I think I am not mistaken when I say that this was the most difficult state budget that the Centre Party has put together with its partners over the last few years, particularly because of the precarious situation caused by the spread of the Corona virus. However, the end result gives cause for satisfaction, as all areas received the necessary attention. I would like to focus my speech on health and medical matters. Before that, however, a very important message is indeed for pensioners who are facing an extraordinary pension rise: more than 20 euros. This is the main electoral promise of the Centre Party and, despite the record pension increase last year and the interim economic crisis, it is also important to move forward in the increase in pensions. The situation affected the confidence of many pensioners. Clearly, older people living in a high-risk group need greater support from the state, and one option is higher pensions. While one of the objectives of the country's fiscal strategy is to revive the economy, money will certainly be recycled through pensions. Let it be said that, from 1 April, the average old-age pension will rise to more than EUR 548. Here is an overview of the priorities of the state budget in the area of health. The current crisis differs from the past in that the outlook for the economy is surrounded by extreme uncertainty. At the same time, there is almost a consensus that state intervention is essential. If a austerity policy was chosen during the previous economic crisis, this time the government led by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will do the opposite, i.e. contribute to investments that help Estonian companies and people to maintain the standard of living as much as possible. I am pleased that next year the foundation will be set for the establishment of the Tallinn Hospital. The state budget has foreseen EUR 30 million for the project. I believe that I am not exaggerating when I say that this is a century project in the area of health. The total cost of a unique medical campus is estimated to be 380 million euros for the country, and when it is completed, our good medical staff will receive the best possible treatment in the world-class working conditions and patients. In addition to the construction of Tallinn Hospital, we also pay attention to county hospitals. This is necessary to improve health capacity in relation to crises. A new Viljandi county hospital, health centre and a psychiatric centre will be built to provide and modernise better medical care. The emergency care departments also receive support in Hiiumaa and Järvamaa hospitals, as well as the Northern Estonia Regional Hospital, Ida-Virumaa Central Hospital and the University of Tartu Hospital. To improve access to health services and reduce treatment queues, 143 million euros will be allocated to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. Here again, there is reason to recall the previous economic crisis, where the sickness fund received two negative budgets. The current government, however, adds 143 million to the health insurance fund. It's important to notice that. The Corona virus has not disappeared from us, and until an effective vaccine has been developed, we need to learn how to live and deal with COVID-19 disease. In order for us to be able to maintain the normal way of living as possible, the COVID-19 is allocated from the state budget to deal with the problems associated with the disease and to prevent the spread of the virus and a total of more than EUR 40 million is requested from European Union funds. This includes testing the population, improving the preparedness of hospitals, creating new isolation rooms, providing the necessary health care personnel, providing advice on infection in general and special care institutions, strengthening the health authority, improving the care service, monitoring the situation and scientific cooperation. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U102	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U103	It also includes increasing the supply of medicines and organising widespread preparedness for both health emergencies and national defence. The Ministry of Social Affairs has allocated resources to sectoral research and development activities, funding the professional year of psychologists and strengthening mental health, maintaining a gene storage facility and maintaining genetic samples, developing information and communication technologies. I consider it very important that we ensure the availability of aid instruments, which has been a major problem for a long time. Yes, the list was long, but I wanted to emphasise that we are contributing to the health sector in a broad-based way by the various sectors that receive attention. I believe that many agree with the statement that the Estonian health sector needs an additional injection of money. The Nordic countries spend more on the sector. But next year's budget is at least a step in the right direction. Let us mention, for example, investments in hospitals and the prevention and prevention of the spread of COVID-19 disease. In conclusion, I would like to say that the National Budget Project 2021 combines well human-centred healthcare funding and economic recovery investments. These steps will increase the quality of life for all of us and increase the number of healthy life years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U104	Thank you. Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U105	Thank you. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U106	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U107	The focus of the national budget for 2021 should be a strategic view and the use of the crisis for reforms. This budget largely determines how the Estonian economy and society will recover from the corona crisis, how successful Estonia is compared to its competitors, and whether we will pass on a growing debt burden to the next generations or a flexible and innovative economy and an effective state state that values the well-being of citizens and society now and in the future. Unfortunately, this is not the budget that has been presented to us today. Today, on the floor, the Prime Minister focused mainly on listing the costs that the government is making. A list of expenditures is not a budget. The government spends it like there's no tomorrow. Since cost savings are planned only after the next elections, for the next government, it seems that the principle of 'after us come or the Flood' has been followed. The state does not have to operate for just one year, the state has to operate for longer, it has to operate in a sustainable way. In a euphoric party mood, spending money today may seem nice one night, but hangover is inevitable. The revenue of the state is 11 billion, while the cost is 13 billion. The actual one-year deficit is two billion, or 15.3% of gross domestic product. The government boasts of large-scale borrowing. For one person in Estonia, from infant to rauga, the loan burden will increase by 5000 euros in the following year alone. But what's in it for us? Where are the investments and social development jumps? Where are the reforms that make the country more effective? As of today, the government did not identify any long-term investment or reform that would develop Estonia's economy and competitiveness. Only operating costs that hamper private sector development and leave less money in priority areas will be increased. In his speech, the Prime Minister deliberately confuses the country's budget strategy, i.e. the activities planned for four years and the state budget for the coming year. The Tallinn Hospital, also called the biggest investment, is only a dream written on the sand, because the money is planned to be taken from euro amounts and the hospital has not even been designed. It's all a scam. The Prime Minister says that the budget needs to be reduced to such a huge disadvantage, because it is necessary to get out of the crisis quickly. However, according to the information published by Statistics Estonia, tax receipts have only decreased by 3.2%. That doesn't justify a deficit of 15.3%. The Prime Minister says that with this budget, we will overcome the corona crisis. However, we do not see any real exit measures in this budget. Moreover, when we look at the government's current actions or omissions in the context of the corona crisis, it becomes even more hollow. Economics and entrepreneurship must be supported intelligently and effectively. Access to public support measures must depend only on agreed rules and not on how company owners get along with managers. This approach is not suitable for a democratic state. What do we think should be done with this budget? Firstly, science must enter the economy. Estonia is currently the most recent in the European Union in terms of the proportion of companies that bring new innovative products or services to the market. The crisis offers both money and the opportunity to act decisively in this area. The creation of a centre for applied research and thereby channelling funds into various development activities would help motivate companies to engage more actively in product development. Secondly, treatment queues and maintenance loads should be reduced. Health and social care in Estonia continues to be too much fun for those in need. Investing in smarter health and social IT solutions is therefore needed. We certainly need a quality leap in reducing the maintenance burden on people. As a result of restructuring, health care and social services need to be more convenient for people. Thirdly, we need to make e-services more economy-friendly for the country. We should invest in improving the availability of various IT support services in e-Estonia, as well as of fixed internet access. The high-speed internet connection should be built in every place in Estonia. Fourthly, we must help the tourism and services sectors. A funding programme should be set up to support the digitalisation of the service and tourism sectors and thereby reduce the share of labour in these sectors of the economy. Fifthly, climate policy is actually a cookie for our competitiveness. In the future, companies that are able to meet ever more stringent environmental requirements will be more successful without doubt. Our social well-being depends on how quickly and at low cost our companies can adapt to Europe's climate goals. Sixth, Ida-Viru County needs a new economic model. The declining and ageing population, the environmental requirements tightening up with climate policy will have a dramatic and long-term impact on Ida-Virumaa. Now that the oil shale industry is inevitably shrinking, investment must be made to diversify the economy of Ida-Viru County and investments must be attracted here to help implement this change at a lower socio-economic cost. We will certainly make our proposals to change the budget and ask that the proposals of Eesti Pank and the Board of Budgets be taken into account in order to curb this insane spending. At the same time, we doubt that they will be taken into account, because it is only the wisdom of Martin Helme and the wisdom of the government to take down all other opinions. However, we have not given up hope. We therefore hope that our proposals will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U108	More talk request... Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry for the delay. Today we have received the National Budget Plan 2021. Indeed, there is an extraordinary time, a corona period, and an extraordinary budget. The volume of the new state budget is impressive, as has already been pointed out several times. The cost of the Estonian state will be nearly 2.4 billion more than this year. We all know that this powerful growth comes from large-scale borrowing and also from euro money. The rapidly increasing debt burden of our country requires especially great responsibility, smart and forward-looking decisions from both the government and the Riigikogu when making decisions. I'm gonna start by praising the government, which I haven't been able to do in a long time. I am pleased to congratulate the government for the fact that they have finally been able to positively surprise and turn their face towards Estonian science and scientists. A significant increase in research amounts is a very commendable act, as is finding additional funding for higher education. The question of where exactly is this money actually being put in these areas. At the same time, the target of at least 1% of GDP for R &amp; D needs to be met in the coming years, when the economy, together with GDP, is expected to grow rapidly. I hope that the government coalition will also support the draft proposed by the Socialists, which states that, in funding science, society will be assured that the disgraceful withdrawal of promises that happened last year will no longer be repeated in the future. I also congratulate the government on the planned pension increase. The extraordinary pension increase in April next year, although some feel that it is scarce, will clearly help people of dignified age. It is a pity, of course, that there was no increase in the tax-free rate for pensions and that, for more and more, this part of the pension is chewing up. In the new year, benefits for the unemployed and those with partial work capacity will also increase. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Government for listening to the proposals made by the Socialists in the above-mentioned matters quite nicely. But, as has already been said, the size of the budget is impressive. The additional billions gave the government more leeway and freedom than ever before. Yet, ministers forgot themselves within the walls of Stenbock's house and looked past the most important thing in the distribution of money. Like the rest of the world, the biggest challenge facing Estonian society today is the corona virus. The national budget compilers of 2021 have pretended as if the second wave of the virus was not in hand or coming. But you should be ready for the third, maybe the fourth, maybe the fifth wave. Unfortunately, the budget does not provide solutions to combat the pandemic effectively now and immediately and to protect our people's health. Investing in medical infrastructure and new wards is a very positive thing, but a much longer one. New hospital rooms are, of course, necessary, but they won't be completed in the coming weeks, and first of all, we should do everything we can to prevent this virus from taking us to the hospital. It is clear that in order to limit the spread of the corona virus, it is extremely important that people do not go to work sick. However, the budget does not find a cent to compensate for the first days of sickness. In response to repeated questions on this subject, the Prime Minister talks completely round. To prevent infected people from working sick and spreading the disease, the number of sick days should be more generously compensated, starting on the first day. I'll make it clear to the skeptics just in case. If high-paid people and those who have the opportunity to work at their home office are able to stay home with less serious symptoms and follow the course of the illness, it often means an insurmountable hole in the family's budget. Thus, a person takes the risk and goes to work with a cold, goes to work with a hard throat so that he does not lose his salary and, for example, gets into trouble with loan payments. The Social Democrats here fully agree with the demand of trade unions: the first three sick days must be reimbursed. I quote the declaration of the Confederation of Trade Unions: 'Covering the priority is a key prerequisite for maintaining jobs, and therefore the risk of workers coming to work with symptoms must be reduced to the maximum. ' And I believe in trade unions far more than the ministers of our government in this matter. I really don't know what our government is thinking. Trade unions, by the way, have consistently talked about two other important things to control the spread of the virus: the availability of masks and clear codes of conduct for companies in the event of an increase in cases of infection. We are deep in the second wave, and there is nothing surprising about it, but there is no tendency or obsession with the government on these issues either. It would be elementary for everyone who wants and needs it to have masks at the expense of the state. And that should have been done yesterday. But even next year's budget doesn't seem to have a spot like this at least on the first look. According to Eesti Pank's fresh opinion, it is important that fiscal policy is flexible and less uncertain. The central bank seems to be more concerned about rising unemployment and people made redundant than the government. As we know, the sectors in which lower wages are earned are currently at greater risk. Eesti Pank has just found that the government should pay more attention to ensuring that the state's safety net is sufficient for people who have lost their jobs. I hope, however, that it will also be possible to look carefully at this budget for something that will provide additional protection for the people most affected by the crisis and reduce the social injustice that tens of thousands of people feel on their own. Ladies and gentlemen, I come back to the fact that the government that has put together the budget has an unprecedented amount of money at its disposal: tax revenue, credit billions, euro subsidies with the resources of the recovery fund. This would provide an opportunity to do something really good and pivotal for the sake of Estonian development and the people of Estonia, to give the economy a new move, to change the structure of the economy. But an ambitious, forward-looking big thing, once again, at least at first glance, we do not find this budget. With a small chunk, money is given to different areas here and there: we build a little more roads, we pour more concrete than before. These things are broadly against the budget. In the announced green turn, there seems to be no specificity, for example, the possibility of insulation and energy-saving construction across Estonia of almost all apartment buildings, public buildings, why not also production buildings and private houses, or take a decisive step in order to ensure that Estonia as a whole is connected to the new quality. The last human development report highlighted that regional inequality in Estonia continues to worsen. Strong steps are needed here to stop this sad process, for example, to make Estonia a land of fast connections. One scenario could be that the regions are connected to high-speed and environmentally friendly train traffic. The coverage of Estonia with high-speed Internet is also progressing too slowly. There is also a need to move forward more forcefully here. And why not develop eco-congregations Estonia with the support of the state budget, which could mean a leap of development for some rural areas. That would be Estonia's business, ladies and gentlemen of the Isamaa Group. The same Human Development Report also indicated that the rules for the distribution of euro money have contributed to the increase of regional disparities. Large and wealthy municipalities, led by Tallinn and Tartu, are raking up the cream of the euro grants, more money and the ability to write euro projects are concentrated in the attraction centres. The new year will start a new budget period for the European Union, before which there will be an opportunity to change the system of grant sharing. I would like to express my hope here that the government will understand its importance. Reducing regional divisions is a key issue for Estonia. Today, we know the general outlines of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U110	Honourable performer! Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U111	I very much hope that the virus crisis will however come to an end and that we can return to an open world as soon as possible and do so in such a way that our economy is given the opportunity to develop, saving our environment. Because we don't have another planet. We need to overcome the corona by common power and not forget other developments that a changing world requires from us to succeed and to sustain life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U112	And Helir-Valdor Seeder on behalf of the Fatherland Party. Please! Five plus three equals eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U113	Ladies and gentlemen, The next year's state budget has been handed over to the Riigikogu and for this great recognition to the government that a responsible crisis budget has been put together in a very difficult and vague situation. The situation is complicated and vague because only six months ago Eesti Pank forecasted an economic growth of 8.5% by next year. The Ministry of Finance, on the basis of whose plan the state budget was drawn up, planned 4.5% economic growth one month ago, while the forecast published by Eesti Pank in recent days was only 0.5% economic growth. But the government and the Riigikogu that we adopt the budget cannot be limited to forecasts, we actually have to adopt the state budget, and the state budget according to which it will be possible to live in Estonia next year. The overall tax burden in next year's budget will decrease, which is certainly good news for all Estonian citizens and other residents. The loan and the loan burden in the current situation.. do not have to be panicked about it. What is much more important is why and how usefully this borrowed loan is being used. However, I welcome the fact that the loan burden planned during the preparation of the state budget in the country's budget strategy by 2024 will be planned at a lower rate than the initial one with which the Ministry of Finance came out. And the same is true of the government deficit, which, according to the national budget strategy in 2024, should be 2.5% instead of 3.1% initially proposed. In fact, this means that a very clear target has been set before the government for the next year and for the following years: the country must become more effective and sustainable. Very much has been said that people live on loans and that the loan money is spent on running costs. In fact, that is not the case. Next year's state budget will have 1.9 billion investments, plus measures to support entrepreneurship, and a loan of EUR 2 billion, all of which will be spent specifically on investments and one-off expenditure to boost entrepreneurship and competitiveness. The same applies to pensions: about 2 billion will receive social security contributions next year to cover the payment of old-age pensions together with the planned increase in pensions. The budget for next year is not just a budget for expenditure, but a budget for next year. Unlike many previous budgets, which have been adopted here during the different governments at a much easier time, where there has been an opportunity to simply add spending to the various areas, next year's budget is a budget with clear priorities. And I am pleased that these priorities also show up against the features of the Fatherland. First of all, economic recovery and competitiveness through various measures through KredEx, Enterprise Development Foundation and Rural Promotion Foundation are designed to boost the competitiveness of Estonian companies and boost the economy. Secondly, combating the effects of the health crisis. The additional state budget financing of the Health Insurance Fund, the strengthening of the health care system at all, with additional amounts, the increase in resources, etc., is extremely important. This list can be continued and this list has already been highlighted here by colleagues. Thirdly, increasing funding for R &amp; D is a goal that has existed during different coalitions but has not been met. In the next year's budget and throughout the period of the country's budgetary strategy, it is planned to keep R &amp; D expenditure at 1% of GDP. Next year, this will mean an additional €56 million for R &amp; D funding. In addition, additional funding for higher education is foreseen under the higher education contracts concluded. Defense. I am very pleased that national defence spending was not cut but maintained at a stable level of funding, again throughout the entire budgetary strategy of the country. EUR 645 million will be allocated next year and EUR 2022 will be a one-off additional investment to improve capacity. Throughout the period, there is also the cost of receiving allies, as well as the defence investment programme, as planned by the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence. Retirement. There has been a great deal of talk about this, but in Isamaa, it is particularly good that the so-called maternity pension component is rising, that is to say, the part that is determined for raising children. Its share in pensions will increase in the future. If an additional 50 million is needed to pay out all old-age pensions in the following year due to an increase in pension, the share of the maternity pension is estimated to be EUR 10 million. And, of course, ensuring the continuity of culture. The new initiative is to reward participants in the process of singing and dance, to provide additional funding for national sciences, which are intended for scientific research into Estonian language, history and culture. It's absolutely necessary. Estonian language education in kindergartens and schools, where part of the training takes place in Russian. The channelling of additional financial resources there has been carried out with the aim of moving to a single Estonian-language education. Additional support for the domestic film industry. Sport funding: we will continue to build internal halls in different counties in order to reach the goal of modern sports opportunities in each county. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a well-thought-out budget with priorities, which will certainly be better in the Riigikogu. I call on all my colleagues, both from the coalition and from the opposition, to work constructively on this budget and to make it even better. The coalition is ready to cooperate. And as the Social Democrats have already acknowledged, much of their proposals have been taken into account, the coalition has read their thoughts. Well, it's probably the same with the Reform Party. But if you have good and constructive proposals, it is certainly possible to take them into account during the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U114	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister's political statement is closed; the negotiations are also closed. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Thank you very much to the representatives of the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U115	We're moving on to the agenda. The second item is the draft law amending the Spatial Data Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act, number 196. That's the third reading. The representatives of the political groups will be able to make speeches. There is no wish to make speeches, so I consider the negotiations to be concluded. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 196 on the draft. First call sign. Honourable colleagues, Honourable Riigikogu, will vote in the final vote on Bill No 196 of the Spatial Data Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and Amendment of the Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U116	78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this draft, no one opposed, no abstentions. The draft has therefore been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U117	The next item is the draft law amending the Labour Dispute Resolution Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, number 214. Let's start reading it first, and I'm gonna ask Social Minister Tanel Kiige to wait here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U118	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I present to you a draft law aimed at amending the Labour Dispute Resolution Act, which regulates the work of labour dispute committees. The Labour Dispute Committee is an extra-judicial working dispute resolution body located at the Labour Inspectorate, where eight heads of labour dispute committees resolve labour disputes mainly in four cities, Jõhvi, Pärnu, Tartu and Tallinn, and, if necessary, in other county centres. In 2019, a total of 3000 circa labour disputes were settled in the Labour Dispute Committee, while around 300 cases were dealt with in court. The proportion of disputes settled by the Labour Dispute Committee has gradually increased, already covering 91% of disputes that would otherwise be settled by the courts. For example, as I pointed out last year, in 2019 a total of 310 disputes were resolved at land courts and 3000 at the Labour Dispute Committee. In the Committee on Labour Disputes, disputes between the employee and the employer are settled in two main ways: either by the chairman of the Labour Disputes Committee in a written procedure alone or at an oral session in a formation of three members, comprising, in addition to the chairman of the Labour Disputes Committee, two co-members. The co-chairs shall be representatives appointed by the social partners participating in the Labour Dispute Committee. Their main aim is, like the judges of the people, to see the labour dispute in the resolution of labour disputes, in particular from a human and not a legal point of view, while taking into account the inevitable specific nature of the positions of workers and employers when it is essential for the resolution. The Labour Dispute Commission lists ca 200 co-workers. In 2019, 2300 disputes, i.e. about 77% of labour disputes, were settled with the co-workers. With the main amendment proposed by the specific draft, we would like to increase the remuneration paid to the co-chairs and link the hourly fee paid to the co-chairs for one hour at the session to the minimum rate of EUR 3.48 this year. Under current law, the remuneration to be paid to the co-worker of the Labour Dispute Committee is calculated on the basis of a complex formula, resulting in a remuneration of EUR 3.07 per hour in 2020, for example, this year. The hourly fee paid to the co-worker has therefore been lower than the minimum hourly rate since 2017. Co-chairing is voluntary and low remuneration clearly reduces the willingness of employees and employers to contribute to the work of the Labour Dispute Committee in solving labour disputes and also hampers effective and rapid resolution of labour disputes within a three-member group. As a second amendment, we would also like to pay a fee for the preparation of the sitting. For one sitting, the period of preparation shall be half an hour, which shall be taken into account for the operation of the labour dispute in the Labour Inspectorate's information system and for the other for the preparation of the hearing. However, the current law does not provide for any remuneration for the preparation. The Labour Dispute Resolution Act entered into force as a result of the reform of the Labour Dispute Committee's activities in 2018 and other minor bottlenecks that need to be removed have been identified during the implementation period of almost three years. For example, we want to allow the sitting to be held by means of a procedural conference, or video bridge. The organisation of a meeting with the help of the video bridge will allow the Labour Dispute Committee to continue its work, for example, in the circumstances caused by the spread of the COVID-19 and make dispute resolution more accessible in different areas of Estonia even without excessive time and driving costs. However, the current law does not allow the use of the video bridge. In addition, we provide for the Estonian language as a language of procedure and the possibility, if necessary with the consent of all parties, to participate in the hearing in another language. In the current law, there is a specific obligation under the language law that is not complied with to provide for the use of the language of the pre-trial procedure. We also want to allow the Labour Dispute Committee to turn to a joint application. In the current law, the possibility of merging statements made against the same employee or employer into a single procedure is only possible if the dispute is brought into the proceedings and there is no possibility of submitting a single joint application in several disputes of the same nature. It's a kind of illogical order. In addition, we wish to extend the scope in disputes involving foreign employers by allowing the Labour Dispute Committee to check the data of a foreign employer from the register of taxable persons in addition to the business register. Under current law, the Labour Dispute Committee can only identify foreign employers from the business register, but in practice not all foreign employers operating in Estonia are always registered in the business register. The cost of the law is low. As a result of the amendment, the remuneration paid to fellow Members, as I have pointed out, is linked to the minimum wage, which is somewhat higher than the remuneration currently paid. But this need for extra money is not considerable. Additional resources have been taken into account in the basic budget of the Labour Inspectorate and the corresponding expenditure is planned in the national budget strategy 2021 to 2024. The solution to the use of the video bridge has been essentially developed by the Labour Inspectorate today and possible additional costs for obtaining the hardware needed for the procedural conference will be covered by the Labour Inspectorate's budget, which does not involve an additional request for money at the moment. Thank you for your attention and I am happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U119	Thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U120	Thank you! Minister, thank you for the overview you gave in the Committee on Social Affairs. I'd like to correct two things in your introduction, though. I am quite convinced that those people who were paid less before did their job with a great deal of commitment and certainly did not hinder their work, but the change you are now planning to introduce with the Ministry is correct. Second thing, the video bridge thing. No one thought before 2020 when it hit us in the spring, or before the end of 2019 that we would need such a service. That's also very right. Now the question. Given that there is also a requirement for the Estonian language, which is very well founded and correct, how are these costs covered? If, for example, people in Ida-Virumaa need this help, and there is certainly also a need for translation assistance, how is it meant to be: work is done in Estonian, but people do not master it enough, yet they have problems with which they want to turn to the Labour Dispute Committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U121	Thank you for your question. Yes, the changes really are, I think that improving the law is a normal process. Life changes, needs change. We have moved to the solution of the video bridge, and indeed, the COVID crisis has brought about certain peculiarities in the work processes, both in the Riigikogu and in the government as well as more broadly. This is not a reproach or criticism of an earlier law. As far as the use of the language is concerned, as I have pointed out, it has been specifically defined that the work will take place in Estonian, but with the consent of all parties and, if necessary, you can participate in another language, i.e. this possibility is guaranteed. Of course, a particular labour dispute committee, in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate, will have to find a solution to how the translation will be organised.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U122	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U123	Thank you, Mr President. I have such a matter of general interest for the Minister, which I did not find in this explanatory memorandum. First of all, what are the main problems that are being referred to the Labour Dispute Committee? Is there any way to make a choice about these problems? And secondly, what are the trends: is the number of labour disputes increasing or decreasing? If that's possible, I'll be very happy if you answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U124	Thank you very much for your question. I'm going to start with this other side, I have a table in front of me right now, it's easy to say. For example, in 2017, the Labour Dispute Committee solved 2500 labour disputes, in 2018 2700 and in 2019 3000. We see a clear upward trend, more 500 disputes in two years, i.e. 20%. At the same time, the proportion of cases resolved by the Labour Dispute Committee has also increased. As for the future trend, 2020 will, of course, be a different year in statistics. It is possible that some disputes, possibly even fewer meetings were held in the face of the COVID-19 crisis. So no too big conclusions can be drawn about what this year's number is going to be. As far as the main issues of disputes are concerned, they relate in particular to wage issues, but also to working conditions. Most disputes, as confirmed by the Ministry, have indeed been linked to unpaid wages: for any reason, in any circumstances, the employee has found that the employer has unfairly failed to pay anything. There is also a considerable proportion of disputes concerning the termination of the contract, i.e. whether a particular contract of employment has been fairly and legally terminated or not. That is where the Labour Dispute Committee has to make its own assessment, and in such cases it is good to involve both the employer and the trade union, which consider it from a different perspective. I certainly agree with what Helmen Hunt said. I don't doubt the motivation of these people to contribute to these disputes. This is also the direct interest of the social partners themselves. But I think it is fair that we pay it at least for the minimum wage, because these disputes can often be difficult and we want people to devote themselves in every way to this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U125	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U126	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I would like to clarify the wording on the side. It is said here that if the party does not speak Estonian or does not have a representative who speaks the Estonian language in the proceedings, and if he needs the support of a sign language interpreter, he must find an interpreter for the hearing of the Labour Dispute Committee. If, for good reason, the party fails to find an interpreter or interpreter to attend the hearing, the Labour Dispute Committee may postpone the settlement of the dispute. And here's the question about this 'good reason'. How do you understand that? If an interpreter cannot be found for good reason, can the hearing be postponed, but if the interpreter cannot be found simply, there must be a valid reason? And what is meant by the fact that if an interpreter is not able to attend the hearing, does there have to be a valid reason, or does it affect the postponement in any way? Somehow it's complicated, that compelling argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U127	Thank you for your question. The question is, above all, that there should not be a situation in which the sitting is postponed or lightly changed on the pretext of 'other grounds'. The logic is that, if there is an agreed meeting of the Labour Dispute Committee, a solution to the issue, all parties would make an effort to ensure that it actually takes place. And the particular party who needs an interpreter really needs to get an interpreter. But if there is a really good reason, no, let's say that a COVID-19 sufferer or something like that, an obvious specific interpreter couldn't come, then there is a right to postpone the hearing. If there is a desire to examine in more detail how much this will be done in the case of labour dispute committees, both the problem of using an interpreter and the clause on the valid reason, then, of course, it is possible to ask for the current data. Today, it is not so precisely regulated by law, but these problems and these questions are actually real. It is certainly possible to obtain more detailed feedback from the Labour Inspectorate. You can also always send me a written question, I can send you an answer that comes through the heads of labour dispute committees, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U128	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. The second rapporteur is Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 21 September, the Social Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Labour Dispute Resolution Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. And as always at the first meeting, the Minister gave an overview of the whole draft. I am not going to repeat that here, because the Minister has been talking for quite a long time and thoroughly. The Commission's discussion was about the same issues that have been going through here. In addition to this draft in particular, the Ministry had sent another package of amendments, which had not been specifically dealt with in this draft, but the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu decided in its discussion that this amendment package would not be included here at the moment. I think that all this subject matter will be dealt with in relation to the other drafts we have been given to the proceedings. This was precisely about pensions and pension policies. I think we can resolve these issues within the framework of the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act. But let's go to what the Commission decided. The committee decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, 30 September, to appoint Tõnis Mölder as rapporteur, Chairman of the committee, to propose that the first reading be terminated and ten working days set by the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U130	Thank you very much. The members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I can't see what I want, so I'm gonna consider the negotiations to be over. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 214. No other proposals have been received. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 14 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U131	Let's move on to the agenda. The fourth item is the draft law supplementing section 28 of the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 217. Let's start reading it first. I'd like the Secretary of the Interior Mart Helme to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U132	Honourable Riigikogu! I am before you, as the President-in-Office has already said, by supplementing § 28 of the Citizenship Act, according to which Estonian citizenship may be taken away from a person who has committed a criminal offence under § 232 of the Penal Code, § 2342, § 237 of 2373 or § 2375 and against whom a conviction has entered into force. In short, what is the content of these paragraphs? The content states that Estonian citizenship may be taken away from a person who has been punished for committing serious crimes against the state. It is important to note that Estonian citizenship cannot be taken away from Estonian citizens after birth. However, Estonian citizenship can be taken away from those who have become Estonian citizens by naturalisation, if they have committed the corresponding acts to those sections that contain treason, intelligence or terrorist offences. This is a decision to consider and the decision to withdraw citizenship is taken by the Government of the Republic. Another important addition: the law says that the basis for taking away citizenship is when a person has tried to change our constitutional order by violent means. This is very important on the violent road! At the same time, the current law does not provide for the commission of other serious crimes against the state as a basis for the withdrawal of citizenship, which could result in significantly more damaging consequences in their nature or extent than a failed attempt to change the constitutional order of Estonia by violent means. Therefore, a new basis for the withdrawal of citizenship is provided for financing and supporting treason or intelligence activities against Estonia or terrorist offences, membership of a terrorist organisation, preparation of a terrorist offence and actions aimed at calling for such a crime, or travel for terrorist purposes [conviction]. I think this is a rather exhaustive list and describes the entire content of the draft quite precisely. So we can say that these are crimes that are not covered by the grounds for withdrawing Estonian citizenship set out in § 28 (1) of the Citizenship Act currently in force. So far, if you ask for and talk about precedents, by decision of the Government of the Republic, the citizenship has been taken away from 11 persons, one of whom concealed the circumstances that would have ruled out the granting of citizenship to the Estonian citizen by making false declarations, and ten persons used fraud and did not pass the required exams of knowledge of Estonian language and laws, providing false information about the passing of the exam. If you ask how much resonance this is, in other words, how many people this supplement could affect, it is undoubtedly very difficult to do this statistics. But if we base what has already happened on treason, terrorism and so on, we can say that eight persons have so far been convicted of treason or terrorist crime. Between 2010 and 2019, five persons have been convicted of treason, two persons have been held responsible for terrorist offences and one of them has also been convicted for financing and supporting terrorist offences and activities aimed at committing them. One person has been convicted in 2019 for and supporting intelligence activities against the Republic of Estonia. This will put an end to my introductory and introductory speech and give the floor to the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U133	The President shall give an opportunity to ask questions. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U134	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Here's the question. If a person born, for example, in a family of stateless parents has acquired Estonian citizenship, radicalised on the Internet, commits a terrorist offence and, as a result, the Estonian state takes his or her citizenship, then at some point a situation may arise where he or she loses the right to stay in Estonia and we should send him or her out somewhere. Where do we send such a person when he is born and raised here in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U135	First we're gonna bring a man like that to justice, and if a court finds him guilty, we're gonna put him in jail. Then he spends time in prison. If he is released from prison, he or she can apply for a temporary or permanent residence permit in the Republic of Estonia on the basis of the Citizenship Act of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U136	Raimond Kaljulaid, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U137	I will then specify the fact that such a person will continue to live here in Estonia, even though he has committed, for example, a serious terrorist offence or treason, is still in our society, in our country, on our streets. It's just that he won't have any citizenship. Is that the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U138	Well, we certainly will not hinder him if he can legally go to another country, which of course must be willing to accept him. But yes, we do not have that attitude towards people that once they have served the sentence, they will still be guilty for the rest of their lives and will be deprived of all their civil rights. There are no such laws in Estonia. This means, as I said, that, in accordance with the laws in force, these people have the right to apply for a residence permit in Estonia after they have been punished.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U139	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I would like to ask Mr Grünthal, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the second rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 21 September, the Constitutional Committee discussed the preparation for the first reading of the draft Act supplementing § 28 of the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Paul Puustusmaa, chairman of the committee, Kaja Kallas, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Lauri Läänemets, Hanno Pevkur, Martin Repinski, Taavi Rõivas, and the rapporteur for this draft, participated in the proceedings. The draft was presented by Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior, Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, and Koidu Bee, adviser. By introducing the draft law to the Commission, Mart Helme stated that according to the additional provision of § 28 of the Citizenship Act, Estonian citizenship may be taken away from a person who has committed a criminal offence under § 232, § 2342, § 237.2373 or § 2375 of the Penal Code and who has been the subject of a conviction judgment. At the moment, the law states that citizenship can be withdrawn if a person has tried to change the constitutional order of Estonia by violent means, i.e. it is an act against constitutional order. However, the law does not make any assessment of other actions against constitutional order, such as terrorism, treason, intelligence and the financing of all these activities. Mart Helme said that many people have also recently been deprived of their citizenship. That is what he noted in his report. I would go further where the Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, Ruth Annus, pointed out a very important point which also raised questions in the Commission as to why not all anti-State crimes have been listed. His view was that the crimes on the list were well thought out. The withdrawal of nationality is a very important decision and therefore only treason, intelligence and terrorist offences were included in the list. On the basis of the principle of proportionality, it is not, in principle, right to deprive a person of his nationality for an offence against the state, even if it is a decision of assessment. Only the most serious crimes have been included in the list. Mart Helme pointed out very rightly that the withdrawal of citizenship significantly limits the potential activities of such a person in public offices, in the defence forces and in other structures of importance for national security. This is an important nuance that should be taken into account when taking away citizenship. Ruth Annus also noted that, under international law, the State is also obliged to take back its former citizens if they have not acquired the nationality of another country. Thus, if a person is deprived of his or her nationality and does not have the nationality of another country, his or her legal status is in fact a stateless person. If he later travels the world and there is a problem on the territory of another country, the Republic of Estonia must take this person back. This position, or rather an explanation, raised a number of questions in the Commission. So Siim Kiisler studied what happens when a person is taken from citizenship and gets out of prison: is he issued with a grey passport or is he granted a permanent residence permit in Estonia? Ruth Annus explained that this person would receive a temporary residence permit. Eligibility for a long-term residence permit is subject to the condition that the person must not pose a threat to public policy or national security, which these persons undoubtedly pose to a certain extent. A person receives a temporary residence permit simply because there is nowhere else to send him. Andrei Korobeinik asked what would happen if the temporary residence permit ended. Ruth Annus replied that it was possible for the state to refuse to grant a residence permit to a person, as this is actually a decision to consider. And if the person still has nowhere to be sent, he will inevitably remain on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. Andrei Korobeinik then explained his question as to whether this was contrary to the principles of granting a residence permit, since this person, after all, presents a certain degree of danger. Ruth's dose responded that it all depends on the circumstances. It is possible that a person may not even receive a temporary residence permit if he or she has really been convicted of treason, intelligence or terrorist offences. However, it is possible that this person, 30 years later, will no longer pose a threat to national security. Paul Puustusmaa noted that Ruth's Dosage said that this was a question of consideration that allowed flexibility, but the question was whether the principle of equal treatment was not problematic here. For example, when an administrative court begins to deal with the fact that some people have been deprived of their citizenship for treason and some have been retained, and the person challenges it. Ruth's dose response was that if one person had been judged to retain citizenship, this would in no way lead to another person's legitimate expectation that he would retain citizenship, for example, if he had committed treason. However, flexibility, or discretion, is still necessary in this sense, that in certain cases it is precisely in the interests of the Republic of Estonia that a person should continue to be a citizen. For example, the Defence Police Department might be interested. Following this debate, the Commission took three consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 30 September inclusive, to propose the completion of the first reading and to appoint Mr Kalle Grünthal, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U141	Thank you. You have questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U142	Good manager! Good waitress! First of all, I would like to thank you for a very meaningful explanation, many of which were answered by your explanations and questions from the Members of the Commission. But I still had the question, what's really gonna change? The person is taken away from citizenship, he sits in prison [his time] and eventually he remains in Estonia, only he stays here without the stateless. I don't know if it's a gray passport or what it's staying with. He's gotta be somebody. It shall not be possible to expel him unless he or she has the nationality of another State. Where did you get off to? I understand that a number of Members of the Commission have asked similar questions. But where did that answer come from? So what's gonna change? Let's say a person gets five years' sentence, five years' time comes out, gets a temporary residence permit once, and eventually he should be granted an open-ended residence permit. Or what's the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U143	Thank you. The question, frankly, remained in the air. Although for the crimes that we listed here, there is no punishment as small as five years. I'm saying I might be wrong here. But the question is entirely legitimate, because we are actually in front of a bit of a broken trough. Yes, if a person has the nationality of another country, he or she will simply be expelled or deprived of his or her residence permit if he or she has somewhere else to go. Here perhaps the whole of the Riigikogu would need the help of smart people to think about how to resolve this situation so that the person who endangers the state cannot continue to reside in this territory. This is a very legitimate issue and it should be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U144	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U145	Thank you. You described it quite well that, since it is a decision to consider, there are, as always, black, white and grey tones around it. But § 28 also relates to § 26, which says that a person may not be released from Estonian citizenship if the result is non-nationality. My question is that if, according to you, the basis for this consideration now is whether or not a person is dangerous to the Republic of Estonia, what is the basis for the consideration? Is it already regulated in some other legislation, or is it really at the level of "normal" and " random" decisions today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U146	Thank you for your question. Let's just say that Article 27 of the Citizenship Act states that the Government of the Republic decides to exempt Estonia from citizenship. It is a 'basically obligatory decision' and there is no dispute about it. Paragraph 26 'Limits in the release of Estonian citizenship' does indeed lay down the matters defined by you. There are restrictions, aren't there? If we read this, then: 'The person may not be released from Estonian citizenship if: 1) result in citizenshiplessness; 2) the person has outstanding obligations to the Estonian state. 'But according to the so-called grammatical interpretation, or the wording of the law, my assessment now is that 'the person may' is not a categorical statement. And that is, let's say, one way that this person may not be released from citizenship. It's like I don't know how to comment on it anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U147	Aivar Chef, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U148	Thank you, good manager. For the stenogram, I will specify, just in case, that a maximum term of imprisonment of five years is foreseen for committing the criminal offence provided for in § 2375 of the Penal Code. The following paragraphs also include up to life. So it's still possible for up to five years, and that means that if it's up to five years, it could be a few months and a few years. I want strength and strength for the Commission, because the subject is right. But there you should definitely try to find a solution in the law, so what happens if, in three years' time, this person gets out again, gets here under Estonian conditions and does the same crimes. Then maybe he'll get a longer sentence, but then there'll be the cost of the state budget, and we'll have to keep him in jail.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U149	Thank you, good questioner! In fact, your point is absolutely correct. Of course, I'm gonna have to fix you, too. You said paragraph 237 (5), but it's 237 marked 5, i.e. traveling for terrorist purposes, I guess we get it, don't we? And here it is, indeed, that it is punishable by up to five years imprisonment. Your attention in this regard is correct. But, as I said, I have not completely memorized the list of these relative sanctions. In that case, I would like to thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U150	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no three questions, there are only two questions. Thank you. No further questions. The representatives of the political groups will be able to negotiate. There doesn't seem to be a wish, so I'll consider the negotiations to be over. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 217 be completed. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 14 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U151	Let's go to the next item. Agenda item 5: First reading of draft law 234 amending the Tourism Act and the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The amendment of the Tourism Act and the Consumer Protection Act is necessary to modernise and simplify the requirements of accommodation establishments. The aim of the draft is to ensure a level playing field on the market for all providers of accommodation services, both for classic hotels and holiday homes, as well as for capsule hotels and campsites entering the market alongside them. The results of the proposed amendments are as follows: The rules for the provision of accommodation services will become more flexible, the number of requirements will decrease, the level of detail will decrease, and the costs will be reduced to meet the requirements. There is a reduction in bureaucracy and overregulation. The changes favour new and innovative services without compromising safety and health requirements. The activities in the field of hotel start-up are entrusted to the sector itself, to the accommodation associations. Quality and trust marks can be implemented in the future without the approval of the Ministry. The reporting of travel companies to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority will become fully digital, which will also help to improve monitoring. The tourist accommodation market has undergone major changes in recent years due to increasing digitalisation and the emergence of new business models. Customer expectations have also changed. The Tourism Act has not substantially changed the legal framework relating to the provision of accommodation services in the last 15 years. As a result, today's legal framework does not take sufficient account of new trends and trends, and some of the current requirements have slipped over time. The draft reduces the constraints that today are no longer directly needed, without which the market itself is doing well. For example, the accommodation facilities' furnishings and additional services, such as breakfast, are no longer required by the state to prescribe, as comfort requirements and quality are regulated by the market itself. By giving companies more freedom to decide their own services, we encourage the emergence of new innovative solutions and thus competition. The amendments are planned to enter into force on 1 May 2021. The reports of travel operators are already partly electronic today, so the proposed change is not a big one, the electronic environment is familiar to most of them. It is easy to use and there will be no new costs. Dear members of the Riigikogu, please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U153	Questions. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U154	Good manager! Minister, maybe you'll be a little more specific about what changes in the sharing economy, guest apartments, home accommodation. At present, many taxes are often simply lost. Is this side of the bill in mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U155	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. What's missing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U156	Sharing accommodation, apartment accommodation, guest apartments, home accommodation. Would the new law change anything in this area? We know that, in this collaborative economy, most taxes are not paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U157	Thank you. A specific change of law that I have proposed will not change this situation. However, the Ministry of Finance is preparing a change that would also change this situation, so that the tax authorities can and would be taxed on the turnover of private individuals and accommodation companies that are carried out through distribution platforms. I certainly support this addition, because it will make competition in the market more fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U158	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would now like to ask Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission, to be the rapporteur for this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U159	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber and on the other side of the screen! The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on 22 September. The Commission's work was attended by the speaker, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Korb, Kristen Michal, Kai Rimmel. The officials attended the meeting of Kaido Rosin, Atko-Madis Tammar, Piia Schults, Elis Themas and, of course, the protocolmaker Mari Street. The draft was presented, as today, by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. The Minister's advisor Moonika Parksepp, Kristi Talving, Deputy Chancellor of the Internal Market, and Kati Kikas, Adviser to the Trade and Services Department of the Internal Market Department were also present at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I would like to give an overview of the issues raised in the Commission. Sven Sester asked if there were earlier concepts such as hotel, motel, guesthouse, hostel, holiday home, holiday village and camp definitions in the law. Yes, you were. All these definitions were previously included in the Tourism Act and the accompanying implementing legislation. Sven Sester also asked why there was only one comment on the comments sheet attached to the draft. It was as if we understood that some of the comments had not been sent to us. Kati Kikas, Adviser to the Department of Trade and Services of the Internal Market, replied that the annex to this draft was initially considerably longer. It also included a fundamental change in the registration of visitors to accommodation establishments. And specifically: the sector, especially the larger hotels, has wanted the registration of visitors to be electronic. If the visitor is registered, it would immediately go to the country's necessary database. Today, visitors are registered on paper and keeping these papers no longer meets current data protection requirements. The hotel sector was very much looking forward to this amendment with this draft. Unfortunately, this amendment was withdrawn from the draft before being submitted to the government, as many questions were raised in coordination circles regarding data protection requirements. It will further develop and when a new digital solution to collect them has been developed, a new draft amendment to the Tourism Act will be submitted to the Riigikogu. The requirement for the registration of guests in itself stems from the Schengen Convention. This is basically for all businesses providing temporary accommodation as well as for private individuals. Before the first reading could be found today, more precisely a few days after the draft was received into Riigikogu proceedings, amendments to the draft were submitted by the Ministry of Finance, signed by the Minister of Finance. However, these proposals in themselves concern the Income Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act and relate to the collection of data on guest housing. This is the same subject Aivar Kokk asked the previous speaker about. For Sven Sester and the speaker here too, it seemed strange why these proposals from the Ministry of Finance had not been immediately included in the draft. These are quite fundamental changes, which should have gone through a coordination round or rather been put into a separate draft which the government would have submitted to the Committee on Monetary Affairs for discussion. However, since the amendments are not yet being discussed today, the Committee on Economic Affairs hopes to get more information from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and also from the Government on how to proceed with these proposals. And if necessary, we will continue to discuss these issues. Why are these changes so important? These changes place Airbnb and booking.com the obligation to declare to the Estonian Tax Office the beneficiary of the payment in two data fields, i.e. the entrepreneur or the natural person and the business register code or personal identification code, respectively, in order to report their costs, i.e. payments, on digital marketing platforms. The information on this declaration shall be entered automatically in the income tax return of the person receiving the payment. This issue is also under discussion in Europe at large and has been discussed by the European Commission. The most powerful amendment of the Tax Administration Act would be that if the digital marketing portal does not provide data, it is possible to impose a sanction, whether it is forced money or blocking the domain on the territory of Estonia. This is likely to affect a large part of the Estonian population, because I think that booking.com has been used by almost all telephone and computer users on their travels. I am simply pointing out that this is a big enough issue that we will have to discuss in the Committee on Economic Affairs in the near future, and I ask that we think about it seriously in all political groups. However, the Commission's decisions: it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda to date, the decision was adopted by consensus and to propose that the first reading be closed. This decision was also taken by consensus. That's all I got. Thank you for listening!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U160	Thank you. Aivar Chef, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U161	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! With this amendment, we have asked the Minister of Finance to withdraw it from the Committee on Economic Affairs. By signing the signature, the Minister knew it would come to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I hope that the Committee on Monetary Affairs is still working on this area. But I have a question about § 19 (11) of the Tourism Act, which is to be amended according to the draft law. If you read its wording, what is being supplemented here, then... It states here that the law enforcement body may enter only the accommodation service provider under the conditions laid down in § 50 of the Law Enforcement Act and so on... The accommodation service provider may also be a company. What does that really mean? If I have an apartment, I offer apartment services in Tallinn City and I have a home in Tartu, it is as if you can break down the door at any time and open the gates and remove other obstacles in order to come into my home. Isn't there something a little off in this wording?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U162	I think there is nothing wrong with this wording. The law enforcement body may not enter the premises at any time, but under the conditions laid down in § 50 of the Law Enforcement Act. The same point has been the case in the past in the Tourism Act. But what's changed here is that it says "accommodation service provider," maybe it used to be "accommodation company." Such a change in the use of words is envisaged in this draft. Accommodation service is a temporary overnight stay offer and accommodation companies are accommodation providers. But you asked for this amendment to be withdrawn. The Minister of Finance has initiated a document entitled 'Amendments to the draft law amending the Tourism Act and the Consumer Protection Act' and it contains proposals to amend the Income Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act. If you have these two laws pending in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, of course this can be done, otherwise a new draft should be tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U163	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, From this last answer, I have already had some explanation for my question. However, I am asking for clarification: is it possible that this same law amending the Tourism Act and the Consumer Protection Act will also be amended by proposals that the Ministry of Finance is interested in taxation? Maybe they'll come before the second reading, for example? Or is all of this coming to a new procedure? Just to make sense of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U165	I understand that these amendments have been tabled on this draft, which is then the draft law amending the Tourism Act and the Consumer Protection Act. This is requested to be supplemented by a new paragraph under which the Income Tax Act would also be amended. These proposals have come before the deadline for amendments and we are discussing them as amendments. But if the Minister of Finance calls them back, it's his will and will. He can do that, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U166	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 234. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 14 October at 5.15 p.m. Today's fifth item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U167	Today's sixth item is the first reading of the draft law 235 on the repeal of the Commercial Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, consequently, the amendment of other laws. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U168	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to present a draft law repealing the Commercial Act and amending the laws affected by it. In view of developments in the area of justice, this law no longer provides added value for traders in the field of trade, but duplicates the rules laid down by other laws on economic activity. The aim is to reduce the area's overregulation and the workload of businesses and local authorities and the state. The development of a draft law is necessary for modernising, tidying and simplifying the legal regulation in the field of trade. The Trade Act was adopted and entered into force in 2004. A major change was introduced with the entry into force of the general part of the Code of Economic Activities on 1 July 2014, when the obligation to submit an economic activity notification was waived in trade, of course, unless the special law so requires, such as the sale of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products. The draft does not impose any new restrictions on commercial operators, while maintaining the necessary legal framework for the exercise of the freedom to conduct a business. The draft has been coordinated with economic operators through professional associations, both the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Small and Medium Enterprises Association and the Traders' Association. The Unions agree with the amendments. The Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities has also been negotiated. In order to implement the law, market participants and supervisory authorities do not need to prepare or change the organisation of work. Thus, the Act enters into force in general, on the 10th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I ask you to support the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U169	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I now ask Mr Rimmel, member of the Economic Commission, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs held on 22 September, a draft was under discussion, which was just submitted by the Minister. The item on the agenda was to send 235 draft laws on the repeal of the Commercial Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, consequently, the amendment of other laws to the first reading of the debate. The meeting was attended by Sven Sester, Annely Akkermann, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Korb, Kristen Michal and there was no Kalvi Tõik. The meeting was also attended by Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Moonika Parksepp, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Joonas Pärenson, Head of the Department of Trade and Services of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Merike Koppel, Adviser. The Minister introduced the draft law on the repeal of the Commercial Act and, consequently, on the amendment of other laws. The proposal updates, organises and simplifies the legal regulation in the field of trade in order to reduce over-regulation, duplication and the volume of regulation, as well as the administrative burden. Joonas Pärenson, Head of the Department of Trade and Services of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, explained that trade activities are part of economic activities and many of the necessary provisions are already in good writing in the General Part of Economic Activities Act. The Trade Act duplicates a number of specific provisions and specific laws. The repeal of the Act is expected to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and local authorities. The speaker asked and asked whether the current provisions of the Commercial Act were transferred to other laws, such as alcohol law, law of order or forest law. According to Joonas Pärenson, that is what is done. In Kristen Michal's view, it is extremely commendable that the administrative burden on the undertaking may have been reduced as a result of administrative action. Michal asked if there were any other initiatives to be taken, or whether it was only in connection with this act. Mr Aas replied that there would be no more such initiatives in this and next semester. Aas confirmed that the Commission would be happy to bring forward such proposals concerning some kind of repeal of the law, because some laws are being supplemented indefinitely. Sven Sester pointed out that the opinion of the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities was partially taken into account during the coordination process and that there were no comments or comments from the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry on this draft. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda by 30 September this year and to propose that the first reading be closed. All decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U171	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U172	Good manager! Good waitress! Let's take the sentence above page two of this bill: 'The law of law makes the following changes... 'And if I read one to one here now, I see a phrase: 'to offer a person in a disturbing way to beg for a good or service or in a disturbing way to sell a good or to provide a service in a way that unduly disturbs the people present near the site'. There is, of course, here, I understand, in the current law that it cannot be done. But if I'm reading this bill right now, it's like I can only offer a good or a service if I'm disturbing and fussing. How can you comment on this, or was there a debate on it in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U173	This point was not specifically discussed. But here under § 4, we are talking about amending the Law Enforcement Act. This point is obviously a complement to this law and there is already a reference to a ban. This sale must not be carried out in a disturbing manner. It's probably already in that other law. This needs to be clarified. Thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U174	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 235. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 14 October at 5.15 p.m. The sixth item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U175	Let's keep going. The seventh item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft Act of the Government of the Republic and the Act of Amendment of other Acts (merging the Air Administration, the Road Administration and the Maritime Administration). Mr Taavi Aasa, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U176	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft amendment of the Government of the Republic Act and other laws (merging the Air Administration, Road Administration and Maritime Administration). On the basis of the results of the analysis of the transport institutions, the Government of the Republic decided to set up by 1 January 2021 a joint office called the Agency for Mobility at the meeting of the Cabinet on 18 June 2020. The merger between the Authority, the Road Administration and the Maritime Administration is based on a more general principle of state reform, namely reducing duplication in public administrations, reducing the number of public authorities and improving the quality and availability of public services. In addition, it is also important to emphasise the changes needed for the future development of the field. In fact, the word mobility is raising its head all over the world. For example, the term mobility as a service is spoken of. These are not just words, but a future trend in the whole sector, which speaks of transport as a whole service across species. The aim is to provide customers with the smooth movement of goods from point A to point B by integrating the journey together, if necessary, using different modes of transport. There is digital interaction and the most efficient, resource-efficient and environmentally friendly alternative is offered. We know how ambitious the climate targets are, and so change is definitely necessary. If you look beyond Estonia too, the European Union has a 'Mobility Plan' in place. The European Commission has designated the Directorate for Mobility and Transport as the European Commission's Directorate-General responsible for this issue. The Mobility Package, which also includes the transport of goods, has also just been adopted by the European Parliament, and that is why it is not mentioned as a transport package. But back to Estonia. While road, maritime and air transport and the corresponding investments have so far been organised and financed separately at the implementation level, a cross-modal approach creates opportunities for integrated and better planning and efficient transport management. It is important to enable the development of innovative and forward-looking mobility services at national level. Above all, we want to provide our people with a high-quality, safe and modern public service. The benefits of interconnecting bodies to the wider public sector will certainly also be linked to the economies of scale resulting from the pooling of support functions, which in the longer term will be reflected in the more cost-effective investment decisions, both in infrastructure development and in the organisation of services, in a cross-modal approach. The aim is to make better use of taxpayers' money, to be able to ensure sustainable development in the sector, to support innovation in the sector. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic, is preparing a new development plan for the years 2021 to 2035 which aims at better organisation of mobility services. This means ensuring access to services and destinations through smarter roads and railways, use of airspace and waterways, planning for more efficient and safer mobility, replacing movements, compatibility between transport systems and using smart solutions. A little bit of the Commonwealth's name, which has given rise to discussion. The legal address of the Director General of the Merit will be the current address of the main office of the Maritime Administration at Valge Street 4 in Tallinn. The new one-stop-shop is a government agency called the Mobility Board, which performs the functions, rights and duties of the current Authority, the Road Administration and the Maritime Administration. Now, about the question of why it is the Agency. We have asked for feedback on the use of this term from respected academics, lecturers in the field at Harvard, University of Tartu, TalTech and we have received a clear signal that the use of this term in the name of the agency reflects this future vision and the future challenges of the whole field better than the word 'transport' would do so to date. One example of the feedback is from Dago Antov, Tallinn University of Technology. I quote: 'In higher education and higher education institutions, the concept of mobility is already rooted both in teaching and research on this subject, but specifically in curricula. 'Dago Antovi thinks the name 'Transport Board' would be a step backwards. The last sentence was also used by Tiit Tammar from the University of Tartu to provide feedback. Another example of feedback is from the University of Massachusetts, Andres Sevchuk. I quote: 'In Estonia, the term 'transport' has been institutionally linked to motorized devices, i.e. car, train, bus, ship. There is a lack of coordination of land use in planning mobility. ' An opinion was also sought from the Institute of the Estonian Language, the Director General Arvi Tavast replied. There are some quotations from him: if mobility as a term is in place, then the suitability of the mobility agency will inevitably be derived from it; there are no linguistic reasons why the mobility agency should not qualify as the Agency's name. And he also said that'mobility and transport' is certainly not better, rather the opposite, it is longer, it is worse to use in texts, and there is a repetition as a basis for further reference. Now on the timetable for merging agencies and additional functions. The plan is to merge government agencies by 1 January 2021. By the time the Act enters into force, the merger-related activities will be completed, including the development of a new statute, structure and composition, and the accompanying human resources activities. Issues relating to the budget will also be resolved, and amendments to the regulations introduced under the amending laws will be initiated. Transfers and reorganisations of staff shall be carried out by each institution within the limits of its own officials. The merger does not merely reorganize inter-agency work. By joining us, we will create a maritime deputy chancellor place with the Maritime Department at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. We also bring the marketing activities of the project bringing ships under the flag of Estonia to the Ministry. In addition to other modes of transport, issues related to the promotion of Estonian maritime transport are still very important for the government and I am pleased that we are creating a position with the deployment of the position of Deputy Maritime Chancellor, which will accelerate the development of this area. In order to create a cross-modal whole, we must also talk about rail. On the basis of the decision of the Government of the Republic at the Cabinet meeting of 18 June 2020, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will have to carry out by January 2022 an analysis of the feasibility of connecting railway infrastructure management and the organisation of rail transport with other modes of transport and possible solutions based on the objectives of the state reform. To order this work, a starting task and procurement have been put together. The procurement will be announced in the near future. The aim is to achieve possible results by the summer of 2021. It will then be possible to take decisions on which timetable and the best way to organise the railway sector efficiently and sustainably. The draft amends the law of the Government of the Republic and other relevant laws with the aim of combining the government agencies of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications with the Administration of the Air Administration, Road Administration and Maritime Administration into the Office of Mobility. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia carried out a tiger jump in the IT field. The transport sector is facing major changes and challenges and needs to face them with courage. With this bill, we create a prerequisite for developing future mobility services and solutions in Estonia. Dear members of the Riigikogu, please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U177	Mr. Minister, there are some questions for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U178	Good manager! Good Minister, first of all, thank you very much for bringing such a bill to this hall with a good decision. But what I'm asking you is that I'm looking at these connecting costs, they're almost 1.4 million. At some point, it's like you're going to have to save some expense. Can you tell whether, in the second, third or fourth years, the result of the merger is that, on the one hand, there is a better service and, on the other hand, there is cost savings?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U179	Thank you. It is precisely the elimination of duplicate services that will certainly lead to cost savings. Above all, however, the aim is, of course, to improve the quality of services. However, for the most part, it is true that major reforms also entail costs in the first phase. But I'm sure I can see ways to save. Possible staff savings have also been worked out, and here again I am thinking of duplication of activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U180	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U181	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Mr. Minister! Name Mobility Agency. This choice of names is said to be preferred for the reason that I quote 'it carries on as a name a change which, as a trend in the world, is raising its head. ' I looked it up, according to the Institute of Estonian Language, the word'mobility' is used in medicine, for example, the mobility of joints, the mobility of nerve processes, as well as in music where melody mobility is spoken; or it describes a property such as fantasy mobility. According to the lyrics dictionary, this means the ability to move, such as the ability of the joints to move. And now I have the question: why are you abnormally twisting our Estonian language just to follow any trends in the moment? As the trend changes, will we be able to come up with a new name for this Commonwealth?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U182	Thank you. I will answer you with the words of Arvi Tavasti, Director General of the Institute of Estonian Language. I quote Arvi Tavasti: 'One standard objection is based on the earlier meanings of the word. About that move can only be phone numbers (as shown by the National Journal request) or joints (as shown by the athletes' language experience). ' And I continue to quote the Director General of the Language Institute: 'To this I suggest that ambiguity is a natural and inevitable characteristic of words. Transmission of meaning is one of the most common ways to get a term. Almost all the words of the Estonian language, especially the words of skill, are ambiguous in exactly the same way as it is easy to see by browsing every major dictionary. ' This is the answer of the Director General of the Institute of the Estonian Language.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U183	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U184	Thank you very much, chairman of the meeting. Minister, I have a question about this joint agency, whatever it is called. It doesn't care much. But how do you look at the fact that the supervisory functions and actual work are connected to the same institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U185	This topic was a very clear focus on the establishment of the agency. It was considered in every way whether this was reasonable. And they found it reasonable. As far as I know, the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate have recently been merged into one agency in the same way. So yes, it has been taken into account, it has been considered, but it has been found not to be an obstacle.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U186	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U187	Thank you. Minister, I have a question for you. You have made an important point in your report, which is mostly one of the aims of the reforms: more efficient use of taxpayers' money, economies of scale and savings among staff. It would be very nice if you specifically mentioned some examples of how taxpayers' money is used more effectively. These could be practical and understandable examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U188	I'm sorry, I started to find out if there were any savings in the materials. Unfortunately, it is not, but I will say from memory, that about 10% of staff savings will be achieved in support services.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U189	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U190	Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Good minister. I'll continue on the name. In Nokia's case, there was once a problem that he first made rubbers, then started making cable and finally making cell phones. And they chose "Connecting People" as their slogan. Perhaps you could have considered appointing this office as the Office of the Communities or something. Maybe we could think this through again. My second question concerns the fact that there are many different and difficult areas together. Do you think it's gonna be easy or difficult to run a job like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U191	The Road Administration is the largest of the agencies to be merged. I don't think running it is an easy job today. I'm sure running a big job is a difficult job. As far as the name is concerned, once again: this issue was also discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs and, after the debate in the Commission, we did indeed appeal to various specialists for comments. These comments were received and will certainly be forwarded to the Committee on Economic Affairs. But I personally think that the name is certainly not the most important in this process. So if, between readings, it is found in the Riigikogu that there should be another name for this profession, then the decision of the Riigikogu is highest and then it will remain so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U192	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U193	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have a question for you about this name. In the European Union, there is a Commission unit responsible for traffic and transport policy in the European Union. Its name includes the words'mobility and transport' and its Director-General is Henrik Hololei. Despite your references that this is the opinion of specialists that'mobility' is appropriate, I am somehow of the opinion that these instructions have come to you from the area I mentioned. The question is that Estonian is a beautiful language and why we do not use the word 'transport', which is understandable to every person. Instead, we use the word'mobility' that can be used, as Kert Kingo called, when talking about blood circulation and joints.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U194	Thank you. I also referred to 'Mobility Plan' in my presentation in the European Union. Mobility bemovement. However, as far as these opinions are concerned, no one has directed them anywhere. We ourselves approached various specialists and asked for their views. Once again, if the members of the Riigikogu find that the committee considers that the name should be something else, it is the decision of the Riigikogu and, of course, it will remain so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U195	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U196	Thank you. Mr. Minister! How do you feel about the fact that Ando Leppiman, an official of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, sends a letter with a question or rather a proposal: we need your support for the meaning and substance of the word'mobility'? If this is not biased wording, what do you call it? There is no other way to call it. There's no way Mr. Tava's gonna respond any different than that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U197	Thank you. Perhaps the wording of this question was not the most successful one. But while those who responded are, I think, competent enough in their area of people to express a different opinion than they would have had.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U198	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U199	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I have another question for you. Reading the draft and thinking about merging these agencies, I had the impression that aspects of maritime security had not been analysed in the drafting of the draft. As of this morning, I also made sure that the navy had not given its opinion, not even asking them. I don't know yet about the Department of Defense. Who were the people who gave you advice on maritime security when drafting this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U200	Thank you. This draft has nothing to do with the maritime security of the Republic of Estonia, especially military security. This certainly concerns the Maritime Administration, and it concerns the safety of shipping. This function will be maintained by this Commonwealth. Maritime policy is primarily brought to the level of the ministry, but of course it is not a military maritime policy, but a policy of peace or peaceful maritime activity. The marketing of the so-called 'Ship under the flag of Estonia' project is also brought to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U201	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U202	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In my opinion, I have a question: is maritime legal education one of the conditions for fulfilling this planned post of Vice Chancellor?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U203	Thank you. It is certainly not regulated merely by the fact that there should be a legal education for maritime affairs. But, of course, we expect the employee in this position to have either maritime education or something other maritime-related. It doesn't just have to be legal, maybe something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U204	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U205	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I would like to add another term to this'mobility'. I don't know how this hall will accept it, but I'm asking about accessibility. In the case of mobility, I understand the aim is that both ships and cars, in short, these connections are logically, conveniently linked. But what does comfort look like for people? Is accessibility, so that everyone can use transport comfortably and access the services they need, also the responsibility of this agency? Are these issues resolved in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, or how is this kind of accessibility in connection with the establishment of the Mobility Agency considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U206	Thank you. In fact, the reason why the Agency's name has been initially chosen is that it is meant that its activities are not limited to transport. Not only are these specific mechanical devices or specific infrastructure. Today, getting from one point to another requires much more. It is also expected that the word'mobility' includes accessibility. People must be helped to move from one point to another, and accessibility is also very important when it arrives. This is undoubtedly part of the work of this agency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U207	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U208	Thank you. I would, however, add to my previous question and ask again. Mr Ahti King sent a question similar to that already said to very respected people and wrote at the end of the letter: 'We therefore ask you to support the suitability of the Estonian word. ' There was no real description of the word we're talking about, just the suitability of the word, which this agency literally does. Whether the title should not reflect the actual activities of the agency or not. When we talk about mobility, we are already going on the trails of the Olympic Committee, which has also organised a mobility campaign.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U209	Thank you. Once again, I do not consider the name of the new agency to be the most important thing in this reform. The fact that officials have turned and asked for support, well, perhaps a more neutral wording could have been used. But no one would have forced that name to support. A different view could have been expressed if honourable people had had had such a different view. But once again: the draft will reach the Commission, and I understand that there is enough reason to discuss this issue, because this name raises questions. Of course, there is an opportunity to discuss this issue in the committee and, if necessary, invite experts from Estonian who can give their advice, which could be the best name of this agency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U210	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will also return to my first question. This concerned the effective use of taxpayers' money. With regard to this reform, the result should be very clear. You only gave one example when you answered, but I assume there are more. This example concerned a 10% reduction in staff in support services. Can you give a few more examples, given that around 800 people work in this area, all of them are not, of course, in support services. But it would be good if you could give me another example. Secondly, will MKM also be the Vice-Chancellor of Aviation and the Vice-Chancellor of the Road in connection with this reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U212	Thank you. As an additional example, I would like to point out the savings that can be made in action. Again, it is an activity that is duplicated in these agencies. All three agencies are working in parallel with IT developments, and it will certainly be more effective in the Commonwealth. As regards the additional Vice-Chancellors, no, no, no other Deputy Secretary-General positions will be created in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The position of Deputy Secretary-General of Maritime Affairs is directly related to bringing ships under the Estonian flag, the development of Estonian maritime affairs at all, and this has also been agreed with interest groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U213	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U214	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Based on your previous answer to me, I will return to the demands of the Vice Chancellor and his legal skills and knowledge in the maritime field. I don't mean to say if maritime education is enough, but the Ministry shouldn't think that ordinary legal and maritime law is quite simple. As far as I can tell, this is quite a specific area. It's supposed to be that we don't have a problem later. Now this name, which has raised many questions. I liked the way you flirted here with the words "mobility" and "access." I come to the thought of what a driving force is. Motivating people. And now, if there's some sort of motivational facility and it's called a moving power plant, it's pretty complicated. People think that maybe they can do field concerts, but it turns out it's the center of motivation, training people in this profession. The name is quite important, however, and that is what we are criticising here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U215	Thank you. Maritime law is indeed very specific; it is not a simple area. I do not know exactly what the requirements of the Republic of Estonia are for candidates for deputy chancellors. But I wouldn't mind if people who come to compete had a maritime lawyer's diploma, for example, could be completely free. However, such choices are dealt with by the selection panel for senior officials and the setting of these criteria is within the remit of this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U216	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U217	Thank you. Unfortunately, the railways are not connected here either, but my question is based on the question of Riina Sikkut. You said this U.S.A. is also dealing with accessibility. But how does the Ministry of Economic Affairs resolve the situation that it is practically impossible for people with reduced mobility to go down steep stairs from the other platform of the Tartu railway station? Mothers and fathers with a baby cart are in trouble and, of course, wheelchair people. When will this problem be solved? You have largely the key.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U218	Thank you. As far as rail connections are concerned, as I said in the report: everything that concerns rail is being clarified at the moment. It shall explain how and to what extent it will be combined. The question is simply that the three agencies that are merged are state agencies. Rail is a public limited company, which is a slightly different form of ownership, and hence it is not as easy to merge as it is to join state agencies. This analysis will be completed next year and then you will also be able to respond to how it makes sense to act on the railways. As far as the Tartu railway station is concerned, I will keep this in mind and find out what the problem is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U219	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U220	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Surprisingly, the word'mobility' has become the hit of the budget day. I myself have'mobility' to do with something bright and flying, but 'transport' ironically sounds like something heavy and stationary. But once the language people have approved, let him be. All I know is that movement is a toast. Now, if you look at the mobility trend, before a person took a car, he drove from one point to another. Or took the train or walked. But now the possibility of combining has grown so much. Combining, going on a bicycle, for example, on a train and being able to travel very comfortably to your desired destination station. Or take the electric pulse wheel or pass part of the distance by foot, part by public vehicle. I ask, given these trends, whether the new profession is planning to analyse how the Estonian movement patterns have changed or what future trends are. We could set our plans more precisely on this basis. What are the plans for these future analyses?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U221	Thank you. First of all, I agree with your assessment of mobility and transport. As far as future trends are concerned, one of the principles of merging these agencies is that they are all dealing with the same thing. And all of this must be dealt with in an integrated way. The world has changed a lot, and movement has changed a lot. There is no doubt that it is not only necessary to analyse what is now, but to think about how to get to it and provide such mobility services that people want to move more and to be more comfortable with it. And you have to think not only about people, but about goods.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U222	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U223	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would still come back to the subject of that name. Mr Riina said that he felt that there was something bright and flying in that name. There are probably people who have different opinions again. You said in one of your replies that the name in this process, in your opinion, does not matter that there are much more important aspects to the merger of these agencies. I totally agree with that. However, the name is also important in this is identity; it is nature. Let us admit that it is still a very lean and unspeakable name for such an office. I'm just asking who proposed it. Who's the author of that name? It's like I want clarity because there's so much confusion around it. Where did that name come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U224	In order to merge these agencies, a steering group was set up, involving both the people of the Ministry and the people from the three posts to be merged. This steering group was also involved in the name. That's the name from this steering group. It's the one after the screening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U225	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U226	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! There are currently three fairly different functions, i.e. air, sea and land. Are there not certain fears that, when these functions are put together, some of them may be sidelined and, as a whole, may not be able to perform the tasks set out well. We've had a little bit of experience from earlier connections that if you put together a lot of different functions, somebody might just stay out of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U227	Thank you. This threat has also been very clearly recognised during this accession process. In order to reduce this fear, the seat of the head of the Commonwealth was chosen to be the Maritime Administration. Then the Maritime Administration doesn't feel distracted or somewhat less important in this process. All these aspects have been taken into account as much as possible so that no one feels sidetracked so that no one is forgotten.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U228	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I now ask for Kalev Kallo, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U229	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its regular meeting on Tuesday 22 September. In addition to the members of the committee, representatives from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications were invited to the debate, headed by Taavi Asa, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, as well as ministerial advisor Moonika Parksepp, Deputy Secretary General Ahti King of Transport, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Head of the Roads and Railways Department Ain Tatter. Under discussion, 236 draft laws of the Government of the Republic and other laws amending the Law (merging the Air Administration, Road Administration and Maritime Administration) were initiated by the Government of the Republic to send the debate to the first reading. First of all, the Minister made a comprehensive review, stressing that the merger between the Authority, the Road Administration and the Maritime Administration is based on more general principles of state reform, namely reducing duplication in public administrations, reducing the number of public authorities and improving the quality and availability of public services. The Commission's discussion followed, during which the members of the Commission asked a number of questions that could be grouped as follows: First of all, the members of the committee were interested in the position of deputy chancellor, which is to be created. It was asked whether this person was aware or whether there would be a competition, whether sufficient resources had been provided, as the post alone was not enough to ensure that the deputy secretary-general should also have a maritime education. Full answers were received to these questions. A competition for the selection of a person shall be announced once the law has been passed. As far as the resources are concerned, the Minister announced that, since maritime affairs will certainly be among the first three priorities for next year, there will be sufficient resources in the administration of this Vice-Chancellor. Should the Deputy Chancellor have a corresponding education? I quote the Minister's reply that the Vice-Chancellor of Maritime Affairs must have an understanding of what is happening in the maritime sector. Whether it is absolutely necessary to be a ship's captain is a question of its own. So what is happening in the maritime sector must be adequately understood by this Vice-Chancellor, there must be clarity on how to guide our maritime sector to the wider high seas. It is unlikely that such maritime experience is sufficient that he has been to Finland once, for example, by ferry. Members of the Commission were concerned that the process would not be too rapid. There was an interest in how the employees of the agencies to be merged feel about the process. We received the answer that the process is actually in the final stages. The preliminary work started at the beginning of the year and the working groups started already in June. The process has been going on for some time. In response to the question of how employees feel about everything, we learned that there was, of course, quite a confrontation at the beginning, but the more there have been joint meetings, explanations, the better people have come to understand everything and support has increased. It could also be said that the third group of questions dealt with the same subject that was the subject of an active discussion in this Chamber, namely the title of the new Common Authority, the Agency for Mobility. Since the Commission had received a letter from the Marine Language Advisory Board before its meeting, which found that the Agency was not well suited to the name of the Commonwealth, this issue was discussed. The members of the Commission pointed out, for example, that for years, the Olympic Committee has been promoting mobility, which is about people's mobility, but in this case it is about maritime, air and road transport. There's no way that word covers all this. Of course, the members of the Commission were also informed yesterday that the so-called statements that the Ministry has received on this matter are all in response to the questions that have been worded in such a way that it has been said that if you answer in this way, you can send a letter. This, of course, raises certain questions in the Members of the Commission, and it will certainly continue to deal with the name issue. It shall take the views of the competent language authorities and discuss them. As the Minister said here, in fact, the name of the new interagency is certainly not the most important in this whole process, but the name must certainly be logical and somehow unite all these modes of transport. Speaking here about the proposals of the Marine Language Advisory Board, the easiest option, of course, could be the Transport Board or also the Traffic Board, which is also a clear concept. Traffic involves both maritime, air and road traffic, but'mobility' has so far been more related to the mobility of people themselves. The Commission will certainly discuss this matter between the two readings. These were the main topics discussed by the members of the Commission. Procedural decisions were taken at the end of the Commission meeting. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 30 September (this decision was taken by consensus), secondly, to propose the termination of the first reading (the decision was also consensual), and thirdly to ask the Institute of the Estonian Language for an opinion on the suitability of the name of the joint agency. This decision was also consensual, so the Commission will also ask the Institute for a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U230	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U231	Thank you very much for the comprehensive review that took place in the Commission. When are the amendments expected? I share my fellow Members' opinion on this name and I hope that a more appropriate name will be found. The content is very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U232	On the basis of our Rules of Procedure, the Commission did not take a separate decision on the amendments. That period shall be fixed in accordance with the ordinary procedure and shall be communicated by the President. But it's ten working days.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U233	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 236. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 14 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U234	Let's keep going. Today's eighth item is the first reading of the draft Act 239 amending the VAT Act and the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U235	Thank you, Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I bring before you for the first reading the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The proposed amendments to the draft act relate to amendments to the VAT Directive which will enter into force on 1 July 2021. These amendments concern the taxation of e-commerce between Member States and the abolition of the exemption for imports of goods of up to EUR 22. In addition, there will be a procedure for adjusting the VAT liability in the case of unwarranted debts. More specifically, the amendments are as follows: The exemption for imports of small consignments of a value not exceeding EUR 22 shall be abolished. The aim of the amendment is to ensure equal treatment for businesses in the European Union, including, of course, Estonian entrepreneurs, compared to those in third countries engaged in entrepreneurship. Currently, European Union companies are in a worse position than non-EU companies, as there is no similar exemption within the European Union. In the case of imports of goods of low value up to EUR 150, different simplified means of payment of VAT will be introduced. The first is that the seller of the goods may choose to apply a special scheme which facilitates and accelerates the delivery of consignments to the contracting authorities. Once the special arrangements are in place, the seller of the goods collects the VAT due on the importation of the goods from the customer upon payment of the order. In that case, the customer of the goods shall not pay VAT at the time of importation. The seller of the goods shall declare the VAT collected from the subscribers on a monthly basis to the tax authorities. If the seller of the goods does not apply the special arrangements, the customer of the goods shall either complete the customs formalities relating to the import and pay the import VAT or use the service of the postal or courier service provider. Postal and courier operators can benefit from a special scheme allowing them to pay the import VAT collected from the subscribers on a monthly basis to the tax authorities. Secondly, the rules on the taxation of the sale of goods, i.e. distance selling, to the final consumer in another Member State are amended. This amendment harmonises the rules on taxation of distance sales within the European Union and abolishes the existing limits on distance sales, which are currently different in each Member State. Instead of the existing distance selling thresholds, a single threshold of EUR 10000 per year will be set for all countries. This means that if an undertaking has a distance sales turnover exceeding EUR 10000 per year, it will have to pay VAT in each Member State to which it sells goods at a distance. If distance sales are less than EUR 10000 per year, the trader pays VAT on distance sales in his country of residence. The aim is for companies to be treated equally and VAT to be collected by the Member State of consumption. Thirdly, the VAT obligation arising in another Member State will be simplified. The trader will be able to avail himself of a special scheme to meet the tax liability arising in another Member State with a view to facilitating cross-border compliance with the tax liability arising from the provision of services to the consumer and the transfer of goods. By applying the special scheme, an entrepreneur can meet the tax liability arising in another Member State in Estonia by declaring and paying the amount of VAT calculated on the turnover generated in another Member State to the Estonian tax authorities, who will transfer the amount of VAT declared and paid to the Member State concerned. Under the current rules, this possibility is limited to the cross-border provision of digital services. Fourthly, businesses can have the right to reduce the amount of VAT due in the event of unwarranted debts. The VAT obligation may be reduced if the buyer fails to pay part or all for the goods acquired or the services received. The following conditions must be met: the invoice must be issued; the claim must have been written down in the accounts and notified in writing to the customer of the goods or services; the claim must not have been disposed of; the time limit for payment of the invoice must have expired at least 12 months but not more than three years; the taxable person and the customer of the goods or services are not related persons. If the claim exceeds EUR 30000, an additional condition for the irreparable assessment of the claim is the court settlement which has entered into force. This brings the changes to a brief conclusion. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U236	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U237	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm just asking about the loss of VAT. These small packages, or what it was called, are supposed to be a lot of Chinese goods, right? You mentioned that one of the options is that the person who orders will start declaring and paying VAT himself. Does this involve a digital solution from the state, a simplified option, because these volumes are quite large? They may, of course, change, but have you thought-analyzed how to make it as easy as possible for the consumer, or do you not have to make it easy? How can possible additional bureaucracy be avoided?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U238	Yeah, well, we've been thinking, analyzing and looking for a solution. We think we've found it, too. Basically, we assume that this VAT will be collected and paid to the state by the supplier of the goods, he will then be Alibaba, Amazon or Estonian Post, through which the goods will be brought here. In fact, both the acquisition price of this commodity and the calculation of VAT on it are in one set, and then these big companies aren't really very much based on a month's accounting and pay that amount bang! to the state. Now a person who necessarily wants to declare VAT himself has the opportunity to complete and declare all customs formalities himself. But we can't imagine there's a lot of these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U239	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U240	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the preparation for the first reading at its meeting on 21 September of the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the Customs Act 239. The draft was presented by Mr Helme, Minister of Finance, as representative of the initiator. The draft takes over the amendments to the VAT Directive of the European Union, which will change the taxation of e-commerce between Member States and eliminate the exemption for imports of small consignments of up to EUR 22. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, today, and to propose that the first reading be closed; when the first reading is closed, to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 14 October at 5.15 p.m., and to appoint a rapporteur for the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U241	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 239. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 14 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U242	Let's keep going. Today's ninth item on the agenda is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Financial Corporation', submitted by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U243	Dear Riigikogu! Let's proceed with the next bill. This is a draft decision initiated by the Government of the Republic and proposed to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Financial Corporation (IFC) by 3102 shares. The decision of the Riigikogu is necessary pursuant to § 65 (10) of the Constitution of Estonia, which deals with the taking of property obligations on the state. Upon adoption of the decision, the Republic of Estonia undertakes an amount of USD 3102000 and an approximate amount of EUR 2,61 million. Contributions are planned between 2021 and 2025. The amount of the annual payment shall be EUR 522000. The amount in euro may vary depending on exchange rate fluctuations. In the sense of the state budget, this is a financing transaction. The aim of the IFC capital increase is to respond to the growing needs of the customer countries and the capital increase is part of a strategic vision implementation package agreed by the World Bank Group in 2018. The vision is that the banking group should strive for greater involvement of the private sector in the provision of services to all its customer countries. IFC is a private sector branch of the World Bank Group, founded by 31 countries in 1944 and now has 184 Member States. The IFC aims to help create new markets in developing countries together with the private sector. It is one of the world's largest development institutions, which is exclusively focused on the private sector of developing countries. The involvement of the private sector is indispensable both in reducing poverty and in ensuring overall economic well-being in the event of insufficient public resources. Since its creation, the IFC has amplified USD 2.6 billion of capital, which in turn has improved the business capacity of developing countries by USD 265 billion. The Republic of Estonia joined the IFC on 22 April 1992 and today we have 10934 shares worth USD 10.93 million. In euros, it is about 9.2 million. In the case of an increase in IFC's capital, it is also important that Estonia's paid-up capital is accounted for as our official development aid. Increasing the contribution of Estonia to development cooperation is an important part of Estonia's development cooperation and humanitarian aid development plan and development cooperation and humanitarian aid programme. Estonia has made an international commitment to try to increase the financing of official development aid to 0.30% of GNP by 2030. The increase in IFC's participation will contribute to this objective by also increasing its real participation in the Bank. Currently, Estonia's level of development aid is less than half of this target, or 0.15% of GNP. Thank you for your attention and I am happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U244	Thank you. Indeed, you have questions. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U245	Thank you. Mr. Helme! You have been very angry about any solidarity on the part of Estonia, about any international aid, especially in the case of exotic countries that are far from us, and even about such solidarity as the ESM, which you have despised to the bottom of your heart, even though it has been a support for our own economic environment. How have you resolved this contradiction in your soul now that you must report such drafts in a row? What do you think of this financial corporation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U246	Thank you. Yes, Greece may be exotic, but not so far away, okay? Yeah, I've been critical, of course. All kinds of globalistic programs and projects in my eyes do not find much praise. Maybe I'll mark a few things. Firstly, the decisions taken have been taken several years ago, as I pointed out. Secondly, however, it is a private-sector programme, i.e. lending, which is not non-refundable aid. It's important. Thirdly, it is an increase in the bank's participation in helping the private sector in developing countries. Well, we can, of course, discuss at length and in depth how effective it is or how much corruption there is, but it takes into account our development aid and, better somehow, even less effectively. I don't have much of a problem with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U247	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U248	Thank you. You still had a little problem with your answer. If you justify it as a private sector, it is not a justification. If you state that it is a repayable aid, i.e. an aid loan, then the ESM is also a repayable aid, and Greece will also pay it back. Greece's stability has so far been important to us, more important than that of distant countries. But explain again what you've done to overcome this reluctance. Where's the logic in the head?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U249	I do not understand at all why we are talking about the ESM, because these things are not absolutely related or comparable. But I will read again the sentences that I have already read during the presentation: 'The purpose of the IFC is to help create new markets in developing countries together with the private sector. It is one of the world's largest development institutions, which is exclusively focused on the private sector of developing countries. The involvement of the private sector is indispensable both for reducing poverty and for ensuring overall economic well-being. ' This has nothing to do with what was an ESM, this is something completely different.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U250	Thank you. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Dmitri Dmitriyev, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U251	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft, including on 21 September. The Commission wanted to clarify that if the capital increase takes place in three parts and Estonia does not participate directly in the third part, either the share of Estonia in terms of voting rights remains the same or is amended. It was said that the share of developing countries would increase. Our share is decreasing, but this is a very small decrease. It was also asked whether, if the aid was intended for the private market in developing countries, there would be a return. It was answered that nothing could be retrieved directly from there. If there's any revenue, it'll go back to the fund. Specification: USD 17 billion of undistributed profits are now converted into paid-up capital and this participation is distributed among countries. This is not what we pay in ourselves, and Estonia will receive 9500 shares of a total value of USD 9.5 million from this distribution. In conclusion, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 30 September, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 10 working days, i.e. 14 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U252	Thank you. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 237. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 14 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U253	Let's keep going. Today's last, tenth item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft Act 238 amending the Tax Exchange Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U254	Thank you, honourable Members of the Riigikogu and the President of the sitting. It is planned to postpone the deadlines for the reporting of cross-border schemes. This is a transposition of an amendment to the Administrative Cooperation Directive (2020/876). According to the Administrative Cooperation Directive, we need to collect and exchange information on cross-border aggressive tax planning schemes, schemes for hiding the real beneficiary of property and schemes that make it difficult to exchange bank accounts. In order to facilitate overcoming the economic difficulties caused by the specific situation caused by coronavir, the Member States of the European Union agreed at the beginning of the summer that the start of reporting on cross-border schemes could be delayed by six months. On this basis, the Tax Exchange Act should be amended to amend the time limits for the submission of schemes [on information]. There will be no substantive changes to this law. Under current law, tax advisors, banks and taxpayers should be able to provide regular information to tax authorities from 31 July onwards. According to the draft, the new deadline is 31 January 2021. Deferral of time limits does not change the period covered by the original reporting obligation; the information is simply to be provided at a later stage. Tax authorities will also exchange the information collected six months later, from April 2021 instead of October this year. The exceptional circumstances did not allow the need for a deferral of time to be foreseen in advance, and the amendments should therefore be implemented retroactively from 30 June 2020. The transposition of Directive 2020/876 is voluntary, but it is justified by allowing our taxpayers, banks and tax consulting companies to better prepare themselves for the reporting obligations ahead. By doing so, we will ensure that they are treated equally within the European Union, as most Member States either have already transposed the directive or are in the process of doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U255	Thank you. You have questions. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U256	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Does this amendment to the directive give the Member State the opportunity to postpone the deadline rather than oblige it? This is not a general postponement. It will certainly be implemented by many Member States; many will immediately share this information. There is no problem with bank information, there we are going to share information, as was the original deadline, but in the case of tax schemes, we want to postpone the deadline. Why is one area suitable for us and another area not suitable, needs to be postponed? Why are we capable of one thing and not in another?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U257	This, of course, is quite a technical matter. But this argument that many Member States are not really delaying it, as far as I am concerned, is not true. In fact, the problem is, on the contrary, that many Member States failed to implement this directive in substance and that these information exchange systems, which should start to apply across borders, simply do not work. There's no way we can exchange information the way we planned. If the law provides for this obligation, we will create a situation in which obligated parties cannot, in principle, fulfil their obligation. It doesn't make sense for us to create that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U258	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U259	Thank you. It got clearer, but I'll ask you again. If, in six months' time, we have to start distributing these tax schemes across Europe, not around the world, but across the European Union, how big can this production of Estonians, so-called lawyers and tax advisors, be in developing these tax schemes, in pieces? Do you have tens or hundreds or thousands of these? How big is this mass, how many schemes are produced in Estonia that deserve to be distributed across Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U260	Thank you. There's no way I can answer that question. That's what we'll find out afterwards. Somehow I don't think there's gonna be a lot of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U261	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U262	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed a draft of 238 first readings in preparation at its meeting on 21 September. The Minister introduced the contents of the draft, I am not going to repeat it. Just briefly, from the debate in the Commission, the Minister noted that the draft concerns reporting on cross-border schemes that allow aggressive tax planning, hiding the real beneficiary of the property or making it difficult to exchange bank accounts. The regulation aims to reduce tax fraud. The Minister also explained that the draft relates to the transposition of amendments to the Directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation and that, in order to facilitate overcoming economic difficulties, countries agreed at the beginning of the summer that the deadlines for the notification of previously agreed cross-border schemes could be postponed by half a year. The debate was limited to asking the speaker whether this change was due to the difficulty for some countries to implement what had been agreed on in time. The Minister replied that, yes, that is true, it was already known in the preparation of the original regulation that the implementation of the proposed deadlines could be difficult for some countries. That was the end of the debate. The Commission made consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda today, 30 September, and to propose that the first reading be closed. The deadline for submitting amendments was 5.15 p.m. on 14 October 2020. The speaker here was appointed waitress. Thank you for your attention. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-30_U263	Thank you, dear waitress. But there are no questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 238. The first reading is finished. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 14 October at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is over, the session is closed. Thank you. See you tomorrow!
