ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U2	We will begin the Monday session of the 18th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, it's like always handing over drafts and enquiries. I ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson to speak here on behalf of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U3	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft law amending the Labour Dispute Resolution Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. The draft has been transmitted electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U4	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and the Management Board decides on its procedure in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu and there is no 19. Now we come to this week's agenda. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu meeting on the plan to relaunch the European Union's economy. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I have added a political statement by Jüri Ratas to the agenda of today's sitting. Together with this amendment, I will vote on the approval of the 18th working week agenda of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 85 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U5	Before we start listening to the Prime Minister, I will remind you of the procedure. First, the Prime Minister's application is up to 15 minutes, then any member of the Riigikogu can ask the Prime Minister an oral question. After submitting a statement and answering questions, we will open negotiations, during which representatives of all political groups will be able to speak for 5 + 3 minutes. Prime Minister, I would like you to join us in this chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good journalists! Good listeners! First of all, let me congratulate the House here on the 100th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The countries of Europe and the rest of the world took unprecedented steps to combat the Coronavirus pandemic, including Estonia, of course. These steps had a very important impact on the functioning of the economy and on economic prospects, which have put many countries, sectors, businesses and people in a difficult position. Speaking about the economy and making forecasts, the focus of recent times is on extraordinarily high health statistics. Consumer expenditure, services, investment, industrial production, supply chains, capital flows and other economic indicators have significantly decreased to protect public health and human life. This has been accompanied by the biggest recession in the history of the European Union, which could be much deeper than in a crisis ten years ago. According to the European Commission, the economic downturn in the European Union will be 7.4% this year. Should the virus return in the autumn and bring back restrictive measures, the decline could reach 16%. In the case of Estonia, the Commission estimates a fall of 6.9%, which is below the average of the countries. Both our relative success in the eradication of the virus and the economic recovery measures that have already been implemented will play a role in this. According to Eesti Pank, there are four factors that affect our economy today: the decline in foreign demand and tourism, the restrictions imposed, the uncertainty about the future and the state's aid measures. According to the bank's latest estimate, the Estonian economy may fall by 10% compared to last year, and growth may temporarily reach 8.5% next year on exit from the crisis, the recession. Of course, there is currently a great deal of uncertainty in all forecasts, due to a rather high degree of ignorance and the possible new wave of the virus. What is certain is that recovery will be slow. In our case, this is, of course, influenced by the external environment, by the situation of our major trading partners in the region and in the European Union. The European economy, in turn, is hit hard by the global economy. The view of the short- and longer-term crisis must now be aimed at preventing the health crisis from becoming a long-term economic crisis. Many sectors experienced a very severe decline at the start of the crisis, others are affected by a certain reference. This is all the context that we need to take into account and what we need to respond to. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In these circumstances, the European Commission has put forward a proposal to support the relaunch of the European economy. Before that, the President of the Commission consulted the Member States thoroughly. In addition, together with the Latvian Prime Minister and the President of Lithuania, we also gave our common vision of the plan, which has been taken into account to a significant extent. Last Thursday, after the cabinet discussions, the government approved Estonia's views on the proposal. In its format, discussions between the Heads of State and Government of the European Union will start on Friday this week. Europe needs to find a fast and effective way to help all countries overcome the difficulties caused by the corona crisis. The government is ready to participate in one-off and time-limited support measures, with a total amount of EUR 750 billion as proposed by the Commission. Of this, 500 billion are in grants and 250 billion in credit facilities. As I said, this is a proposal. As a result, the share allocated to Estonia would increase by EUR 3.3 billion in the next European Union budget period, of which EUR 1.85 billion would be grants and the rest would be loans on favourable terms. That is more than half of the amount that we have to use in this budget period. The final details will, of course, be revealed only in the forthcoming discussions, but the launch of the plan will require unanimous support from all Member States, and consent must also be given by the European Parliament. It is my clear wish that we discuss these proposals and possible agreements before the honourable Riigikogu today and in the near future. During the process of shaping the positions of the government communicated to the Riigikogu, we had very in-depth discussions and also analysed the legal aspects of the re-launch plan. As a result, we found that the scheme and the decision on the own resources of the European Union comply with the Treaties on which the Union is founded. Article 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), which is the basis for the establishment of the re-launch plan, allows temporary and exceptional measures to be taken at Union level to assist Member States in re-launching the economy following the corona virus crisis. When borrowing, it ensures that the EU budget adheres to the rules on the balance of revenue and expenditure. Each Member State shall also repay the loan in proportion to its share of the Union's budget contributions and shall not assume the obligations of other States. There will certainly be people interested in the financial placement offered by the market and the loan will be favourable. The proposal does not change the nature of the European Union and does not entail new competences. Rather, the plan can be seen as an additional budget attached to the Union's long-term budget fund. A new solution to its financing has also been the creation of new or harmonised EU taxes or the introduction of own resources, i.e. budgetary revenues. This would be a political choice, but the Estonian Government does not support the introduction of new uniform taxes or changes to voting arrangements and considers the current agreements to be a good compromise. I refer to the Supreme Court ruling on the European Stability Mechanism, which has received much attention here. This solution found that membership of the European Union and the euro are constitutional values for Estonia. It is these values that we are talking about now. The legal assessment of the various European institutions is clear: in this case it is a proposal based on the correct legal basis. According to the state Chancellery and the lawyers of the ministries, the legal situation is also clear. The parallels between the European Union's long-term budget based on European law and the European Stability Mechanism based on international law are neither constitutionally nor legally justified. Of course, the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice is also important here, and the State Chancellery has decided to order an additional legal assessment. I believe that these opinions confirm what has already been said. However, as the proverb teaches, it is better to measure nine times and then cut. Honourable ambassadors! I would also like to point out that the implementation of the re-launch plan must be based on clear conditions and certainly cannot cover past loans or running costs. In times of crisis, when the economy is falling and debt is increasing, it is usually investment that is abandoned. The long-term EU budget and the recovery plan under discussion will help to keep the focus on the future and jointly agreed political priorities. In addition to competitiveness, this will be achieved by transforming the digital and green shift into a new growth strategy. These investments and reforms are largely dependent on future growth. If growth is low, the debt burden will also decrease more slowly. Investments, including those that we will carry out across Europe through the re-launching plan, can be seen as an opportunity to reduce the debt burden more vigorously in the near future by means of faster growth. Secondly, there is a clear need to draw up an investment plan by autumn. Estonia's investment priorities are reflected in our development needs, as reflected in the strategy "Estonia 2035." The changes and reforms needed to improve learning opportunities and extend people's lives, create a high quality living environment and preserve the natural environment are also envisaged. By favouring innovative approaches and, of course, high-tech solutions in planning these investments, we also support the development of our companies. According to Estonian researchers, for example, we have technological solutions that would significantly improve the resource efficiency of the housing fund and help to shift public transport to environmentally friendly technologies step by step. We must certainly support R &amp; D at national and company level, which will allow new competitive advantages to be found during the crisis and increase our productivity. We must certainly set out more specific priorities in close cooperation with the expert panel on economic recovery that will be set up. Honourable listeners! In the run-up to the crisis, the debt-to-debt ratio of EU governments was falling. At a peak of 87% in 2014, the average debt ratio fell to 78% of GDP by 2019. Of course, such an average was still far from the 60% rate provided for in the Stability and Growth Pact. The large difference between the Member States was also marked by Estonia's 8% on the one hand and Greece's 177% on the other. As a result, the ability of countries to respond to the crisis has also been different. As a result of economic recovery and crisis measures, the European Commission estimates that government debt will increase to 95% of GDP, and may increase further as the recession deepens. As a result of a direct crisis, debt reduction and the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact must be clearly European in focus. When reviewing the budgetary rules, it cannot be overlooked how high levels of Member States' debt threaten the financial sustainability of the Union as a whole, in particular of the euro area. In order to implement the European economic recovery plan, the funding period of the plan should be increased from 1.2% to 2% on a temporary basis. Of this, 0.2% is intended to maintain the size of the Union budget as a result of the fall in GDP and 0.6% for the re-launch plan. The sole purpose of the raising of own funds ceiling must be to maintain a favourable AAA rating when borrowing. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! For the Riigikogu and Estonia as a whole, the predictability of the costs to the state budget under the plan is very important. We want to know as accurately in advance as possible what costs this will entail for the state budget in the future. According to the current proposal and current estimates, Estonia's share in the repayment of the EUR 750 billion loan from the European Union will have to be around EUR 1 billion between 2028 and 2058. This represents around EUR 35 million per year. Of course, this is only clear in the course of negotiations, which will start this Friday. Therefore, in the second half of the year following negotiations at European Union level, the Government of the Republic will submit the re-launch plan to the Riigikogu for approval of the financing decision, i.e. the decision on the European Union's own resources. With such a weighty decision, a different approach would not be conceivable. I wish us constructive discussions and wise decisions. Power to Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U7	Thank you, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, now you have the opportunity to ask questions and the length of one question is one minute. First, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U8	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! Yes, discussions are necessary. I looked at the government's stance on the recovery plan. There are quite a few points here, which are still very populistly aimed at domestic consumption, and I would even say that they are not feasible within the framework of the existing European Commission recovery plan. I also do not believe that you are going there to call for a reform of the framework of the recovery plan. I would like to give an example of the government's view that the loan is reflected in Member States' indebtedness. First of all, the debt ratio is assessed by Eurostat, but this is why. But I am asking you what your concrete proposals are and what concrete measures are to make this feasible. Do you understand? I propose that, for example, a separate contract or guarantee agreement be concluded with each Member State for commitments, whatever. But what is your concrete proposal to achieve this government's view that the loan taken by the European Union is reflected in the Member States' indebtedness rather than scattered...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U10	... As a joint loan from the European Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U11	Thank you, Honourable Aivar Sõerd. Once again, we fully agree with you that such discussions are necessary. And, of course, they have a role to play today, in addition to the important work being done by the Committee on European Union Affairs. As I said at the end, in my opinion, there is no question of a final decision on funding , it has to come to the Riigikogu in any case. But in answer to your question, the government is looking at world-view decisions on the one hand and at the positions of our country on the other. What kind of options do we have? The possibility is that the contribution to the budget of the European Union should, in our view, be reflected today in the future repayment, and also, as I have told you, in the sovereign debt burden. If you ask what these tools or measures are to make this happen, the only way to achieve this is to find as many allies as possible at European Union level, who would feel the same way, and to make their views known, in my case at the European Union Council. As I said, these discussions will start on Friday this week and will most likely continue in July. It was only on Saturday that I had a phone conversation with the President of the European Commission about the re-launch plan. In my opinion, Estonia has always followed this direction in its budgetary policy approach, that we want transparency. Surely it is not our desire to hide this loan, I don't know, behind different rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U12	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U13	Thank you. I am pleased that the government has finally been able to shape such a cautiously supportive attitude, because exactly a week ago, Martin Helme presented his personal position at ECOFIN, and it was well known to be negative. But my question is that, at a time when the Estonian government is debating, whether it is a good thing or a bad thing, a number of decisions have been made in Europe and the distribution formula that has been obtained has become surprisingly unfavorable for Estonia. This is mainly due to the fact that, in addition to logical indicators such as GDP or population, past unemployment is also taken into account. Is it in any way understandable to you how 2015 unemployment is correlated with the current crisis? And how, if any, have you tried to influence this formula in a more favourable direction for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U14	Thank you. I guess I'll start with that political assessment, just as I do with your question. Yeah, I can't say we've rushed to say yes. On the contrary, as is customary for this government, these discussions have been serious. I remember about the same attack from last spring that Estonia does not agree with the climate neutrality of this European Union. Yes, indeed, Estonia took a good time off and told its European Union partners very honestly that we wanted to do an analysis and then we would come back to this issue. As you know, that decision was made last autumn. Here, too, there is no way to say that they have been such a matter of a single meeting. It has been said that, yes, we are carefully supporting it, as you said, and I do not think it is quite a bad thing to say. Of course, we are moving forward here with our positions, with our firm positions, which are important to the Estonian state, to our people and also to our budgetary policy. But yes, we have said that we support it. It's true. It's not worth blaming the Minister of Finance here either. It is true that there were no positions of the government at that point, and the meeting of finance ministers was first and foremost an opportunity to listen to the input for next week, now for this week. Now, as far as the key to distribution is concerned, Estonia has already dealt with this before the Commission's proposal came out, and there have been many different indicators in the discussion, starting with health indicators, for example. At the same time, it is understood that economic indicators must still be taken into account, as the crisis has had a very large impact in those countries where the number of people infected has not been so high. I'm sure we're still working on the distribution key. Now, the biggest amounts of the re-launch plan come from the Re-launch Fund and its distribution key has three components of equal weight: firstly population, secondly GDP per capita and thirdly unemployment. GDP per capita in particular will help to ensure that more money goes to poorer countries than to wealthier countries. When we are talking here about the benefits of Estonia, which you have pointed out in your question, I understand that you are measuring this benefit primarily financially or numerically, it can be said that this principle is useful to us. The third component of the distribution key, as I said, is unemployment over the last five years. Indeed, we have also had doubts about this key because it does not reflect the impact of the crisis. We have raised this issue and we will certainly continue to work on this distribution key. But we need to look here not only at the impact on Estonia and other Baltic countries, but also at all the countries of the European Union. If any of the components of the distribution key are more favourable to us than, for example, Latvia or Lithuania, would it be a result that we actually want at the end of the day if it meant more resources for some of the wealthier countries? It has also been said that more money could be channelled to those countries where the budget situation is very poor to countries with a high debt burden. Today, including thanks to our work, the distribution formula does not take account of this fact, because in this case we would reward unsustainable fiscal policies and our chances of obtaining money would be much lower. I would also like to point out to you, Mr Kõivas, that I believe that the whole package must be looked at. In the largest part of the re-launch plan, the separate re-launch fund, Estonia accounts for 0.3%, and I recall that the Estonian economy accounts for about 0.2% of the European Union's economy, which means that we will gain about 1.5 times more from this fund than we pay for it ourselves. If you look at the whole part of the support that is distributed through the various funds under the re-launch scheme according to the proposals of the Member States, the share of Estonia is approximately 0.46%. If we were to take out a loan from the market ourselves, which is also an alternative, it would certainly be more harmful for us. Yes, you have the right numbers, or what you said, that GDP is estimated at 2019, unemployment 2015/2019. The annual average of 5.7% for Estonia and 1 January 2019 for the population according to which there are 1324820 inhabitants in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U15	Honourable manager! Honourable Prime Minister! I have a question that may be a little difficult to answer right now, but at least I can think about it in the future. You're going to the summit on Friday and you have coordinated government positions, 13 points or how many of them were there. You'll be given a chance there, and you'll read these points, everyone will. And then they come quietly to you and they say, "What do you really want? Try to name one, two or three points, could it be the same formula for distribution, or is it some kind of sum of money that is missing somewhere? Have you thought about this, and do you at least have some kind of answer in mind that this is what we really want from this package?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U16	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U17	Thank you. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to say three points. If you don't mind, maybe I'll say four more. After all, we are based on what the Riigikogu has provided as input and which has been under serious discussion at the level of the European Union Affairs Commission and government. But we also have to stick to what has been in my speech, as I emphasised in the joint letter of the Prime Minister of Latvia, the President of Lithuania and myself. These main points and wishes are as follows: Item 1: A functioning internal market, an ambitious long-term EU budget and targeted financing to support the relaunch of the European economy is needed to relaunch the European economy. Point 2: The re-launch facility must be available to all Member States, it must be for a limited period of time, it must operate within the European Union legal framework and it must be closely linked to the long-term budget of the European Union. Point 3: The re-launch facility must support the green and digital transition, cross-border investments and reforms to make the European Union more resilient to future crises. And, if I may, point 4: Cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy are important for recovery from the crisis, there is a need to increase the cohesion policy budget and, we will continue to do so, to harmonise direct payments for agriculture. I think that, to a large extent, these are the four principles. I don't think that you are now asking specifically for some sort of one cent harvest, that it is vital for Estonia and that it is only this principle. Under these general principles, let it be green investment, be it the digital transition, be it cross-border investment, also specific projects, and certainly one of the concrete projects that is inside this relaunch plan is Rail Baltic. Personally, I have had a number of appointments, though, lately more on the phone, as I said, also on Saturday with the President of the European Commission, as part of this major project. So this is definitely one such signicant thing and, in my opinion, a very positive step. Speaking of this proposal today, and I would like to emphasise once again that it is only a proposal at European Union level, it is known that Rail Baltic has been marked there and that more than a billion more money has been introduced there. So here too, our explanations and requests have borne fruit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U18	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U19	Good manager! Prime Minister! Two things have been overlooked about the plan for relaunching Europe and the positions approved by the Estonian Government. First of all, as an outsider, you are imposing conditions and demands on them somewhere in Europe. You do not put forward these views in the way that you are looking for a solution for us here in Europe, and this attitude is a bit disturbing. Secondly, these views themselves are like a twisted ball of yarn. This is understandable and justified by the fact that, due to the opposition of the EKRE, you have had to be at the same time or to seek to be in favour and against at the same time. Well, it never works out well. My question is about the fourth point on which you emphasised today that Estonia does not support new own resources. At the same time, Estonia has been one of the most powerful forerunners in introducing a tax on carbon leakage to cheap electricity in Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U20	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U21	Why have you renounced the position of the Estonian Government so far, and the introduction of a carbon pollution tax on cheap Russian electricity is not justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U22	Thank you. Don't I understand you very well, dear Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, and I don't blame you at all for saying that this is like what you said? just a messed-up ball of yarn and being an outsider and the EKRE and all things together. We have discussed this very seriously at government level. I think there have been five to ten, ten. The question is whether, in principle, as I said in my speech, there is a wish to see if anyone today says no, this re-launch plan will not come at all. Estonia has said that we support this plan. This is, in my opinion, a very big and important decision. Of course, we have very clear principles on how we are going to these negotiations. I do not think that we should be in Brussels without any position, and that it does not matter to us what comes, we will support it in any case. I would also like to say before the Riigikogu, above all, maybe about the EKRE and the Fatherland, it is not nice for your party to bathe here that very serious work has been done. All three political parties and all ministers have done so. Of course, there have been very serious discussions and I cannot say in any way that they would have gone very easily. I mean, there's never been an investment volume like this before. Basically, we're talking 75% of the next MFF here, which needs to be realised even faster, to be used even faster than seven years. Now for the new own resources. We have really always been of the opinion that we do not support them. The principle of unanimity must be maintained here. If they are implemented, we can do this politically unanimously at European Union level, but of course this also requires consensus at national level. Now that you are introducing an infrastructure charge or a tax on electricity coming from a third country, this is one option. Here, too, there is not much of a single position in the European Union as a whole. But when it comes to own resources, theoretically, they're different on the table. If we take the Commission's ideas, we will see that there is an own resource for the emissions trading system and its amendment, a carbon tax mechanism, an own resource based on the activities of large companies and a new digital tax. I'm sure there's more. But yes, in terms of own resources, Estonia is certainly in favour of unanimity, and rather we think that the repayment should be concrete and clear, it should be through the contribution of the European Union to the budget of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U23	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U24	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! Good Prime Minister! Siim Kallas asked you a very good question: what does Estonia really want? But I don't think anyone understood anything about your answer. All this talk has so far gone a little bit of a racket, so as long as we get more money from Europe than we pay in, we have a great time in the European Union and we think that the European Union is great. But I'm asking you a simple question: you're telling us billions and trillions and all, but why should I believe what you're saying about billions if you can't honestly tell me why the Centre Party has probably accepted 50,000 euros as an illegal donation? The DA's office has initiated a criminal case. What do you say when all of a sudden those colleagues in Europe start asking you that Jüri, how long you're still prime minister, the criminal case is in progress, maybe you'll be resigning soon, why are we even discussing these aid packages with you? What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U25	Thank you. First of all, I would like to start with what you asked for, Mr Randpere, in connection with the question of Mr Kallas. You said you didn't understand my answer. I said that it is important for us to have a functioning internal market. I think it is very concretely understandable, for you certainly. I said that it is our wish that the relaunch be so ambitious that this programme supports the long-term European Union budget and targeted funding. I said that Estonia supports and attaches importance to the transition to a green and digital transformation. I said that we consider cross-border investments to be important. I also said to Mr Kallas that it was important for us to have a cohesion policy and a common agricultural policy, and I concluded my answer by saying that we have reiterated in our principles that we continue to see the need to harmonise direct payments for agriculture. I think that, if we were to be more specific, we would really start making rags, as you say. These have been very specific in Estonia over the years: cross-border investments, cross-border projects, direct subsidies for agriculture, green energy, digital transition, eID, etc. I don't know, do you want me to start counting on you how many kilometers of bike paths we want? Now, that's what I think is a rake, a total rake. Now, the question of the Centre Party of EUR 50000 fits here wonderfully. Of course, it has a very strong connection to it. My answer is one today: I am pleased that the state prosecutor's office has initiated the procedure. We have promised all the transparent support in this debate, and I hope for a solution as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U26	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! The re-launch plan will lead to an increase in the own resources ceiling to 2% of national production. This represents 2% instead of 1.2%. It is claimed that this is necessary for the European Commission to have a higher buffer for borrowing and, as we know, not all countries have ratings in the AAA class, around 40% of all participants. But since the term of the loan is 31 years and extends to a very distant future, within the period of 2028 to 2059, what gives you, Prime Minister, the assurance that this spectacular loan project will succeed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U28	Thank you. Yeah, the schedule we've been putting in front of us now really goes back 38 years today. But the real payment starts in 2028 and ends in 2058. What gives you faith in it? It certainly gives faith today, as I said in my speech, that the European Union has a very high rating of credit. it is a credit rating of the AAA. Estonia certainly has a very good rating, but Europe is even better. That's point one. As a second point, I would certainly like to say to you that we must also take into account that in the next European Union budget cycle, this will be the period from 2021 to 2027 our GDP, due to the fall of coronavir and the economic crisis. In order to maintain this level, it is necessary, in any case, to contribute more to it and to raise the limit, if we jointly want it in the European Union, from 1.2% to 1.4%. But yes, the basic thing is that money must be to hold a rating and implement the current programme. Implementation, as I said, is the responsibility of the countries themselves. I think that what is important for the European Union today is to keep and strengthen these good prospects in the fiscal market.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U29	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U30	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! The government approved Estonia's positions on 11 June, if I am not mistaken, and it was certainly the most important issue that day. I have been told that on the evening of the same day you had a rather important meeting at the House of Stenbock, attended by the Mayor of Tallinn, Mikhail Kõlvart, and Mikhail Korb, member of the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu, which lasted until about 8 a.m. I assume, of course, that this was linked to the plan to relaunch the European economy. You must have discussed and analysed together how this plan will help to restart Tallinn's economy, and in this case, of course, it was right to include the representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu in the discussion. I think it is good to involve the Riigikogu; it is important for transparency. Of course, another person thinks that maybe this meeting was related to the donation in question. But then I immediately wonder why the mayor of Tallinn was present there, because the mayor of Tallinn has nothing to do with this donation. Could you perhaps enlighten us on the contents of this meeting, the agenda? What feedback did the largest municipality of Estonia give you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U31	Thank you for the irony! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U32	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U33	Good President! Good Prime Minister! The re-launch plan is certainly very important for relaunching and stimulating the European economy, and a strong European economy is important for both Estonia and Europe at large. In this sense, I think it is important to reach an agreement that would be good for Europe and good for Estonia. You spoke as important points about Rail Baltic, climate goals, digitisation, also so that MFF could be used as soon as possible. At the same time, the actions of your government's ministers are slowing down rather than accelerating these processes. What is the ability and will of the government to make real use of these opportunities? Is there anything you can do to distract me?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U34	Thank you! I think the examples you picked out on your question are important to Estonia. These are certainly decisions of a very large scale, decisions of a long-term nature, decisions that contribute to the progress of the Estonian economy in the long term. As I said here before, it has been the custom of this government to discuss matters seriously and find opportunities and compromises. The three political parties have now outperformed for more than 12 months that we are able to find compromises on very complex issues. When we take the major and fundamental decisions of the last two weeks, which have gone through government level and which, in principle, concern the approval of the entire green agreement you have presented, the climate law and its approval, of course, the re-launch plan, I value all of them very highly. Now Rail from Baltic. It is known that a court settlement has come, which generally concerns the route from Toots to Häädemeeste. The establishment of this paragraph requires further assessments, in particular in the field of the environment, and needs to be carried out. Of course it takes its time. I have also met the people of Rail Baltic who do this every day in Estonia, and they claim that this should not call into question the final date. As I said in my presentation, it was not until Saturday that serious discussions took place with the European Commission on Rail Baltic and additional funding. It is known that at the moment there is a need for investment or, let's say, a deficit of EUR 1.5 to 2 billion. I very much hope that Estonia's explanations have resulted in us being able to move forward with this project. Now, for example, if we take what I mentioned earlier, the achievement of Europe-wide climate neutrality, I mean the 2050 target, we know that the investment volume involved in achieving climate neutrality alone was approximately 2/3 of Estonia's GDP. It's an SEI assessment. And it is estimated that the investment cost for the public sector would amount to EUR 6 billion. I think these are very big decisions. Apart from all politics for a moment, I actually consider them to be quite large decisions for Estonia and the government. I am also here before you today with the request that the Riigikogu be involved in this debate from the beginning. In the end, I think that this is actually only a decision of the Riigikogu. In my opinion, the Riigikogu must participate in dialogue in a good way all the time, and I am prepared to conduct this dialogue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U35	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U36	Thank you. After all, the government's views on this fund have been shaped by coalition partners from the beginning through the media, stabbing their stakes. As a result, however, these views are so full of viruses and antibodies that it is difficult to understand how sick this organism really is. There have already been some questions here today about how you will negotiate on this ground. I cannot comment on all the points, of course, but I will only ask about one thing. For example, it has been said here that, as requested by the coalition partner, the money taken from the fund should be reflected in the country's debt burden. Tell me how you will achieve this, whose authority it is, and how you would argue about it in Brussels. Did you really come to the government's understanding of the meaning of this point?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U37	Thank you. That's what Aivar Sõerd basically asked. Estonia must represent its position there, and that is what I am certainly willing and willing to do at the Council. I think it is very important to find allies precisely on this ideological principle that budgetary policy must be transparent so that we cannot get behind anything if we take on commitments for the future. I think it is extremely reasonable that these liabilities are reflected in the sovereign debt burden. Where do we end up with these discussions? I'm not such a big optimist that I think we'll agree on something Friday this week. Since this is a video conference, I think it is absolutely necessary for the Council to meet face-to-face too, and I believe that these meetings will take place no later than July.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U38	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Nine times you measure it and then you cut it out again and again you hear it coming out of your mouth. In fact, we must be in a very bad position in the country if we go after the Defence Forces budget. The management of the Defence Forces has already decided to shut themselves out of the Estonian sports system completely and to liquidate a sports group of 18 top athletes. Since this decision came unexpectedly, did it still be measured nine times? Will the whole of Europe go in the direction of reducing defence budgets?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U40	Yeah, thank you. I think there are three important aspects to this issue. One is defence capabilities and defence investments, which have always been important for Estonia. We have continued to show that Estonia is fulfilling its promises. As a NATO Member State, we are contributing more than 2% to defence expenditure for five or six years now, and this is, in my opinion, very important. If we bring defence to the level of the European Union, it is true that very many Member States are at the table at the NATO summit and it has been agreed that we need to increase the volume of defence investments. All countries must increase. I remember that a while ago, there were four countries that contributed 2%, including the United States, Great Britain and also Estonia. But already at the end of last year, when the last NATO summit was held, 3. On 31 December, there were nine countries or those with solid plans. Basically, all European countries have said that they will increase their defence costs in the coming years. How much they do this is, of course, for the countries themselves to decide, but this 2% principle is clearly in place and has not been abandoned. In my opinion, the second part of your question relates to public health and the third part to sport, that either the Estonian Defence Forces or the Defence Forces contribute adequately to athletes, keep athletes on the payroll and thereby enable them to fulfil their duties in the Estonian Defence Forces on the one hand, but also continue their professional activities: trainings, preparation for title competitions. In my opinion, the Estonian Defence Forces have been contributing to Estonian sport, Estonian athletes, whether through wrestling, shooting or rowing, but there are still examples. If you ask whether the general principle is to contribute less to sport at national level or to contribute less through a smaller defence budget, then no, I do not know that such decisions have been taken. The European Union's re-launch plan. Yes, I am not so directly able to point out this now, but it is of course important that, when we come to the European Union level, this military mobility, which has been mentioned, should receive more funding at European Union level. I do believe that this has been important for Estonia, and I very much hope that we will be able to see this military mobility again in the future budget of the European Union. Estonia has certainly been one of the strongest supporters of this particular integration of security and defence, including the European Union budget. I think that Estonia has been one of the strongest supporters of cooperation between NATO and the European Union, in our defence policy in general. We have said that it is important that the European Union also contributes with a broad-based approach, whether it is infrastructure or technological capacity. The creation of the European Defence Fund was one of the most important achievements of the Estonian Presidency. And I am pleased that this military mobility has actually been brought back into the rebooting plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U41	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U42	Thank you. Prime Minister! I would like to say, on the question of Aivar Sõerd and Jürgen Ligi, that what goes into the burden of debt will be decided by Eurostat, so maybe the political debate in this area is still not reasonable. You have said that you are taking something from the Riigikogu, perhaps it would be something to take with you. But now to my question. Of course, the idea of restarting is wider than just the one who gets how much money. This will certainly have a greater impact on European unity. However, the sums are large and, as you said in your speech, they must be used responsibly and with a view to the future. We have come here in earlier debates to the fact that both I and you are, as if, a great supporter of rail transport and also of tram projects. Has this been discussed at government level, or do you agree with me that this is now the place where, within the framework of Rail Baltic, we could quickly look at local stops, local trains and, for example, train connections around Tallinn or in remote areas, to create a proper investment plan that would significantly improve our infrastructure in the future and serve us for decades? Do you accept this idea and take it with you from here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U43	Thank you. Yes, of course. I think that when we are talking about restarting and saying that it is important that it contributes to green technology and green, environmentally friendly solutions, public transport, including rail transport, is certainly the case. Now that you're asking about national connections, yes, we've been betting on them. The extension of the same section of the Turbo railway to Turbo was one of the first steps of the last couple, if not three, the first unhappy, or for whom the lucky, 6.5 kilometers. I think that your idea, once we have spoken to you in the past, is not only limited to rail transport, but I believe that you are also interested in tram connections, especially in Tallinn. But let's say that the tram from the airport could go on in Rae rural municipality; right behind the border with Tallinn is a very large village of Peeter or Peeter. I think that creating a tram connection is, in any case, topical and important. Something has also been done, but, of course, little has been done to talk about a section of the same project in the centre of the city. I know there is a serious plan at the moment to get the tram connection to the port, but why not look at it in a much wider way, not only towards Rae Parish, but also towards Harku. There's been plans. Now for borrowing, which you also talked about. Let us be honest, the European Union has not taken a loan before it can pay subsidies, and the system that you are producing here cannot yet exist. It is clear that borrowing into loans is reflected and must be reflected in the debt burden of the State, because the principle should be that whoever takes the loan also pays back. The borrower will pay you back.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U44	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U45	Dear Vice-Chairman, Dear waitress, You got pretty detailed in naming all kinds of investment programs, all the way to the Turba railroad and Harku trams. But when we think about content, alongside investments in the digital and green sectors, for example, the tourism sector, which is 8% of GDP in Estonia, has already made large investments, and their use was basically forced to stop on 12 March. Now, however, people's sense of consumer security and habits have been hit hard, so that investments in this sector will not pay off until two years. If this programme is a support programme, is it also planned to support this sector in order to maintain investment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U46	Thank you. Well, it's a very powerful statement that the tourism sector was shut down or closed down on 12 March. You know as well as I do, which is why. It wasn't a wishful thinking that tourism would stop now, it was a corona virus. But what I think is positive is that it is safe to say that this week Europe was essentially reopened for movement. This is quite an important message in addition to what Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have done in cooperation, as well as Estonia and Finland. On the one hand, at the beginning of your question, you criticise the fact that I will respond to Mr Networker on the example of specific national projects that he is asking about, but then you will ask about the national tourism sector in the same way. I'd be happy to answer you. After all, the Riigikogu itself has provided 25 million euros with an additional budget to help, support, re-launch the tourism sector. EAS has made an advertisement or an invitation, launched an information campaign to rest this year in Estonia. I really hope that tourists from neighbouring countries will visit Estonia diligently, not to mention that our domestic tourism will get more momentum than it may have been in normal years, when the holiday alternatives have been found outside Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U47	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U48	Honourable Chairman! Good Prime Minister! It is polite to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu. Mr Kaljulaid, a good colleague, had a very relevant question. If, on the evening of the same day, a criminal case has been initiated concerning a forbidden donation to your party, relating to public utility policy in Tallinn, where, as you know, your own party is in power, the general secretary of your own party and the mayor of Tallinn are meeting in the dark, then hopefully you will understand that this raises questions in the public. The Estonian people have the right to know what you discussed with them in the dark of the night.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U49	Thank you, Mr. Juske! I understand you're a historian, but on the night of June 11, six or seven, we're not gonna be able to show night dim. It's light out, the sun's shining, it's all clear, there's no lightning. It is customary for us to see the leadership of the party on a regular basis. Sometimes we meet on an exceptional basis. I do not know how you are among the Social Democrats, but I believe that the meetings of the management are still regular, that the chairman and vice-chairmen of the party will be present. Yes, I really consider good cooperation between Tallinn and the state important. If you are talking about Mr Kõlvart, he is the vice-chairman of the party, he certainly has a broader view than only the head of one municipality. The party is still discussing its activities, which need to be discussed at this point. There were many important events on 11 June. Why I called the question ironic is understandable, because Kaljulaid is not interested in the re-launch plan, but is interested in what the prosecutor's office initiated. Understandable, politically I understand him, he's a skilled politician, he was in the Middle Party at different times, and he's definitely going to be a good politician among the Social Democrats too. I guess we discussed what the DA's office had decided that day about the Central Party. We discussed what we were doing and how to proceed. We talked about other matters. But, yes, this image of the darkness of the night is powerful, of course, I can't resist another image so powerful. I would like, if I may, in the light of Mr Juske's question, to return from the darkness of the night to the light of the day to the question of Annely Akkermann. Let us think for a moment about what I said to Estonia that it is important for us to have the internal market working. In fact, this is where we get our fundamental freedoms back in the European Union, the free movement of people. This is a very specific direction that I pointed out. And it is certainly possible to support the tourism sector from the recovery plan, but it is the decision of the country itself and we must continue to work towards it. I am thinking of structural instruments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U50	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U51	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! I'd like to ask you, too, about Maiskerikas OÜ and the purchase of masks, as well as about nose tips, whether there's some kind of snippet coded into this package, but I'm not gonna ask you, because I can also get upset that I'm ironic or I'm gonna ask you something inappropriate. I will then ask a very specific question: what is the probability that this package will be adopted in Europe this summer? After all, half July, the European Parliament is going on holiday. It's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U52	Yeah, it's a simple question, but it's very difficult to judge the future. I can judge on the basis of what happened with the European Union budget, MFF, before coronavir. In fact, there was a very clear collision between the countries, and MFF was seen in very different ways. We cannot deny that the same re-launch scheme is seen very differently from one country to another. There are countries that say that grants and such re-launch schemes should not be at all, if only loans. You're asking me for a probability percentage? I don't know. I can certainly say that the work is going on to find a solution. In July, work is being done closely, but it will certainly take time to implement, and it will certainly take time to carry out this plan as well. So if you ask whether or not it will be adopted in July, as I promised in my speech earlier, the Government of the Republic will present the decision to re-launch the plan of financing right here, before the honourable Riigikogu. If this decision should be mature in the Council to come here with it, then, of course, if this is a summer period, I will ask the Riigikogu. But on the basis of my experience, I think that these discussions will continue, it is not a matter of a month or two, it may last longer. However, Estonia is certainly ready to agree as soon as possible. Of course, we ourselves have specific and very clear positions on which we are based. But if we want to reach a compromise by the end of the day, we all have to give in to something. I do not believe that it will somehow stop behind Estonia. But I wouldn't be very optimistic about July.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U53	Prime Minister! No further questions for you. Thank you! I will now open the negotiations and the representatives of the political groups will get the floor. First, on behalf of the Group of the Reform Party, I would like to ask Kaja Kallas for a speech chair here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U54	Good manager! Prime Minister! Estonia is a small country with an open economy on the verge of the European Union, which is why our interest has always been a strong European Union. This means a strong and functioning internal market, as well as joint steps to deal with crises. If some European countries find it difficult, maintaining strength can also mean solidarity with other countries. The current European rescue package is a political decision that shows the sustainability of the European Union and helps to overcome this completely unexpected crisis. We can't lose sight of that big picture. Although the coalition agreement states that the government supports consistent European Union policies, in reality we see something else. We see ministers with weakening statements to the European Union, we see questions in the eyes of our European partners that Estonia's policies have changed. Playing ourselves outside the European Union as an outsider and talking about them there in Europe, not us here in Europe, weakening our position at the negotiating table. Why would others take us seriously when we're in observer status and we don't have our own skin in the game? The main steam of the government seems to go to one another, not to strive for better terms of the package. There's just not enough power for that. The key to the re-launch facility is partly the logical population and prosperity of the population, partly the non-excessive 2015-2019. This is not the case. The Estonian government should use its own reserve of power to negotiate more favourable conditions for Estonia than to run in different directions. However, as the government wants to please the pro-European voters of the two coalition parties as well as the anti-European supporters of one coalition party, it tries to stand both in favour and against it at the same time. The answer to Mr Kallas' simple question - what are we standing for in Europe? It didn't come, did it? The wheel mentioned three topics that we want to achieve. Firstly, a functioning internal market. Absolutely agree. But does this also mean that we are standing against the strongly growing protectionism imposed by the large Member States and which is clearly harmful to the small ones? Secondly, the aid should be available to all Member States. No one is arguing in the principle, but the needs associated with this crisis are different in the Member States and, if the countries in need are asking for it, the government does not agree. And thirdly, we need to support the green and digital transition. As a declaration, it is wonderful, but what are we really supporting if we do not, for example, support higher taxation of polluting electricity from third countries? All in all, it remains unclear what the government's views are. The statements and the conditions put forward are at times incompatible with each other. In addition, Jüri Ratas is saying one thing here, but we know that if other ministers, such as the Minister of Finance, go to represent Estonia at European Union level, then it is quite different. The Prime Minister does not have the strength to make his government speak with one voice outside Estonia. The coalition agreement says one thing, but the actions are completely different. If the Committee on European Union Affairs does not understand the government's positions on which the mandate is being asked, what is the possibility that the European Union's negotiating table will be able to express its views clearly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U55	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Anneli Oti Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The biggest civil crisis in Estonia, which has become re-independant, has largely been overcome by today, but this does not mean that the negative effects of all of the coronavir would have been over. We are entering the economic crisis step by step from the health crisis, but the priority has not changed. We must ensure the well-being of the country and of the people living here. The cooling of the economy and the bursting of the bubble have been discussed for a long time, but no one could really predict what happened. We face the challenge of finding a solution to ensure that the economy functions and turns to growth, so that people see as little as possible of the redundancies and businesses do not have to declare bankruptcies. This is the main issue today, which we need to find fast and sustainable measures to address. The welfare of the country and its people is a priority and, given the depth of the crisis, we cannot act on our own here. All countries around the world are facing the negative economic effects of coronavir. For many, this is a serious challenge, as the crisis beyond the last decade has not yet been fully overcome. The soft airbag, which would soften the current fall, includes a re-launch plan. The fall is coming, and no one has any illusions against it. Estonia is not alone in this crisis; behind us is the European Union. The aim of the European Union is to be together for good and for bad. It is therefore important to think together about how to come out of the corona crisis even stronger. To this end, we need an exceptionally strong desire for cooperation and solidarity. The previous economic crisis taught that the economy needs to be stimulated in order to avoid a long-term downturn and a sharp rise in unemployment. Successful were those countries that used loan money for investment and did not go down the path of purely cutbacks. Our economies are connected with other Member States, which is why our lives also depend on other countries of the European Union that are important partners to us. Already in April, the Commission came up with a EUR 540 billion package to support Europe's people and economy in a crisis situation. The fiscal and state aid rules were also made substantially more flexible in order to help Member States to stabilise the situation quickly. For example, the Commission approved state aid schemes for Estonia amounting to EUR 75,5 million to support our companies during the corona virus outbreak. We have acted quickly and have found a number of support measures. However, more is needed to achieve new and sustainable growth. At the end of May, the European Commission approved an economic recovery plan amounting to EUR 1.85 trillion. Of this, 750 billion are planned from the new 'Next Generation EU' economic recovery instrument to combat the consequences of the crisis, and the remaining 1.1 trillion will constitute a strengthened EU budget for the next seven years. Most of the EUR 500 billion of economic recovery funds are planned to be provided to Member States in the form of support and 250 billion in loans. As a result, the share allocated to Estonia would increase by 3.3 billion euros in the next European Union budget period, which is more than half of the amount that we have to use in the current budget period. The aid to Estonia from the fair changeover fund, which is important for Ida-Viru County, also grows almost six times. Together with Estonia's own contribution, this means 1.3 billion euros of support for the region. More important than the amount, the objective of the planned additional funding is to finance activities that will make Europe more competitive and stronger. The recovery plan proposed by the Commission has two new thematic priorities: the Green Agreement and a more digital Europe. At the same time, Member States are left relatively free to achieve the objectives. For Estonia, this is an opportunity to support residential renovation and the development of renewable energy, but it is also an opportunity for our universities to contribute to the development of new technologies, such as hydrogen technology, carbon capture and storage. We also have much to offer Europe to achieve a more digital society. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U57	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U58	Climate objectives remain a priority. We could take an even stronger step towards a greener planet and increase the share of renewable energy in Estonia's energy consumption. To this end, the deployment of wind, solar or bioenergy in buildings should be encouraged, among other things. With additional funding, we can also bring e-services and national IT solutions to a new level, making them as invisible and proactive as possible. In the area of health, we can create a modern eHealth Platform, which will be complemented by genetic research data and, if the user so wishes, by data collected from smart devices. E-health solutions must focus on disease prevention, the user gets invitations to research and information on potential health problems. The European ideal has always inspired optimism and faith in a better future. Although this ideal has been tested on all sides and the virus outbreak that hit us has done it in an extraordinary way, I hope we can hold that faith. We need to find solutions that respect the principles of the European Union and are responsible for the future to use additional funds in order to quickly relaunch the European Union's economy. We are facing major challenges, but we also call it a development process, which we can use wisely to secure a secure future in the short and long term. I wish the government a great deal of strength to do this. And I assure you that the Committee on European Union Affairs has also discussed this issue very thoroughly. Our members have been given the opportunity to ask a lot and to hold debates on this issue, so I wish them a lot of strength as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U59	Thank you. Indrek Saar, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U60	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, To start today, I will do what I have not had a reason for for for a long time ago. In fact, I commend the government. The decision taken by the government last week to approve the plan for relaunching Europe, together with Estonia's views, is undoubtedly worthy of recognition. All the more so since the Prime Minister managed to reach the position of the government in a situation where coalition partners at first glance went to do anything other than form a common position and create a possible platform for it. On the other hand, because the problem that has repeatedly sounded in our questions today, or the problem that is going to wind up in the Prime Minister's home party, naturally requires a lot of attention and does not allow us to focus on what is really important for Estonia. And so I want to congratulate all the parties in the government union who have spared the public an exhausting and, in many ways, a false coalition's internal struggle. The fact that the EKRE agreed on a long-standing European 'common loan' was a small surprise, as was the fact that no fire and tar were spit at the European Union this time. Is it really time to bring back the European Union flag to the White Hall of Toompea Castle? I hope that the coalition will now reach an agreement on this. Once again, the government's decision is to be welcomed. The proposed European recovery package will benefit both the European Union and Estonia. This gives us the opportunity to help the economy affected by the crisis to recover as soon as possible. The Social Democrats expressed their support for the aid package immediately after the proposal was made in early June. We said in the Bureau statement that Estonia's interests are a strong, united and competitive European Union. Only such a European Union will be able to respond effectively to crises and face global challenges so that people's well-being continues to be guaranteed. A united and strong Europe is undoubtedly in the interests of the Estonian economy, but also of security policy. It is not the case that, like the European Union budget, we will receive more support from the recovery package than we ourselves contribute to it. It is extremely sympathetic for the Socialists that the aid package has been made in the long term. The package proposed by the European Commission foresees that support for exiting the economic crisis should also focus on mitigating climate change and promoting innovation. These two are also Estonia's big goals. A fair green turn and a digital turn will also ensure that Europe's long-term competitiveness is improved globally. The rescue plan's focus is, of course, on economic recovery. But the European Union is a union of values, and the joint resolution of the crisis is a message of unity. I'm afraid there's a reason to come back to the EKRE. Unfortunately, one party to the Estonian Government has consistently opposed democracy, human rights and respect for the rule of law to European and European values. The foreign policy course that has brought Estonia success so far has also been repeatedly called into question. I'll give you an example of some of the Marvels. It was not a long time ago, less than a year ago, when in July 2019 the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, compared the European Union to the Soviet Union. And just a few weeks ago, Finance Minister Martin Helme questioned the gender pay gap, denying the need to address this serious problem, perhaps denying it at all. This is probably a relatively incomprehensible position in Europe. Martin Helme is also the main example of a fresh blood sample. His recent statement on the restoration of the death penalty has been a eloquent retreat in Europe so far, with the notion that human life is sacred. I am not going to read all the examples, of course, but one topical issue could be added: the behaviour of the coalition to reform the system of funding political parties when the plan was born in silence without consulting the opposition, not to mention that the institution concerned had been consulted. This is undoubtedly not among the best examples of European democracy. And, given that this goes hand in hand with the criminal case of the Prime Minister's party funding, of course, the case is particularly distinctive and certainly raises questions in our European partners as well. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U61	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U62	Unfortunately, our European allies are also monitoring the values highlighted by the members of the Estonian Government. If they are a screaming contradiction to European values, it will certainly not strengthen our position in the wider European Union or in the negotiations on a recovery plan. Unfortunately, it also raises some questions about the EKRE Jaa word for the rescue package. Is this the ultimate hypocrisy or the small rebirth? Time will tell. In any case, here I hope that our government will not act like good old Krylov-made characters swan, pike and cancer in the forthcoming negotiations at European level and will not end up drowning in our negotiations. Alongside the Prime Minister, the success of this process will certainly depend on the willingness of the rest of the government, especially the Minister of Finance, to actually achieve the result. Reaching the result is very important for Estonia and Europe, as we have repeatedly stated today. Of course, this must be a well-negotiated and effective process, so the government must work for it unambiguously. This is in Estonia's interest and I hope that the government, led by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, will be able to keep this in mind by conducting these negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U63	Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U64	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! If one nation values something above its freedom, it loses its freedom. And the irony is that if what he values higher is either comfort or money, he loses it. This thought, belonging to one of the beloved British writers, could briefly summarise the position of the Estonian Conservative People's Party on this subject. However, I will speak a little bit more, but I will not hide that the EKRE Group is sceptical about this whole rescue package. If both the package and the budget of the European Union for the next period are still at a relatively early stage in the negotiations, attention must be paid to the possible side effects that this process may have. We do not dispute that the European economy needs help and support now, but it is vital for us that the European Union's economic relaunch plan does not involve further federalisation. The more decision-making we give away Estonia to Brussels, the more our country and people will lose, even if we receive short-term financial benefits from it. The EKRE continues to believe that the European Union must and must remain an alliance of nation states, not a movement towards a Union state. More Europe does not automatically mean a stronger Europe, as our liberal colleagues tend to naive. The EKRE does not support the introduction of taxes on the European Union, nor does it support a situation in which we should start paying off debts from other countries or find ourselves in a situation where, for example, the principle of unanimity is abandoned in tax matters. These concerns have been taken into account today and, as I said, the European economy needs to be revived. The EKRE Group supports the government and wishes the Prime Minister strength to represent Estonia's positions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U65	Next, please speak on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland of Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Speaking of the re-launch plan proposed by the European Commission, it is positive that the European Commission is looking for solutions to re-launch the European economy in substance, to find the quickest opportunities and the best solutions to stabilise the economic situation as a result of the corona crisis, so that nothing happened in the long term in the first weeks of the corona crisis, when quite a number of fundamental freedoms and fundamental principles of the European Union did not exist, national borders were closed, people's movement over the borders prevented. This situation does not correspond to the interests of any Member State individually or to the European Union as a whole. It is certainly in our interest that the Fatherland Party emphasizes this, the European Union, which operates together, is also the best solution in the current crisis. However, it is unwise, as some previous speakers have said here, to express Estonia's position clearly in the form 'Yes without conditions' or 'No without conditions'. In today's situation, where there are more questions than answers and Estonia has to offer its solutions, present proposals during the negotiations and as a result shape its final position, it would be extremely foolish to go out with a rigid jaa or rigid no. So the government's established position, with a number of positions that support the initiative of the European Commission, but also drew attention to a large number of risks, which is shared by the Isamaa Party, is a very balanced position with which Estonia is currently going out. Listening to this debate, these questions and answers in this Chamber today, it became clear to me that in this matter, both coalition and opposition parties are essentially in close proximity. The issues raised by the opposition, which were more acute, concerned precisely those points which are also called into question by the government's position and which are seen as a risk or threat to our common future and to the sustainable economy of the European Union. I'm trying to mark them very briefly. One thing is undoubtedly that the package proposed must be in line with the European Union's Treaties, which means the principle of unanimity, that all Member States should agree to it, and that no one's interests should be harmed to such an extent that they cannot come along with it. The central European power and the decision-making powers of the Member States should be balanced and no uniform pan-European taxes should be introduced in the future. And certainly the best expression of solidarity is not a joint loan that could lead to the creation of a very centralised common budget for the European Union. The investments offered must certainly support innovation, support the competitiveness of companies operating in the European Union and also support investment in clean technologies. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U67	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U68	As an important signal for sustainable management and the future, it is necessary for both Member States and economic operators to have all commitments declared in a transparent manner. It is not possible to understand them unambiguously at the moment. And the best practice is also not that the sources of cover for the package are not sufficiently precisely defined for the loans taken and the so-called grants to be paid out, which will have to be repaid in the future over decades. In addition, there are a number of other issues that concern, for example, the extent to which this package will be free for Member States, the right to self-determination, and what will become of the rules on state aid, whether they will stop temporarily and how will it affect the competitiveness of businesses? It is also possible to mention the European Union's common agricultural policy, for which support for the rural development plan is provided for as well as a small part of the additional funding for direct payments, but unfortunately there is no harmonisation of aid inequalities. The existing proportions are maintained, which means that inequalities are increasing in absolute terms. So it makes perfect sense to go to the negotiating table with constructive proposals, to be open to negotiations, to seek allies in our positions and to shape a final position during the negotiations. Of course, in the European Commission's proposal, there is also, in my opinion, one very, very clever proposal, which is very difficult for the Member States to reject. If I now express myself in a simplified and embossed way, it can be said that there is something being offered to everyone here so that it would be impossible to vote against. Southern European countries will receive cheap loans under the European Union's common guarantee, as South European countries themselves will not receive it due to their high loan burden. Moreover, they do not have to declare all these commitments and this is very appropriate for these countries. It is said to the countries of Eastern Europe that you will receive much more than you have to bail out, so why should you not approve this package? And the major core countries of the European Union will certainly like the growing protectionism that they will win economically. So, for everyone, something. It is very difficult to say no to such a package or to resist such temptation. However, our common interest is that this plan will be the best solution and that the features of the Estonian state will also be represented in it with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U69	Thank you. All the political groups have received the floor and we will conclude the negotiations. I thank the Prime Minister for informing the Riigikogu and answering questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U70	Let's move on to our agenda. Today's second item is the third reading of the draft law 142 on plant protection law, organic farming law, state fees law and plant reproductive and plant variety rights law. We have the opportunity to open negotiations and the representatives of the political groups can take the floor. However, since there is no wish to speak, the negotiations are off. The commission has proposed a final vote of 142 on the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Law on Plant Protection, the Law on organic farming, the Law on state fees and the Law on Plant Reproduction and the Amendment of Plant Variety Rights, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 91 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U71	Next, we will go to the decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank of Estonia, which is the first reading of the draft decision 209. I'll remind you of the procedure. First of all, Aivar Koka, the chairman of the commission, is a presentation, which lasts up to 20 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu can then ask the rapporteur one oral question, the length of which is one minute. Following speeches by the representatives of the political groups, there will be a final vote. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, to speak here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U72	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Commission discussed a draft decision appointing the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank 209 to prepare for this first reading at its meeting on 8 June. The Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, which consists of the Chairman, representatives of the political groups of the Riigikogu and experts in the field. The formation of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is based on the principle that each political group of the Riigikogu presents one of its members and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board presents four experts in the field. Pursuant to Article 8 (1) of the Eesti Pank Act, the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank are appointed by the Riigikogu on a proposal from the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U73	Ladies and gentlemen, please buzz a bit more slowly, otherwise the speaker will not be heard at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U74	Pursuant to paragraph 11 of the same section, the Riigikogu Group submits to the Monetary Commission the name of the member of the Riigikogu representing the Group on the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, with his written consent and written confirmation that he meets the requirements of this Act for a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Pursuant to Article 8 (12) of the Eesti Pank Act, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank shall submit to the Monetary Commission the names of the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, together with their written consent and written confirmation that they meet the requirements laid down in this Act for members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The committee examined the proposals of both the political groups and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and decided to send the decision to the Riigikogu to appoint the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank by today's date and to appoint a spokesperson as rapporteur. The political groups of the Riigikogu have presented Jaanus Karilaiu, Ivari Padari, Sven Sester, Andres Sut and Jaak Valge as candidates for the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and the chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has presented Kaie Keremi, Enn Listra, Rein Minka and Urmas Varblas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U75	Thank you, dear waitress. Looks like you don't have any questions. But it is now possible for the political groups to present their reports. I would first like to ask the representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Anti Polandmets, to speak here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you a brief overview of our proposed candidate, Jaak White. Jaak Valge has studied biology and geography at the University of Tartu and at the Department of History. He has completed his studies at Stockholm University and several other foreign universities. Jaak Valge has defended his doctoral thesis in 2003 and has taught economic history, the history of globalisation, the history of Marxism and history demography as a lecturer. His main research topics have been in the economic field. After 2005, he has also focused on social and political history. White has published nine monographs and about 60 scientific articles. Among other things, he has studied the development of the views of Estonian Marxist intellectuals, on which he has written the monograph Red I, for which he received the award of the best monograph of Tallinn University and the Lennart Meri Prize for Research. As we know, forecasting the future will be the more successful the better the analysis of the past will be. Jaak White, however, has not only dealt with the analysis of the past, but as a demography researcher, he is also an excellent present evaluator. I call for his support!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U77	Does Jürgen Ligi have a question? A procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U78	Yeah, I have a procedural question. Will all political groups have a word on Jaak White?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U79	Yes, all political groups have the opportunity to speak, and all political groups, if they so wish, can also speak of Mr Jaak White. But I don't think that's what I want, and there's no more callers. The negotiations are therefore closed. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on a draft decision of 209. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank of Estonia 209. I would like to ask everyone to state their point of view. 91 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. I take this opportunity to congratulate all the new members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U80	The next, fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Rescue Act and the Arms Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like to ask Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U81	Good Chairman! Good guardians of the Republic! I also take this opportunity to congratulate all new members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. My warm greetings to all of you! We have now reached the point where we have a second reading in the process of processing the law rejected by the President. My colleague is already looking at whether I allow myself a free interpretation, but I think that since our agenda today is long and obviously all of you have already been familiar with our procedural decisions and you know that we had eight amendments, which the Commission took seven into account, I will only read the mandatory part that must always be read out. On 8 June, the Legal Affairs Committee met with Marek Jürgenson, Uno Kaskpeit, Kert Kingo, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomast, and Commission officials Raini Laid and Linnar Liivamägi. Among those invited were Deputy Chancellor of Justice of the Ministry of Justice's Legal Policy Kai Härmand, Deputy Secretary General Viola Murd, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Helen Ojamaa-Muru, Adviser to the Information Monitoring Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Kätlin Alvela, Director General of the Alarm Centre, and Epp-Mare Kukemelk, Head of Communication of the Public Relations Department of the Riigikogu. Another important point is our procedural decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 15 June 2020. We reached a consensus on this issue by a large majority, among those who were still present at the sitting. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the second reading and to refer the draft to the third reading if the second reading is completed, with the third reading being held the day after tomorrow, 17 June 2020, and a final vote. Again we reached consensus among those present: Marek Jürgenson, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Kert Kingo, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Urve Tiidus and Vilja Toomas. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U82	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. To clarify, each member of the Riigikogu may ask two questions and the length of the question shall be one minute. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U83	Thank you. Good waitress! Handling sensitive personal data is a serious issue. A large part of the credibility of Estonia's e-governance is based on the fact that if, for example, e-health contains an epidemic or diagnosis, if a doctor looks at it, there will be a trace of it. During the corona crisis, the anonymous Health Board, which specifically looked at these data and did exactly what it did with this information, was also included among the observers of the doctors and health professionals. My question is this: are you convinced that during this crisis, the rules currently applicable in Estonia to the viewing, handling and forwarding of sensitive personal data were followed in detail?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U84	Thank you! This is a really good and very meaningful question, but unfortunately it is a little late. We did not address this issue in the Commission and from this point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U85	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U86	Thank you. Good waitress! I am convinced that the Commission also addressed in substance what we want to change or what the coalition wants to do with the President's proposal. But I did not hear in your report for a gram of time what those amendments contained in themselves and which no one in the Commission was in favour of or was not in favour of. All you said was that one amendment was rejected and the rest were taken into account. It is still a matter of concern who can access the health data and how we solve the situation that there was a contradiction with the Constitution. Your report could have included this. Perhaps you can explain to us what the substantive changes we are going to decide about here. Has the President's reproach been removed or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U87	Thank you! To put it simply, yes, the President's accused, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, has become legally clear and the greatest fears have already been buried. Here was the real question of how we get this emergency aid... Now, of course, I have to look at exactly how that legal wording was. I'm just embarrassed, I'd like to perform this jovially and evaluate how we worked in the committee, while my colleagues say, "Stay in the frame, try to be restrained." We had eight amendments, the last three of which simply touched on the date. I can read them again, but then there's no need for anyone to report back to this room that he has read skills, too. But I'll come to you, good Hanno, and we'll get the first amendment right away. Where did we have him? So, there was a debate on the crisis information service, and it has now been defined more precisely for the sake of legal clarity. If necessary, I can read the explanation: 'The Rescue Act defines the concept of crisis information service. In the case of a crisis information service, the processing of information is divided into two parts: firstly, the provision of information and codes of conduct, and secondly, the provision of information to close relatives on the basis of a request for information about suspected victims. In order to provide information and codes of conduct for the crisis information service, you can order a public authority or a local authority which has concluded a contract with the PSAP. If there is a need to provide information about suspected victims of a crisis, only four institutions can make such a decision within the limits of their competence: Health Board, Rescue Board, Police and Border Guard Board or Defence Police Department. The amendment also provides an open list of events which are considered to be exceptional and for which it is possible to decide to provide data on suspected victims to the four institutions mentioned in the previous sentence. " It was a change. With regard to the second amendment, I can also just explain to you that, once again, there was a wish to complement the information related to the crisis. Then came the proposal of the Reform Party, which was not supported and whose explanation also referred to the words of Ülle Madise. Then there was a change in the call footage from the PSAP. Amendment 5 we have... [[Browse papers.]] Now, here's the proposal from the Reform Party. Fourth, fifth, yes! In order to be legally clear, the amendment... (rebreathing papers.) The law introduces as an amendment all the regulation initially intended to be presented at the level of the ministerial regulation. This was related to the complaint of the President of the Republic to the legislator that the movement and availability of health data should be regulated at law level. And that's how it became regulated. As I said, the other three changes were simply related to the dates when something was going to happen. I hope that the answer was exhaustive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U88	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The extension of access to sensitive personal data was primarily justified during the initial phase of the draft procedure by the so-called "extraordinary situation" that we had and ended. Did the Commission also mention whether, for once, during an emergency, there was a need for this possible amendment to the law? Would it have been necessary, for once during this emergency, to use this provision of the law or not? And secondly, you said at first that you had reached a consensus in the vast majority. Wasn't that a real consensus? Was there anything missing that you spoke in the overwhelming majority of the consensus? Or was it a consensus?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U90	Thank you! I'll start at the back. Perhaps this was an arbitrary interpretation of me, but the point was that, at the beginning of the debate, when all the members of the Commission were present, but in the meantime one member left, there was consensus among those left. Therefore, the opinion of the person who no longer participated in the final phase of the sitting shall not be fixed in the documents. However, in order to make things clearer for the researchers of the annals of history, I spoke of a dominant consensus that sounds softening. I don't want to blame anyone for not wanting to take part in this interesting discussion, but he took on other important day-to-day activities of a statesman or a wife. But now this first question, and it's interesting. Yes, indeed, we learned that no one asked where his loved one was at the time. But this law was actually brought to the Riigikogu in December of last year, and then, looking forward, it could be seen that there would be situations where there would be some kind of event, which would simply lead to a very large number of people being hospitalised, being taken to hospitals, and other people would start looking for them. During our recent pandemic, there were not enough people to be hospitalized. Everyone close did know. In this regard, it was a good and happy case. But you want peace, then prepare for war, there is one such proverb. Laws must also be foresightful, there may be other cases that are much larger and more extensive. And I think it's all right about that. But it may also indicate that today the situation is that if a person is discharged from the hospital, in about five days' time, the data will start moving. I think that the work on this is obviously going on, so how is it possible? But the main fears that I thought were up in the committee, after all, were calmed down. In health records, no volunteer will resort to a very arbitrary approach and there will be no misuse of information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U91	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U92	Thank you. I think that the main concern has not been resolved because there is a fundamental dispute as to whether or not to disclose health data to anyone other than doctors and, of course, to the person himself. This is actually the argument we've been having here all along. And I am personally deeply convinced that this should not be done. We can also find other solutions without anyone being allowed access to the health data. This authorisation was not granted by the Office of Defence Resources in the form that they wanted to be, which could still be justified in any way, and has not, over time, received it by others who have asked for access. Did you go through this whole process in the Commission? We know that it is going to take five days for the epidemics to go digital and become visible. Did you go through this whole process in the Commission and you have the conviction in the Commission that this thing actually works, even if it is not really needed? What does this process really look like, knowing that not all people want to disclose health data to their loved ones, including the fact that they are in hospital or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U93	Thank you! We went through the subject in essence, everyone could listen to what Viola and Kai had to say. Was that convincing? I cannot tell you how the various Members of the Commission felt about this. I was thinking along, I got it. I can draw on personal experience here, I cannot say what the other members of the Commission did. But I realized it was the first time we had an emergency. And I can imagine looking at the examples that have been added to the emergency list and perhaps also based on this case, when people got snowed in Padaorus and their batteries were drained of what panic parents might have had at the time, that we had something to learn from them. I still do not believe that people who are employees of either the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Social Affairs and who volunteer their help to the Alert Centre and who already have access to all these data should be carrying out some sort of tasks other than those for which they have volunteered while volunteering at the Alert Centre. So we went through these issues, and I personally didn't get scared about it, that there is now some kind of gray area somewhere that someone who is close to their data every day can use so that, for example, a familiar journalist calls and says that I'm it and that, tell me if this person has, for example, ludomania. I didn't see that problem. And that third moment of question, good Hanno, one little moment you had there. This was about a person refusing to disclose his or her data. Now, on this subject, maybe I'm the weakest link here to talk. In fact, I was also made with a corona test, and then a familiar medic looked, but he couldn't find my data. I don't know, maybe there was some kind of trouble. We saw other things, but that information wasn't up there. Then he said he found it somewhere else. Maybe it was on my computer. He said I was negative, even though I'm a little bit of a positive person myself. But the fact that some people say that some family members shouldn't know about them is a right. I don't think I've locked my records. However, I do know of cases where people want to know that if, for example, they are in a new life together, but for some reason still remain married, this new life partner, not the old one, would still be informed. That's an opportunity for a human being. Thus, no one violates the rights of others by having their personal data or hospital records locked up for their loved ones. No matter what his reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U94	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U95	Thank you. Good waitress! Everyone's personal identification code is actually quite easy to find in public data and therefore an interested person can make these inquiries about each person. I see it as a potential threat. After all, when a person actually gets into a hospital, it is possible to tell who his loved ones gets the information and to define the circle. The rest of us can get it either through him or not at all. There may also be cases where close people - mothers, fathers, children - do not communicate with each other or for some reason do not want another person to receive their sensitive personal data. Moreover, giving such data by telephone is not suitable for the 21st century, especially in Estonia. My question is this: did you really think carefully about this option so that the person can determine who gets the information and who doesn't, as it has done before, when he gets to the hospital?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U96	Thank you, good question! What I'm saying is, of course, this right will remain with these people. But shouldn't that be done until you get to the hospital? A lot of people who get hospitalized may be in some kind of affectation, and as a doctor, for example, I wouldn't take their wish literally. Like when you're in the emergency department and you say you don't want to give anyone information. No, it's not funny! Well, let's say you've got one limb off in a situation like this, you're not very adequate, you're still focused on trying to get the limb back. You focus on that, and then you tell me that I don't want to give anyone my data. Now, I'm kind of out of my mind. There's an accident, you see this person, and you need to do some kind of medical activity, I'm saying I'm very weak in medicine, for example, you need to do a blood transfusion or something else pretty fast, or someone says you have to do something. You take what you need from the car's first aid cabinet and give him an injection. But you'd like to know if this person is allergic to this drug or not. I think at a time like this, this information could actually be available. For example, when the ambulance says we'll be there in eight minutes, in the meantime, give me first aid. That's my position, you know? That's my point of view. However, in the Commission, we did, in fact, stick to the fact that if a person wants to lock his personal data, he can lock them down. And as this crisis showed, no one ever asked for this data in five days. However, when it comes to the fact that a journalist should want to play with a person's personal identification number in order to get some data, he has a much simpler way of playing nurse and just going there at the moment when the doctor is somewhere else and getting the data much easier. But I don't think journalists go that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U97	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Today we are in a situation that I find very absurd, to say the least. Even a professional doctor working at the Medical Committee for Professionals at the Defence Resources Board will not have access to the subject's medical records unless authorised by the subject himself. My question is this: aren't there any weight in giving volunteers working at the Alarm Centre more rights than the professional doctor working at the Defence Resources Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U99	Thank you! That's not what we discussed. Really. We did not discuss this because we did not grant or extend these rights to anyone. You and I probably imagine that if a person calls and says he's the one, and if his father or mother are taken to a hospital at this point, no one's going to read his medical records or anything on the phone. It was emergency information and the idea of this phone line. He won't be able to access any more personal data. This has been said to us repeatedly in the Commission; it simply does not see them. Technically, you only see as much as you need. But I admit that the same person, going to his regular job the next day and being exposed to these data, maybe you can look at that data. But I expect these people to have been properly controlled and they know that the information entrusted to them must be handled responsibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U100	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U101	Thank you. First of all, questions concerning people's fundamental rights require legal accuracy in the rule of law and, consequently, your relatively tasteless clowns on this subject are, frankly, completely inappropriate. Now the question. You say in § 1 (12) (24) of the draft by the Committee on Legal Affairs that the Alert Centre will have the opportunity to inherit human data from the health information system. The last sentence of the same provision states that when providing a crisis information service, the Alert Centre does not process the health data of the suspected victim. Could you explain to the Commission what data is still stored in the health information system, which is not health data, but which is requested? Whether a person is being treated or not may also be a very delicate question, and it certainly concerns his or her health. What led the Commission to conclude that these are not health data?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U102	Thank you! That's a pretty good question now. You can see that you've been Minister of Social Affairs, you've seen these beautiful complex constructions, which are actually, let's say, for a medic only a sip-slup, very simple, isn't it? If I would now say my position, presenting it as the Commission's position, I would cross the borders that have been set for me. No, in the vast majority of cases, the Commission did not see a very big problem after the specialists in the field had answered what they saw and what they did not see. We didn't get a class excursion like this so that we could actually be delivered and unplugged and shown what we could see and what we couldn't see. As good-faith people, we realized that it's just an initial fire extinguisher if a person wants to know where his next of kin is, he's been taken to a hospital or he's not. He'll get that information. What kind of blood type he has, or anything else, shouldn't be seen on a voluntary basis. And accordingly, further information is not available to the volunteer because the computer system is set up as such.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U103	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Given the question of my previous colleague, I am quite amazed that you did not discuss these matters. So how could you decide that? When you said earlier that the four agencies would be granted more rights, I think you forgot the most important rights of the person concerned. One of the biggest topics of discussion that we are currently debating is, in fact, whether anyone could make further inquiries without the consent of the affected person and, if so, who. The question is, in fact, that in the current system, we are able to identify a contact person to whom we can call, which means that there is a close proximity or a trustee. There's an additional chance when we're consciously in a hospital or emergency department. What kind of fucking problem do we really solve? Who needs it? What you're saying is that people can shut down personal data on their health means that this system, built on trust, can explode at some point. It would be a pity for the whole country's health development.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U105	Thank you! So, what are we discussing? We are discussing this matter so that we have a legal basis for people who come to the PSAP voluntarily to contribute, because the PSAP may be overloaded and people there also need rest. There will be people who already have the right to process this data, but they will volunteer to work at the Alert Center. There should be a legal basis for this, so that no one will say afterwards that it is voluntary and how this thing is still legally fixed. We're here to create legal clarity. Now we're probably giving them the right to volunteer as much information as they need. And by the way, good Urmas, I'm telling you, I actually trust that if there's a system on the computer, there's no more information. I want to tell you a simple story. I became unemployed, but I did not qualify at the unemployment fund because it turned out that the limited company of which I was a member of the management board was simply in liquidation at the Tartu County Court and everything. Next, there was nothing a person could do about the unemployment fund. When this matter was resolved, however, it turned out that I was a member of the administrative council of the Kristiine district of Tallinn and that I was all at work and could no longer receive support. I had to take the paper, you know, about not getting paid from there, and the income isn't continuous. The computer just wouldn't let it go any further. I tried to trade the people who handled these things with the third one. I also learned that, for example, the Tallinn Council still presents a salary certificate to the city councillors. But where have wage negotiations taken place? Tell me why I should believe that if a person now wants to see the medical records at the PSAP, he'll see more of them. I think these systems are working. I.T. guys wouldn't just pay off these things if it turned out the system was a sleazy-logadi and you could still go in and surf and change your personal data from the back door. I think this system is pretty reliable. And it's still forward-looking. Just because the first wave of the epidemic has gone so well by now doesn't mean that life is a flower or that there can be no unexpected. That's what we need to prepare for. And I don't think those people who volunteer would go in there with some other idea to somehow take advantage of that legal hole or opening in person or in the interests of someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U106	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U107	Thank you, good manager. The original version of this draft contained one very fundamental and dangerous change affecting human health data. In future situations of special and crisis, you wanted to open your health and personal data regardless of the person's will, information about which doctor he or she has visited and which health institution he or she has been in. You wanted to open this information to third parties. You have now stated in your report that, even after the adoption of this law, a person will continue to have the right to decide who accesses his data and who will not be able to access it. I'm asking you to explain how it is. Does this bill mean that in the future, the person will decide to whom he or she will be informed about his or her stay or visit to a doctor, and if he or she decides that it can be transmitted to only one person, then no one else will be able to continue to receive information about it, or will it still be open in the future, and the information about which doctor he or she has visited and which hospital he or she has been in will also be available to third parties? Which way is it? Please explain this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U108	Thank you, good question! I say exactly as it is everywhere: in the case of this emergency or crisis telephone, only questions can be asked as to whether a person has been hospitalised or not. And that's exactly how that information comes out of there when it's checked out of the hospital. Now, as far as I'm concerned, at this point, all of our data is probably public, even though I don't know how to look at my own data. But I haven't turned them off either. The right to classify your data to a person remains unless he wants someone else to be his contact. Nobody takes that right away from anybody. In the case of emergency or crisis telephones, we simply give the right that, if there are volunteers there, they could simply ask for yes, just ask whether this and this person are placed in hospital or not. But if you want to find out who's at the doctor's office and somewhere else, this kind of data will be much easier for you to get from hospitals because there's no such control as the bill currently shows for the emergency phone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U109	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You say you create legal clarity. I'm glad you're making legal clarity. The President said by sending this bill back that it would not be possible for him to declare it either because the law does not exactly state what the crisis situation is. Did you discuss this in the Commission? And when you discussed, how did you define the crisis situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U111	Thank you! Well, we should have it here in the documents. Here's the crisis information, that's what we had a discussion about... [[Browse in papers.]] According to my memory, we did not define the crisis situation as such, we defined crisis information rather, the debate was still about what the crisis information service is. In another law, we needed to fix what is an emergency and what is an emergency, and obviously there must be some other legislation. The place of concern was the information provided during the crisis, i.e. crisis information and crisis information service, i.e. the transmission of information by emergency telephone to the people who need it, so that when the locals call and ask. We in the Commission did not start looking for the definition of the crisis, and now, if I recall a little bit, at first reading, I said that the person who can define the crisis situation was that, didn't he? It is likely that there would be some kind of quite high recognition, because this phenomenon has not yet been defined in quite a number of countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U112	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable performer! I generously offered last time that I could explain to you what health-related personal data meant and why they would be protected, but you didn't have time. Yeah, well, that's that. Today, unfortunately, I see that you have everything based on faith and love and that those people who go there know everything. I have two questions. What kind of data are you looking for if you don't get this data from this system, because there's no data in the digital file, as long as a person isn't checked out of the hospital or dead? The volunteer does not receive this information from there. But once he gets into that system, that's where he's gonna get all the other data. I am telling you, for example, that as a doctor, I must not go to the digital lock of someone who has not signed up for my appointment and who has not come to see me. I can't go. But a volunteer who is randomly elected to a phone is given that right by law. I'd say it's actually a very big cheat on our people right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U114	I think I remembered correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U115	Thank you, good question! I'll start at the back. I believe that when you say that you do not have the right to go to the digital lock of a person if he has not come to your reception. But I don't understand why you think it's possible for a volunteer to go to his digital lock when we were confirmed to us! The fact that a person does not receive more data from the health information system. What you have referred to and to which we have repeatedly pointed here is that no phone calls came in during the recent emergency period and that this is the situation today, let it be said that the President did not send the law back because, listen, only within five days, after a person is discharged from the hospital, gets information, etc., but the question was simply that volunteers should be given legal rights in case someone calls and asks. Perhaps they would then have replied at that point that, yes, we do not currently have these data, try somewhere else to ask, because they did not get any more rights. Someone's gonna, you know, suspect the same thing, and that's why this thing came back here. Now it was written in the draft law that, yes, volunteers can only say that if someone asks, and then questions will be made to determine whether the questioner is a relative, whether or not he or she is entitled to it. I assume that there will also be a person who has said that all my questions will be answered, for example, by this particular contact person. But we didn't discuss whether the volunteer can only see that Tarmo Kruusimäe and the telephone number are coming after him and that he should turn to him with these questions. We really didn't discuss that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U116	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U117	Thank you. However, in order to ensure that the readers of the verbatim do not get the wrong impression, it has to be said that health data are not public in Estonia. They are very strictly protected and, indeed, almost no one can access them except the doctor. A man can get away with it if he can. It's true, of course, your claim that if he doesn't know how, he can't do it. But the data isn't public. Now the question. When you answered the first question, you said so, but it's a question of fact and principle, you can't just go around it like that. Does point 24 mean that the fact of being in hospital at the same time does not, in the Commission's view, form part of the health record? What is the basis for such a definition? Secondly, with regard to the circle of people who receive this information and how they are discovered in their decision, the President said that issues of fundamental rights must be decided by the legislator itself and not delegated the corresponding broad decision-making powers to the executive. That was one reason why this law was not declared. How is this settled now? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U118	Well, I can only look here at what we had in the round of questions and answers, right, what I have in this protocol. [[He's looking in the papers.]] Well, I'm sticking to that answer right now. I say these are such good and precise questions. I will, of course, immediately ask you why you did not ask such questions about these specific matters by your representative. Now, looking back, we are talking calmly, but at the time, we still had a little more of this emotion in the Commission. Those specific things that could have been regulated by this draft would, in my opinion, have made sense to regulate there. I think that hindsight is an exact science, and I think there are some shortcomings in this law, perhaps yet, because if it is looked at, there will be something else that cannot be regulated. But the main thing that this good idea was written about is that I can respond by including in the law, as an amendment, all the regulation that was originally proposed at the level of the ministerial regulation. I read this text in the minutes: 'This was the subject of the President of the Republic's complaint to the legislator that information on the movement and availability of health data should be regulated at the level of the law. Viola Murd said that the regulation originally planned at the level of the regulation was brought to the level of the law with the aim of giving even more certainty as to how the procedure works. V.Murd once again pointed out that the four institutions that can decide to provide information to the victim are the Health Board, the Rescue Board, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police Department. They can also decide that information will not be issued in the interests of criminal proceedings or identification. The Minister of the Interior will make a regulation on who is close and how exactly the detection procedure will take place. If there is any doubt that the person asking for information is not close to the victim, verification questions will be submitted and data will also be checked in the population register. Kai Härmand said that the proportionality requirement is not only in the law, but also in the general data protection regulation, where the weighing procedure has been clarified. The weighing procedure is now also in this law and there is also regulation on questioning. Compliance with these procedures shall be subject to monitoring. The General Supervisory Body is, in particular, the Data Protection Inspectorate, and the Chancellor of Justice and, in the event of a specific dispute, the court can supervise. The Ministry of Social Affairs does not withdraw from the decision-making process because the health information system is managed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Ministry of Social Affairs checks not only work on an ad hoc basis, but this decision-making process is carried out through technical solutions. ' Was that enough? I suppose it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U119	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U120	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Once before us, you question the trustworthiness of volunteers, once you trust them more than you trust doctors. You said earlier that volunteers are so reliable that they process data. Please tell me in which section of the bill it says that volunteers process data. I didn't notice a place like that. And when I listen here to what you are saying, more and more I have the idea that I will definitely have to interrupt the second reading of this draft today and go on in the autumn, because I, as well as some other members of the Commission, have noticed that there are questionable issues here. But please answer my question: where is it said that volunteers process data?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U121	Thank you! What's very peculiar is that I'm being tried to put words in my mouth that I've never spoken. I have never said that volunteers are unreliable. Rather, I have just wanted to say that why we do not trust those people who are close to their data and who are now volunteering for an emergency phone to help people who may not be able to perform this task in a purely physical way. Now they say it's like I'm having second thoughts. Rather, other people in this hall think that volunteers have come in from somewhere on the street. And that was the main problem. Yeah, if you take it literally, maybe they'll come in from the street. But crisis situations have been practiced, and there are people who have been trained to do so, and now their actions simply need to be legalised. Therefore, I am really puzzled, I am trying to speak and protect precisely those people who are engaged in volunteering and who find a way to contribute. These fears, how other people think that the word 'optional' means something inhuman, so we say that we did not discuss it in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Tarmo! You obviously have not understood that we are not discussing whether volunteers are good or bad, that is not essential in this debate. But it is very important how personal data is handled and subject to whose permission they are handled. I don't understand what kind of problem we're solving. If we look at today's health care system, we have the knowledge that these trusted persons, or the trustworthy person to whom we can call and signal which hospital I am in, are in the system. If someone doesn't have it for some reason, it's possible to improve the system and make sure it's there. But it really doesn't make sense to have one, two or three people open the whole system at one point. This is not a sensible approach. I'm trying to figure out what kind of problem you really want to solve with this. It doesn't make sense, you know, it doesn't make sense. The argument is not about whether the volunteer rescuers or rescue officers are reliable or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U123	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U124	Thank you, good Urmas! I totally agree with you, let's not just focus on volunteers and volunteering. I'm telling you the truth, yes, in the case of health records, I was wrong, and a good co-worker named Evgeni just added that these data are protected, you have to log in to your digital history, and then you see them. I couldn't do it, it was a total superspace for me when I first went there. Well, then you just have to live so there's nothing wrong with you and you don't have to go through that system all the time and surf. That's life. I've only had some broken bones and some nasty things, and I'm aware of them, and I don't have any other damage to my health. This problem, which we really wanted to solve, concerns the same fear that everyone was talking about as if this data were now open. Mr Pevkur spoke, and Mr Evgeni has also spoken, about how many organisations have wanted access to these data and how they have not been given access to it, and that is why volunteers are not given access to it. We here are aware that we can determine for ourselves who will be called, but I think that perhaps the vast majority of our republic's citizens do not know that they have the right to appoint a contact person. They don't even know it! And they're in good faith that if anything happens to them, people will know who to call and where to get help or the information they need. Today, it turns out, it is not possible for this necessary information to be communicated by volunteers except to tell where a person is in the hospital. I have this belief that volunteering, being on call, can't log in to digital stories. I believe the people who told me that. Well, why should I think that there is now some sort of back door for volunteers, through which they get more rights and there is no trace of it? The light here says he can't watch people's digital stories, but the volunteer can, and there's no trace of it. Well, I don't really want to believe it when the officials just told us it wasn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U125	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U126	Thank you. Good fellow Commissionman! If I'm listening to you, it seems to me that we've been to some different committee meetings. I recall what was the biggest problem. The problem was when the corona crisis arose and we had a crisis hotline of 1247 or how the combination was. It was as if we had to legitimise that such a phone was officially available, although afterwards, if it has been working for several months, I ask whether it needs to be legalised in this way or not. Okay, that's different. But you are not correctly reflecting the Commission's protocol in the sense that the Commission did not agree on the issue of access to these health records by volunteers or by those who reply on this phone. We did not agree on that. We still voted 5:4, that's actually true. It was just the coalition that needed to get through this bill that voted the exact same way as if there hadn't been anything in the meantime. And the truth is, in fact, these officials from the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior also agreed that it is not possible to obtain this information right now...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U127	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U128	...for the hours that actually exist. This information, where a person is in the hospital, does not come within the hours that they tried to explain to us at the Commission all the time. My simple question is, could you dispel this protocol a little bit more precisely and reflect these differences in the way we voted that...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U130	... half of the Commission still remained on one side and on the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U131	Thank you, good question! It's a little complicated now, I'll tell you the truth. I'm sorry! This was because in some respects there were no 5: 4, but there was a abstention. He abstained, yes, which means that he did not support it, but he did not object either. We did not have such fundamental battles, but when the person became clear about the nature of the matter, but he felt that he did not want to support it very much, he did not give a vote of support and chose the third option, which was that he abstained. Therefore, such a very large, let us say, ideological contradiction was not in my view. I see in it, however, that we are preparing for something bigger, which we want to take in on the basis of our best knowledge and perhaps in line with the example of other countries. And then it was just that some people had a mistrust that maybe these data were being abused, and others had that kind of knowledge, and I'm just saying from my own point of view, which I represented, that we have to be prepared for the worst and how we can do something about it. Whether information is received within five days and how well this system is working now is perhaps not so important. But I say I'm a little more liberal on these issues, because I think that if some kind of accident happens to me, I don't care who gets this information, as long as I keep my heart beating, so that people can take the decisions they need to keep me alive. That's what I'm saying. The crisis is all sorts of things, and maybe in this committee there was a problem that we only focused on one nuance of who and how much data we can get. I was convinced that while the President had already sent it back, the Ministry of Justice, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Ministry of the Interior had carried out their analyses and, accordingly, changes. It is not a local authority where an official simply does not answer your questions, simply refuses to answer, but here these things are still taken to the level that the Commission, no matter how it starts, already has some kind of legal knowledge. That is why perhaps the coalition remained, say, the belief that we were so united and, at the same time, perhaps that many of the members of the Commission who were in opposition also abstained. They understood that this proposal was made in good faith, that it would go better, not that they were fundamentally opposed. As such, I might describe these current situations. And, of course, I understand that the position proposed by the coalition members to vote on the third amendment was not very good news for the members of the Reform Party. But I don't think that's what the emergency phone really wanted to do and all those laws. I don't think it was such a big world-view problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U132	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is possible to identify the contact person to whom I allow my health data to be transmitted. I have understood that, if so, data will not be supplied to third parties using this possible provision of the law. However, as you hinted, for various reasons very few people have identified a contact person in their digital history, and I think that in 90% of cases people will only say the contact person when they arrive at the hospital, because that is what they are asked for. And this information certainly does not reach the online health information system, which means that if the Alert Centre or 1247 goes to search the Health Information System, it will actually transmit the data to persons who have not been authorised by the patient. This is a very serious violation of the patient's right to decide to transmit health data to. In my opinion, this is a very big problem, and that alone is why the reading of this draft should be interrupted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U134	Thank you! Of course, I do not support your proposal to interrupt reading the bill, but it is simply your position and I am prepared to fight for the right to submit it. But what I'm trying to say is that I don't see a solution that we should now employ an information operator in hospitals who, when a person comes to the hospital and says that my contact person is this and that, will immediately enter it into the online system. We know how we have this workforce and other things in hospitals, but on Monday, there will be a person who will enter. In addition to having other work to do, it will take time for the information to come, as we learned only when a person is discharged from the hospital will it reach his digital history. At this point, I could, of course, say that if you and I could make it clear to all of our constituents that they have an unmistakable right to make contact in digital history, we have actually done something better than we have at the moment when we are discussing whether this bill is bad or not. I think you too believe that it is through these debates that we inform people of what rights they have, and in this connection perhaps we also urge those who are volunteering and who may be tempted, but I do not believe that they are going to help, so that they know that it is being given quite a lot of attention. But the priority is still to save lives, because human life is irreparable. And we're preparing for what we don't really know. Today we have this knowledge that we were not very well prepared for this crisis, even though we had been preparing for it on a monthly basis for years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U135	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U136	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I do not know whether you understand the weight of the issue we are discussing here and the weight of each of your words that you have spoken from the remote. The information about which doctor the person has been to, what hospital he has been in contains a significant amount of very sensitive and delicate information about human health. You have responded today that this information will be disclosed to third parties in the future when this bill is adopted and will be published in an emergency regardless of the will of the individual. My question is this: how is the identity of the person being identified in the case of the caller to whom this information is issued? Does the caller who asks for information have to submit, for example, a video or any other reproduction form of his document? What is the mechanism considered by the Committee on Legal Affairs to be sufficient to establish identity?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U137	Thank you! This question has been running through many times, and I say it is also a good question. They have their own procedure, yes, they have questions. But since the sessions of the Riigikogu are public, we are not going to present them here. Neither were we asked the questions that will be learned. They have control questions. I remember asking if these questions were too difficult. For example, when a child asks for his or her parents, he or she is 9 years old and may be in an affective state. They answered it somewhere in the protocol there is that no, these questions aren't very complicated, about what's your father's car number. But maybe that's the question you're asking, what's your dad's car number or brand? They have a questionnaire worked out, and I believe it is reliable. However, as far as the digital document is concerned, it was not under discussion as a means of identification. I know, yeah, the notaries are already doing remote identification, but should it be used there and in this difficult situation? I would just like to point out that if a person, above all a child, is in an affective state, how much he understands it, although I realise that young people are more IT-conscious in every position than we are, and can be identified with these things much faster than perhaps we, who are not so agile. But what I'm trying to say is that no one's been anywhere to see the doctors that they're volunteering for. This ball was kicked away, nobody can go into that digital story like that. This is a frequently asked question, and it has been repeatedly answered that they see only what hospital a person is placed in. They can't even know how often a person goes to a dentist, not to mention the fears about the data that maybe many people think they're going to see. All the more so that it is so often a frequently asked question just because it is not allowed. And I don't know, maybe after that, the doctors won't see it anymore, they'll turn it off even more, which means that if a person hasn't been to the reception, the doctor will look at him and can only guess what's wrong with him because we're going too far with the shut-down of his personal data. That's my point of view. I think that if so far the volunteer has not had the opportunity to go up there and look at the whole digital story of another person, then I believe that he can only provide this limited information. Now the question is whether it should even be an emergency telephone function. But why is this emergency phone even being created? Still, in order to help people, because 112 was overburdened with previous figures, it was also overburdened with corona. In that good faith, 1247 were made. Yeah, one phone, 24 hours, seven days a week.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U138	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I, too, now ask a frequently asked question. Why don't you tell us exactly where this law is going to apply? I understand that this is what you have repeatedly said in an emergency situation, but what other situations than the emergency situation are the situations where this law will apply and the volunteers can ask for our health data?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U140	Thank you! The law will apply to the general situation when it is declared. But the information phone will be triggered only by the decision of the Health Board. I have understood that it does not need to be kept operational on a daily basis unless there are reasons for doing so. And since we've all given these major powers to the Health Board right now, the Health Board says that now the situation is that we need to start this phone number again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U141	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U142	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! You've used the expression on several occasions that human lives need to be saved. I really hope that even without this law, doctors will save people's lives and it does not matter to them whether the system is indicated, to whom to report. They're gonna save life, and then they're gonna deal with information and everything. It seems to me that there are more questions than answers to this bill. You've also brought in the fact that you can call the kids, you can call the elderly, whoever you want. I very much hope that volunteers will not tell a child, for example, that his mother is dead.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U143	Thank you, good question! I think that the people who work on this phone line have been properly trained and that those who apply and qualify as volunteers and who are entrusted with this job will understand how old the caller is and, according to this training, they will not tell the child that do not wait for the mother to come home, the mother is dead. They're not making such jokes, they're actually quite delicate. I think that the police, and everywhere else, are still going to rely on who is the addressee to pass on such sad reports. I have not completed this training. And the same thing, this saving lives has gone without me having these cases, but I've been watching medical shows from time to time, which maybe to a very large extent is fiction, but maybe not. There's always a question of what's wrong with him, where we get the information, and that's a matter of seconds. From what you're saying, it's the impression that the doctor is just gonna see that, uh, the person, so, and he's gonna go for repairs. You still need to know some kind of background system, like whether he's allergic to something or something else. However, the way in which the medical team receives this information has nothing to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U144	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable performer! Really, the doctors will get the information, I dare say it, because I've been working as a doctor for decades. But little of that, actually, I'm saying it's simple. When a person goes to a hospital or is brought there, it is not the doctor who will write this contact person, but the data will be fixed in an elementary manner. Personal data is recorded, they're all there. And the institution where the person is is contacted, if necessary, with the same contact person. It may also provide several contact persons. Secondly, you say that it is simply not possible for a volunteer to receive data without going to a digital lock. He sees the whole picture or nothing. And the third thing I want to say is that we actually have to be grateful to our people who have trusted the country so far to have their data put into this digital database. We just sat down with the French ambassador, and he said they're asking questions and you say yes, they will. But how if there is no database? So where do you find out? I beg you, think and go and see how this works. I understand you're unhappy because you don't understand this. Yeah, that's actually it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U146	Thank you! I'll get it. To be honest, it has never occurred to me to surf and see what is written in the digital stories of my coworkers in order to understand this system. And as far as I understand these debates here, the interest in this data set is known within a wide range of activities, mainly for economic reasons. We are talking at the moment only about providing one type of information in a crisis situation when 112 is overridden by the fact that there would be another supporting crisis information service next to it, which would respond to where the hospital person is. Now, the question is, maybe it doesn't work. My question, however, is this: is 1247 really a completely pointless thing done where people went completely pointlessly to answer calls and, more importantly, where people called completely pointlessly and asked completely pointless questions about their own affairs? I, by the way, called there and got help. I think that why I called there is not an issue that I should share with the entire Estonian people right now. But, as you can see, it has not reached the yellow press, either, with the information about why Tarmo Kruusimäe called there. So I can say that this system is reliable, and I have reason to believe that it is a good initiative that is working.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U147	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U148	Honourable waitress! You were talking about a lot of different things, like you said yourself, which isn't relevant. I'm just reading a sentence from this law that maybe takes some of the tension off: 'When providing the Crisis Information Service, the Alert Centre doesn't process the health data of the suspected victim. " He cannot share them because it is said that he does not process them. Here is also the explanation for this point, there is a restriction that the health data of the suspected victim will not be processed. I think it would be really nice if you read these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U149	Thank you, that's a good question! I have tried as far as possible to avoid a stencil reading, because I understand that everyone has been familiar with this bill. At the same time, some may ask these frequently asked questions - repeating is the mother of wisdom. I'm talking about asking the officials how it is, and they told us it wasn't. People's ambassadors don't even want to believe it, and they keep asking. I answer humanly again, because when people humanly say that they don't believe, and they say that as if volunteers now have the opportunity to retrieve this data, which we call processing, I say that is not the case. I gave an example here of the unemployment fund case, which simply could not be dealt with further, because the bird was written there somewhere. I think that this system also works in the case of a crisis hotline. If it works differently, it would be a good thing if someone from the people would prove otherwise, but that is not the question today. Today, it is a question of something else, or fears. Some fear that this monster may have been built just so that someone can process personal data there. At the same time, we know that our social affairs ministers and justice ministers have stood for the fact that these data will not be retrieved by third parties who would like to take advantage of them for the benefit of their own endeavours. We have been able to protect this data so far, and I see no reason why today's ministers should do something different to damage what has been kept for a long time. Good Mikhail, maybe it's just people's mistrust that if I or we are not in government, others will tear down everything they've built so far, because nothing is sacred to them. But in fact, all these people have made a vow here, and I think they're still working in good-right. All the more so since the President sent this bill back and said that there was such a barrage, this information has been processed, and the people of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior have adjusted it so that the President can now declare this law, because we have made a good bill. All the more so as this so-called constitutional barrage can be interpreted, it is not very large and strong. But today we keep trying to highlight these fears that people are now going to look at other people's medical records. No, this bill is meant simply for the future, no matter what special circumstances, tragedy, disaster, no matter what we call it. In such cases, we need to have a supportive support service so that 112 does not fail, because today information still has the highest value. In the same way, people's medical records are of great value and will continue to be protected, so that a person who has access to these data on a daily basis must be qualified as a volunteer in order to provide this telephone service in an emergency.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U150	Jevgeni Ossinovski, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, there is a procedural question. § 105 of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure states that at second reading there will be a discussion of the draft which is on the agenda. We have heard different views from the rapporteur on a wide range of different laws, but, unfortunately, he has not been able to formulate exhaustive or even satisfactory views on the provisions in this draft. It is rare that, in addition to the fact that the bill is not ripe, the waitress does not seem to be too mature to talk about it. Now, in this situation, one of my fellow Members made a very appropriate proposal so that we could interrupt the second reading. The representative of the commission disagrees with this proposal, but the Rules of Procedure also provide for the second reading of the draft unilateral right of the Bureau to be interrupted. Would you consider such a proposal as a result of the fact that constitutional issues are still at issue here? You're gonna hear this story right here, and you're gonna see that clearly this thing is really bad right now. Let's cancel this embarrassing moment, push it into the autumn, and then make a good law together.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U152	Thanks for the offer. Indeed, the large hall has the opportunity to decide to interrupt the second reading of the draft if the course of discussion requires it, and most members of the Riigikogu want it and have come to the conclusion that it is necessary. However, as President, I have no reason to believe that the Committee on Legal Affairs would have been collectively irresponsible. The Committee on Legal Affairs must have sent its most competent member to present this bill at this point of the law. I believe that the Commission did not behave in any other way. So, on the basis of the best of faith and assuming that the Committee on Legal Affairs has decided responsibly who he is sending here to present the draft, we can certainly continue today. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This bill is not the first time we have been in this Chamber. But listening to the hail of these questions, I inevitably get the impression that this bill has not been read or understood, because the idea of the crisis information service has been expanded on its own initiative in this Chamber. According to the bill and the law introduced to us, the purpose of the crisis information service is to provide information about the person's stay in the hospital. But by listening to these questions, it is as if detailed and detailed health data are being transmitted. I don't remember anyone in the Commission talking about it. Good waitress, do you remember, as a member of the Commission, that one of the ministerial staff or project promoters would have said that detailed health data would be transmitted through this crisis assistance service?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U154	Thank you, good question! Rather, it was that the representatives of the Ministry replied that the purpose of this draft was not to process personal data. But we also need to understand that, if the Ministry had come up with just such a suggestion that the purpose of this law is simply to extend the circle of people who could process personal data, then we would not have had it here, say, in this format, as this UA, which was sent back and discussed again. In my opinion, this hail of questions is not surprising at all, because how many laws do we have that the President sends back and how much can, in fact, be brought to the attention of such a law. When we talk about very specific nuances and things here, we use a lot of such literal words, it is possible, in the light of this, to conjure up two images: one picture is that the situation is ugly and something has to be done now, which is that the government should resign, and the other picture is that it is not really a crisis and preparation is no joke. Maybe it's my fault that I take the same tonality that I'm being asked to answer, and then I try to explain it as humanly as I am. Perhaps, indeed, the Committee on Legal Affairs has made a huge mistake in making me submit this draft, because perhaps a dry statistician would be needed here, who would have read all these things in advance and, in many cases, simply replied that this was not discussed by the Commission. And given that the big hall actually makes a decision, I admit it was my fault that I thought it was an extremely important debate. But if questions are repeated and you don't even hear what has been answered before, and you come back with the question, "Who is going to look at my medical history now and what is he going to do with this information?" I'm just sorry that we still have some pretty interesting drafts planned for the evening, which I'd like to deal with, but many people may have lost their strength by then. But maybe this is just a tactic. I, as a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs, have a whole summer of work, and others may not have so much work ahead of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U155	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U156	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, I do not at all ridicule or humiliate those numbers that helped to prevent 112 from crashing and to provide people with the information they need to alleviate their fears and concerns. We were all in a situation that was completely unexpected. You see, even you called and got help, but no one started to identify who called. This bill isn't about this kind of recognition, it's about identification only when you ask for health information, right? Now, in response to a fellow official, you said that you wouldn't immediately know what was in the hospital and that it wasn't until Monday that the person who entered the data would come. About that kind of answer you had. But what's the information? I want to narrow it down now. If someone calls because there's been an accident several hours ago, for example, a major disaster, a lot of people have been injured, but there's no data in the system about which hospital a person has been taken to, what kind of information does the caller get from this number?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U157	Thank you! Respondents from this number may be able to communicate the information that the person has been taken to the hospital. If no one's been taken to the hospital, you can't give me any information about it. Even if people were in that snowy hole, that phone wouldn't really have worked. There's a person who can call and ask if anyone close to him, I don't know, is in the hospital. For example, my husband went on X and I heard there was a chemical spill. I'm gonna call and ask if my husband, with a personal identification number like this, I, for example, have a husband's personal identification number in my head, gone to a hospital somewhere. I'm told there isn't, and that's the end of the story, there's no information. But if my husband has been taken to the hospital, good Helmen, and if he hasn't turned off his data, they're not only open to the husband, but children can also find out where he's been taken to in connection with this chemical spill, then the phone service works. In that case, this service will work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U158	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, You commended a number of colleagues here that they have good questions. I don't have a good question, I have a very short question. It is known that this law amending the Rescue Act and the Weapons Act will be renegotiated because the President of the Republic failed to declare it on 29 April. I ask the following question: would you, as a rapporteur for the Commission, reflect the debate that took place in the Commission on eight amendments, seven of which were supported and one was opposed by the members of the Commission? On this draft option, do we assume that the Riigikogu supports it? There are more chances that the President will announce it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U160	Thank you! I have to say that I have had the honour of being with you, good Urve, on various committees, and you have better questions than others. Others are just good, but your questions are better, they are thorough, short and relevant. Now, it is extremely bizarre to describe this situation, because the opposition took part in the Commission meeting in the form of teleworking, while the coalition was physically present. This means that I do not know exactly how the members of the opposition participated, maybe they had just started the computer and, at the same time, carried the bed or played with the dog and then asked questions. I wouldn't look at that. I think everyone worked well, but I can't describe a situation I haven't seen with my own eyes. We had a lot of discussion, although the arguments were always directed at one place. The main fear was that personal data would still be processed, although the other party said that the data would not be processed. That was the situation. Your question had another little moment, what was it? Do we have the knowledge and conviction that this bill is better now? Yeah, I think it's better. I believe that once the President has failed to declare the law, officials will also understand that they cannot allow such a law, which is not well drafted, to go back to the President for approval.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U161	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now we're opening negotiations. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U162	Mr President, thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'll make a reply to your address first. I hope what you said to comment on Mr Ossinovski's procedural question was a joke. Otherwise, at least I, if not all the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, feel a little touched, so as not to say more. But you can comment on that later. Secondly, I would like to say to Tarmo as a consolation that I think no one in this Chamber has questioned the crisis information line 1247 as such. I think it's the right thing. This very special situation proved most vividly that it was very reasonable, very practical and very necessary, and actually saved a great deal of time for those working on the 112 route. It is only a matter of one fact that it cannot be said that in detail, namely the information that is also intended to be shared by this bill. I think that no one in this Chamber has challenged the crisis information line as such. And thirdly, I would like to make a fundamental statement. If you're suggesting that the Reform Party is fighting for some personal things or something like that, absolutely the opposite. We are fighting for the fundamental rights of a person under the Constitution. There is no other reason why we are asking these questions. None of us here has personal concerns or problems, but it is the same in § 26 of the Constitution, to which the President referred, and according to which everyone has the right to family and privacy. It's a matter of principle. Nothing else, nothing personal. I have to admit, unfortunately, that the Reform Party still believes that extending access to sensitive personal data is not sufficiently justified and proportionate. The protection of personal data is a matter of principle and the general principle is that the person decides to whom he or she gives his or her medical data to process. This draft actually wants to go down the path of a substantial expansion of this very principle, with no particular substantive background or justification. We're building a possible situation where it might be needed. We can't even design it very well, but we really want to do it. I would like to proceed with a reference to the Chancellor of Justice, who has said very nicely: 'The European Union General Data Protection Regulation (EU-GDPR) is undoubtedly also in force in emergency and emergency situations. " Even an emergency situation does not give indulgence to withdraw from this general regulation, and most of the time there is no need for it. I did not ask Tarmo in vain whether, during the recent emergency, there was a need to use this provision of the law. There was no need, not once, because people who ended up in the hospital were usually in contact and were able to appoint a contact person with whom they agreed to share their medical records. Moreover, in fact, the Chancellor of Justice has said: 'In the resolution of an emergency situation and in an emergency situation, the institutions carry out their duties under the law. The grounds for processing personal data necessary for this purpose are contained in the law. ' Secondly, no other law provides for such liberal access to sensitive personal data as it is intended to provide. This is what Mr Keit repeatedly referred to, that merely calling is enough, figuratively speaking, to obtain sensitive health data. And what else may have been overlooked: there has been a list of relatives who, theoretically, could be those who could access this information, and it also says 'other person', which leaves the ends completely open. The reality is that it is very often not related to whom the patient actually wants to report his or her stay in the hospital. I have a very specific example of Pärnu, where the father of a man was in a hospital and his son was very angry that he was not given information about his father's stay in the hospital. But the father didn't want to report it to the son for whatever reason, and had appointed his partner as a contact. Period. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U163	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U164	Thirdly, it is also very problematic for this rather wide range of authorities, who have the right to decide on the need to issue information. There are indeed four of these institutions: Health Board, Rescue Board, Police and Border Guard Board and Defence Police Department. I asked at the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs whether it would not be reasonable that the Ministry of Social Affairs, who has actually been called upon to monitor the reliability of the health information system, could not be the authority coordinating access to the health information system. Surprise-surprise, on the one hand, it was positive that the same question had also been put to the Ministry of Social Affairs by officials of the Ministry of the Interior, but the Ministry of Social Affairs did not consider it necessary. It doesn't make any sense to me. This once again weakens this information system and increases the risk of abuse of this data. Fourthly, a very much talked about the fact that we are adopting a law or that the coalition has the will to adopt a law that does not work on the first day of its entry into force. This law would make sense if, for example, data on a person's stay in hospital could reach the health information system immediately, if not for minutes, at least within hours. Today, this data reaches the health information system as a rule when a patient is discharged from the hospital and an epidemic is prepared. In the course of the procedure, it was clarified that, in fact, hospitals have an obligation to draw up a notice of commencement of inpatient treatment. But it must be drawn up within five days. This means that such a system will not work. If we are told that this is intended, among other things, to reduce the workload of hospitals, then I say, on the contrary, now, in addition to the epidemic crisis and the announcement of the start of inpatient treatment, hospitals must take another step to ensure that the information reaches online on time. Only then would this law make sense. If people call and they don't get information, what's the use? Not at all. These things should be thought through first. We do not absolutely deny that there really are situations where such access to sensitive health data could be justified. But it can't be as wide, incomprehensible and confusing as it is today, at this point in the process of processing this bill. Fifthly, we are now taking an important risk that this bill will not be announced twice. And in that case, Tarmo, we will not create a legitimate basis for your beloved crisis information line 1247, which we will say honestly, today there is no real legal basis, but there is no problem, not that I want to emphasise, even tomorrow, figuratively speaking, because if this law is not announced, all its provisions will not be announced. Consequently, I propose that the Chamber support Amendment 3, tabled by the Reform Party, which excludes only those provisions concerning access to sensitive personal data. In taking this proposal into account, the Reform Party Group will certainly agree to support this draft. But, unfortunately, since we cannot be sure of the coalition, I am handing over the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Rescue Act and the Weapons Act. After the vote on Amendment 3, we will make a final decision. If the hall supports this, we will withdraw the suspension proposal, but since we do not know which decision will be taken, we will now hand it over to the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U165	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U166	Thank you. I'd like three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U167	5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U168	Ladies and gentlemen, This debate today, on the 100th anniversary of the Estonian Constitution, is, frankly, worrying. It is worrying how little some of our colleagues really understand the responsibility under the Constitution for regulating people's rights. This talk, which we have heard mostly here, could really belong to the genre of a mediocre comedian, intended for people with a very specific sense of humour, but a serious debate on the issue of human health data cannot be mentioned in any way. In the rule of law, as I said on one of my issues, the accuracy of the concepts, when it comes to the fundamental rights of people under the Constitution, is important. This is not just any bureaucracy, as the waitress called it, saying that you are asking me here some complicated bureaucratic words. This is how the rule of law is governed, with conceptual precision, especially when it concerns fundamental rights of people. Lord Kruusmägi himself has gone away by now. In the last part of his report, he began to talk about the processing of personal data and said that there was not even processing of personal data on the basis of this draft. Well, I guess he doesn't know the difference between two things, one is health records, and the other is personal data. Personal data shall be any data relating to a natural person enabling him or her to be identified. Therefore, the processing of personal data is carried out on a massive basis on the basis of this bill and, in any case, there is no question at all here. Health data as special types of personal data are the ones on which the main discussion here focused. And frankly, how seriously a debate on fundamental human rights can be taken if the Commission rapporteur does not know what he is talking about. He doesn't know what personal data is, and he doesn't know what health data is. At least it seems that way, because on my questions he said twice that you were good at asking, but it was not my job to ask, but to get an answer, and not for yourself, but for people's fundamental rights. Generally speaking, health data are data relating to a person's state of health. So far, information on whether a person has received treatment in one health institution or another has been generally discussed, in fact as part of the health record, because if a person has received treatment, it says something about his or her state of health. There are also certain health facilities where, for example, the name of the institution says a great deal about the specific health problem that a person may have. And now we read in this bill Well, how is that possible when he inherits health data from the health information system and issues them to a certain circle of people? Then how come he doesn't process them? What is that? It's just an idiotic line written in it. Now, the second question why the President did not declare this law. It is, of course, normal that Parliament does not have to lay down all the individual issues and that the resolution of certain issues can be left to the level of executive power, that is a perfectly normal principle of functioning. But when we talk about sensitive personal data and people's fundamental rights, here is how much can be delegated as a 'blank bill', much more limited. The legislator cannot release itself from the obligation to protect people's fundamental rights under law, simply by saying that we delegated it to the government and, well, when the government did badly, what was there. This is not my argument, it is the argument of the President of the Republic, to which, unfortunately, the rapporteur could not give a single sentence in response. The point is that, in the case of this draft, the legislator has actually failed to do its job, in other words, it has failed to identify the essential aspects necessary to enable these personal data to be processed in accordance with the Constitution. Now, some things have been fixed, there is no doubt about it. For example, attempts have been made to describe this event in some way, there is an additional proportionality check, a very grateful opportunity has come to close the health data, and it is remembered that the first time we dealt with this draft, this possibility did not exist, now it has arisen here. But the fact that the law has been partly fixed does not, in fact, solve this issue in any way and the debate about constitutionality remains. Let us take points 27 and 28 from here, to which the previous speaker has already pointed in part. It says who is close to the person: the spouse, the partner registered with the application of the Cohabitation Act, the grandparent, the child, the grandson, the sister, the brother, and then the 'other person who can be considered justified by the personal arrangement of the person's life'. It's a margin of discretion, understand? But it is not appropriate on a matter where there is a constitutional dispute, so the President has rejected this norm for that reason, among other reasons. Perhaps you would be able to define this concept a little more precisely, so that a member of the Alert Centre's staff or a person arising from the Alert Centre's instructions should not decide on such a weighty issue as concerns the fundamental rights of people. And the other side, which is actually completely unsolved and the problem unaddressed, is how the caller will be identified. The previous speaker told them what the Ministry officials promised them that they had some plans and draft regulations, etc. It's all true, and I don't doubt that the officials who said it are going to do it. But once again, it is a matter of constitutionality and the legislator cannot release itself from the obligation to resolve these issues at the level of the law. Of course, the law does not need to fix the exact manner in which everything takes place, but for example, the way in which a person is identified would need to be fixed in the law. As a result, we have reached a situation where there are still fundamental questions which were raised at the time of the previous adoption and which were then not listened to and which the President drew attention to. And now there are more of these idiots, and I'm sorry about the phrase that's been written in here, which, unfortunately, the Commission waitress didn't know how to explain, and we probably won't hear any proper explanation today from those who wrote it. In this situation, of course, it is only possible and proper to interrupt the second reading so that these provisions can be discussed. There is no reason why it should be rammed through this now before the end of the session and risked that this thing either flies completely up to the President and goes to the Supreme Court or flies up to the Supreme Court when it is implemented. Consequently, the Social Democrats propose that the second reading be suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U169	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The optimistic nature of the second reading of this draft does not diminish the fact that it is an extremely important issue. And let us not forget that this verbatim and perhaps the video footage are being followed very closely by both the President and, probably, the judges of the state. People's personal data is a very important issue. If we do specifically health data, I dare say that in the "normal" situation, Estonia has one of the most secure systems in the world, especially from a person's or patient's point of view. It is based on the knowledge that a person himself is the master of his own data and that a person himself can either permit or deny access to his own data. In a large number of countries around the world, health records are still kept on the shelf as they were in my childhood at the clinic's desk. We know of cases where these data have been accessed by inappropriate individuals, and these data have been leaked to the public, which has resulted in serious misfortune. On the other hand, Estonia keeps the health data in the digital system and from any viewing, as Mrs Everaus said, the trail remains. If my dentist's looking at my knee surgery data, it's a violation, let alone if it's looked at by someone who has nothing to do with it. But now, during this corona crisis, and even before the adoption of the current law, there has been some strange change in access to data and the handling of data. I find this very worrying. While the digital history log has so far shown to an accuracy of one second which page was viewed by a particular doctor or other health care professional, there is now an impersonal Health Board attached to the positive and negative coronadiagnoses. Whoever's actually watching this information and what's being done with this data is no longer clear to the patient. And it'll set the alarm. I have heard very interesting and curious stories from voters. One of them concerns a person of my age who proved to be a positive corona diagnosis. And instead of supplementing the person's digital history or, at the very least, informing his family doctor, he was called himself. First he got a call. If he couldn't pick up the phone, he had made an unanswered call from the same number to his wife, and thirdly, pay attention now, this is about a 40-year-old person, and his mother received a call. For the mother of a 40-year-old! This is a true story in the Republic of Estonia in 2020. We discussed this issue in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and it was said that the police would also receive lists of people with a positive diagnosis. I haven't quite figured out whether they're being sent as an Excel or Google Docs file yet, but in any case they're not being transmitted from the data system to the data system. And I'm saying there's a very high probability that these positive corona-diagnosed lists might be lying on someone's computer. At least the assurance that this is not the case has not been given to us. And that's the problem. It is also known that in smaller municipalities, every rural municipality elder knew exactly who had been diagnosed and who had not. I am not sure that it is in the interests of any of us or of Estonian society that our parish elder knows exactly what diseases we have or what diseases we do not have. The same can be said of the police, because under normal circumstances, the police are not a matter of diagnosis for any of us or of what someone has suffered. All the more so when it comes to this subject, as we know from the public debate, it was very often tending to label people. It can be said that some, at least partly, of those who received a positive corona diagnosis were also discriminated against in society. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U171	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U172	Now, about the fact that when a person goes to a hospital, who has the right to know it and who doesn't. As far as I know, any person who goes to a hospital is asked who is the close person who can be informed and who can be given the information. It's up to this person. If it's her husband, it's her husband, and if it's her son or daughter, it's her son or daughter. But to make sure that someone knows your personal identification code, and that's roughly enough to access your personal data, I wouldn't say it's very reasonable. Nor should it be based solely on the fact that someone is a close relative. It may not be in a person's best interest that his immediate relative gets the information. There are plenty of examples of families where children and parents do not communicate or do not want to communicate. So far, in the Republic of Estonia, the primary thing on this issue is what the patient thinks about who the information is about, rather than the people who are close to him or others who know the patient's personal identification code. Man's own interests have always been more important than the need or curiosity of someone else. When Riigikogu discussed this issue for the first time, the Committee on Legal Affairs also asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for its opinion. We had a very constructive debate on this. And believe it or not, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has consensually found that such personal data transfer and information by telephone or telephone should not be passed on to people who have not been informed by the patient. We also submitted our consensual position to the Committee on Legal Affairs, but unfortunately it did not find support in the Committee on Legal Affairs and, unfortunately, this draft was bounced back here before us. My simple suggestion is not to make the same mistake twice and not to believe that a cosmetic correction will undo the fundamental problem. Let us not underestimate the principle that has previously applied in the Estonian state when dealing with personal data, that is to say, the person himself must have the authority to decide who can access his or her information and who does not. If a person wishes to prohibit the disclosure of this information to healthcare professionals, he or she must have the opportunity. If a person wishes to prohibit its disclosure to his or her loved ones, he or she must also be able to hide that information from them if he or she so wishes. And quite certainly he must be able to hide it from so-called anonymous information line workers or other public officials or municipal officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U173	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, negotiations have been concluded. Eight amendments to the draft have been tabled. We will examine these proposals together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment. Yeah, please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U174	I would like to vote on the first amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U175	Thank you. We are going to vote on this amendment. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the first amendment tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U176	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U177	We will vote on this amendment. Amendment 3. Can we go to the vote on the proposal? Nobody's against it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U178	Thank you. I would like to ask for the fifth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U179	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the fifth amendment tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The position of the commission is to take this fully into account. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was supported. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. And even the eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft, but the Social Democratic Party Group has proposed to suspend the draft 128 UA at second reading. The Group of the Estonian Reform Party has also proposed the same thing. We are going to vote on this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the vote? It's okay. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party to suspend the draft law on the amendment of the Rescue Act and the Arms Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at second reading of UA. Please take a stand and vote. 40 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 49 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Thus, the second reading of draft 128 UA has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U180	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on! Today's fifth item is the second reading of draft law 173 on the amendment of the building code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Kristen Michal, vice-chairman of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This point is unlikely to give rise to such excitement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U182	Ladies and gentlemen, attention!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U183	The Commission discussed the draft 173 on several occasions. It was already ready to be sent to the hall, but then another proposal was received and therefore the bill was sent to the hall a week later. But that's all I'm talking about. First, I'm going to read out the procedural decisions, just in case. The Commission discussed and proposed a consensual proposal to place the draft on the plenary agenda on 15 June. In addition, it was proposed to conclude the second reading, as well as by consensus, and when the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the third reading by 17 June and to propose a final vote on the draft. All the decisions were consensual. Now about what has happened between the first and second readings of the draft. Initially, five proposals were received concerning the so-called "original" or "basic" use of this draft, i.e. the construction of charging infrastructure in the course of renovation and the search for energy savings in the renovation of buildings as a means of generalising. At a later stage, there was another proposal, which I will perhaps talk about later, which is proposal No 5, which does not concern such an initial core of this draft, but is merely softly linked to how politely expressed. But we added this because the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was quite struggling with this solution, and that is why businesses were obviously in trouble, which could have caused even wider trouble, and that is why we tried to meet the Ministry. When we responded to the MKM's request, we discussed this issue in the Commission at a public hearing and at a closed hearing, and we included the corresponding amendments in the draft. But now the proposals. The proposals, as I said, were initially five, now there are six. The first proposal is rather a drafting amendment, which suggests that it is not only a technical system that defines energy consumption, but a technical system that has a significant impact on the energy performance of the building. Some of these technical engineering systems may not only be consuming, but also producing here is referred to. The second proposal takes out one point which is actually justified because of the various... I'm sorry! The second amendment is that the building heating system is equipped with self-regulatory equipment. Yes, this amendment was necessary because it was not in the original wording, and that is also the aim, because the whole aim of this draft is to increase energy efficiency. The third proposal is what I started to talk about earlier and about how the Minister responsible for the field should introduce a procedure for assessing the technical feasibility and economic justification of installing the automation system by means of a regulation. That's out of the question, the minister doesn't have to do it. The drafters and specialists of MKM appreciated it quite sensibly in my opinion and found that everyone who is going to do such a project must decide for themselves whether the installation of such a system is economical and appropriate, and this must be done in the course of the work. The fourth amendment concerns the date of expiry of the building permit, which is also of a more technical nature. The fifth amendment concerns the electricity market law. If you remember, it was originally called an amendment to the Building Code. This has happened once again, when I try to sum it up more easily, in such a way that less than 50 kW of solar energy and other electricity producers have been inspired by the intention that they could receive support in a certain way, and at some point it has been discovered that the way in which they receive this support may not, in Elering's or in any other's view, meet the requirements. This has been seen as de minimis aid, in which some producers are therefore in trouble because they do not fit into this classification. The producers have, of course, assumed that it would benefit from a block exemption and therefore do not constitute de minimis State aid, etc. In short, in the end, we are trying, at least in the light of current knowledge and the explanation of the MKM, to resolve the situation from today's future in the hope that the same wording will also solve this interim period. In the meantime, after the Commission's discussion, first there was a public hearing in the Riigikogu conference hall, a large physical hearing, and then there was a committee's discussion, companies sent a letter saying that what they agreed with in the committee they still disagreed with. We asked the MKM again and it was reaffirmed that they maintained their claim that the solution they offer was the most sensible one. At the moment, I dare say, having consulted the chairman of the committee, that I believe that this is perhaps the best we can offer on the basis of our knowledge. Amendment 6 concerned the date of entry into force. I'm afraid for many people who are not familiar with the matter, this whole thing may have gotten mixed up, but it's generally a sensible draft. And this one proposal, which has come here perhaps not in accordance with such good legislative practice, but in solving the problem, is still based on the best intentions, at least according to what we know today. This has not taken place on our initiative, we have come to meet the executive, but there was consensus in the Commission, also on the part of businesses, at least until this point. Later they sent a letter that maybe this is not the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U184	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, It's very good to listen to you when you compare with the previous point. He'll know much better what we're talking about. I am asking about Amendment 5, I am simply doing this for the verbatim report, because it is an important change. I asked the secretariat of the Committee on Economic Affairs and it became clear that the first hearing was not public. It was in the format of a public hearing, but it was a regular committee meeting. And that's why maybe it's good to talk it over in public here. At the time this support scheme was adopted, I felt that the Riigikogu had a clear knowledge that it would fall under the block exemption regulation. But somehow it has happened that this communication was not made in time and now we have to correct this failure. As a member of your long-term Economic Commission, have you also understood that the executive simply failed to provide this information and now we are repairing what has happened, or is there some more substantive dispute behind it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U186	Thank you. First of all, what you pointed out when you said it wasn't a public hearing, yes, you are right. I don't think it was broadcast anywhere on the web, it was just held in the Riigikogu conference room. But since all market participants and others were present there, it was public in this sense. Now, on your question, yes, there was an answer already, and it has actually been included in the fifth amendment to the same explanatory memorandum, that the Commission previously stated an explanation to the corresponding amendment: 'As regards the aid scheme, MKM will make a notification to the European Commission on the implementation of the State aid block exemption. ' And indeed, as it was written here somewhere, I can't find it now, I have quite a few of these papers, but... Now, here is the elegant wording: 'In May of this year, in the course of the 156 SE procedure, the Commission was surprised to find the information that this communication had not been made by the Ministry. " For the sake of the steinogram, it should be said that the Commission was indeed surprised by this information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U187	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U188	Good manager! Good waitress! Yeah, clear presentation. But I ask you how many times this building code has been changed since it was adopted and how much more will it have to be changed in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U189	Thank you, good questioner! I don't know for sure how many times it's been changed. But I have a conviction and a hunch that we will definitely change that again. This is practically essential, especially in such large areas. And let us be honest that this initial change is positive in terms of the idea. It talks about energy savings, new opportunities and maybe new ideas. After all, the original idea was to increase the charging infrastructure for electric cars in the case of renovations, to whom it applies, to whom it does not apply, etc. It's that side of the building code now. The Electricity Market Law is what has now become part of this draft, not in accordance with such good legislative practice, of what we have just talked about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U190	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U191	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, You mentioned the subsequent amendment tabled by the operators or their opinion. What did it contain, and are you going to consider it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U192	Thank you. The letter that came to us was from Energy Production OÜ and their proposal was not in line. Their proposal is not the same as Amendment 5. Amendment 5 states how, in the opinion of MKM, who is keeping this subject, and the state aid with the Ministry of Finance, under the Ministry of Finance, is perhaps the best way to solve this issue. The company considers that this should be resolved in a different way. Today, however, we are following this proposal by putting it in this draft and making a decision on the basis of the knowledge of MKM and the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U193	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U194	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have a feeling the fish or the cancer is under another rock. This is the subject of de minimis aid, which relates to 50 kW solar panels. It is just that some operators find that this de minimis aid can be received twice, and now a correction is being sought six months before the end of the support measure. Did the Commission discuss which group of companies has the greatest concerns? Who's spent enough doors in the ministry to get this bill on this table?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U195	Thank you. Yes, from what you have mentioned, the de minimis state aid, this is actually the debate. What undertakings have expected to benefit from the block exemption and which therefore do not have such a volume limit or a year limit has now become de minimis aid because of Elering's interpretation. As far as we know today, the communication has not been submitted and therefore there has been a problem. But I can't remember now that we have been given a list of those who are so-called most interested. The main speakers in the Commission and in the debate were, in my opinion, representatives of solar energy. But, yeah, I don't know who's been spending the doors at the Ministry. I don't know about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U196	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are no more questions and we can open negotiations. Do you want to participate in the negotiations? There is no wish to participate in the negotiations, so we consider the negotiations to be concluded and we will examine the amendments to draft 173. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 2 has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 3 is again from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 4 is also from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Nobody calls for a vote. Five amendments are from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the commission has taken full account of this. The sixth amendment is also from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments to draft 173. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 173. The second reading is finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U197	We are going to the next item on the agenda, this is draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act 187 initiated by the Government of the Republic. We will start with a second reading and ask Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Knowing what awaits us today, I am pleased to come before you with a draft law 187, which is a draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act. This is a second reading and I will report on what has taken place between the first and second readings in the Commission and on the procedural decisions. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 4 May 2020. The first reading took place in plenary on 3 June and the deadline for tabling amendments was set at 5 June 2020. No amendments were tabled. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs prepared the draft for a second reading at its meeting on 9 June 2020, where all necessary procedural decisions were also taken. After the minutes, I am sure to mention that I then chaired the sitting, and the members of the committee were Kalle Grünthal, Kaja Kallas, Erkki Keldo Hanno Pevkur as alternate members, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Lauri Läänemets, Martin Repinski and Taavi Rõivas. We did not have any deeper debate, and the Commission made procedural decisions, all of which were taken by consensus. It was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 15 June 2020 and that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed, that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading on 17 June 2020 and that the final vote be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U199	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? I don't see any questions. Does anyone want to give a speech during the negotiations? That's not what you want. No amendments were tabled to this draft and the lead committee has proposed to stop the second reading of the draft 187. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U200	We will discuss the next item on the agenda, that is the seventh: the second reading of Bill 203 of Amendment of the Law on Specific Labelling of Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the related amendment of the Tax Administration Act. The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U201	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the preparation of a second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Special Labelling of Liquid Fuels and, in this context, the Act amending the Tax Administration Act at its meeting on 8 and 11 June. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 10 June at 5.15 p.m., the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft. The Committee on Finance prepared one amendment and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, another proposal, the explanations of which are set out in the list of amendments. Linguistic and regulatory changes have been introduced in the draft. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Monday, today and to conclude the second reading, and, when the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading and final vote on Wednesday, 17 June. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U202	There are questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U203	Thank you. Dear Aivar Chef! Since you have a tendency to table any arbitrary amendments to the drafts, as we discovered last week, could you, however, introduce a little bit of the proposals that were there? You kind of slipped over that there were some.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U204	Of course, good Evgeny, I'll introduce you to someone interested in the hall. The first proposal was that when the draft came to the hall, there was a proposal that specially labelled diesel fuel could be used in the period from 1 July 2020 to 30 June 2022. The Commission's proposal is that this period will end on 30 April 2022. For a very simple reason: on that date, all other excise concessions, both diesel and gas, will end and have the same deadline. The second amendment is that, when it was stated by the initiator that this fuel could also be used by the subsidiaries and the parent company of the mining company, we formulated it in such a way that a company belonging to the same group of companies, or its subcontractors, has the right to use this specially labelled liquid fuel. Those were the two corrections we took in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U205	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U206	Thank you. Tax exemptions are the most ineffective thing at all to support and, in the case of fossil fuels, environmental cynicism is added. What do you think is the justification for this bill? We will not have a serious debate on this issue taken up by the Commission in any way. The Minister of Finance even started with the way in which it is a tax amendment related to roads, so that they would not have to pay excise duty because they were not on the road. There's nothing to do with roads, it's an environmental tax. Try to explain why this measure is good. Convince me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U207	Thank you, Jürgen, for a good question. Very simple: at the moment, three mining companies in Ida-Virumaa are in a difficult situation and a solution was sought to support 5600 workers, as well as 2 000 additional workers who are involved in a subcontractor or indirectly in mines. One solution is to reduce input prices during this crisis, and one such input is fuel used in mines.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U208	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U209	Thank you. If, as a reason for this change, you bring out support for people, support for employment, why should this be done with proposals that harm the environment, if this could also be done directly, i.e. concrete measures or a specific plan, how can the work of people employed in oil shale energy be supported more by the state during difficult times? Such things in 2016, I know, they thought, even one concrete measure was implemented. In fact, this amount of instruments is much higher than simply reducing the price of fuel. You could support people, not machines, if you wanted to support people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U210	Thank you. There are certainly different ways to support entrepreneurship. At the moment, we are talking about oil shale mining companies. Such a proposal has come from the Government, which was analysed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. No other proposal for improvement had to be made on the law that could have been considered in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in order to make a better or fairer decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U211	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U212	Thank you. If it seemed to you that the Committee on Monetary Affairs was analysing, then I am just pointing out that the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not analyse. I asked you, just like Mr Ossinovski, why this measure. Tax exemptions are always a more inefficient way than support and, in addition, environmentally hostile when it comes to fossil fuels. You're saying there's a very simple reason, just jobs. I asked for a method, not a goal. What is the justification for the re-election of this environmentally anti-environmental and inefficient method, and not of any kind of state aid, for which the hands are now relatively free?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U213	Thank you. Just in case, I remind the members of the Riigikogu that Jürgen is also a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. [[A voice from the hall.]] That's not in a bad way, right, you said it, yeah, yeah. Certainly, the harmfulness of diesel and environmental pollution do not depend on whether the excise duty is higher or lower. Fuel costs are certainly the same, but I agree with you that there is an opportunity to offer other solutions, as Mr Evgeni asked, to support workers and everything else. At the moment, we had such a draft on our table, and we discussed this proposed solution, and the Committee on Monetary Affairs unanimously supported this solution. [[A voice from the hall.]] Didn't you? You didn't vote? You didn't? [[A voice from the hall.]] Maybe. I'm sorry! Then I'm sorry, Jürgen!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U214	Now the waitress has given her presentation, no more questions. Is there a desire to participate in the negotiations? There is no wish to participate in the negotiations, and the revision of the amendments is now in order. Two amendments have been tabled to this draft. One is, I see that I now... I'm sorry! Two amendments. It still makes sense. Two amendments. The first amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the opinion of the commission is to be taken fully into account. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the opinion of the commission is also to be taken fully into account. We have examined the amendments. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the second reading of draft 203. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U215	Now we are going to the next item on the agenda, this is draft 204, draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U216	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the preparation of the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act for a second reading at its meeting on 8 and 11 June. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Monday, 15 June and to conclude the second reading, and when the second reading is completed, to carry out a third reading and a final vote on 17 June. A proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group was received by the deadline of 10 June at 5.15 p.m. for tabling amendments. The Commission rejected the proposal. The proposal is not in line with the content and purpose of the draft, which is to help the oil shale industry in an economically difficult situation by reducing the burden on excise duties and environmental charges. The Committee on Monetary Affairs asked the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu for an opinion on the draft. The Committee on the Environment presented its next position on the draft. Reducing environmental charges does not serve environmental protection objectives, given the crisis that has arisen, it might rather be worth considering investing the money from environmental charges in making the oil shale sector more environmentally friendly. The Commission also noted that the crisis came not only on 1 January but in March and that the contracts for the sale of oil shale production were long ahead. In the Commission's view, however, it is hazardous to the environment, and there are many ways to re-use and recycle the ashes, specifically when talking about the fly ash and bottom ash. The Ministry could develop measures to encourage more re-use of flying ash and bottom ash. The Commission raised the issue of implementing the legislative amendment instead of 1 January 2020 from 1 July of the same year. The proposal was not supported. Linguistic and regulatory changes have been introduced in the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U217	Thank you very much, dear waitress. You have questions. Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U218	Thank you. Since I am absolutely certain that the chairman of the committee has been to the ash mountains and seen these beautiful light blue lagoons, my first question is whether you really consider the oil shale ash to be safe waste, you personally. I'm not talking about this strange fate of the sudden exclusion of oil shale ash from hazardous waste. The second [question] is this: do you not think that the money that is currently not collected in the state budget could really be directed towards research to expand the use of oil shale ash?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U219	Thank you for your question. I also read very clearly that it is hazardous to the environment, and there are many other ways to re-use or recycle ash. At the moment, it has been found to be one of the ways of helping three oil shale mining companies in a crisis situation. Whether the best option is that environmental charges are being reduced anywhere is always the subject of debate and debate. However, at the moment, such a draft has come in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs has unanimously supported it and sent it here for a second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U220	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U221	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! There are a number of questions about this draft. On the one hand, we are told that these are crisis measures; on the other hand, the period of validity is quite different. But the question is, if environmental charges are now to be charged on this ash in the same way as on the substance, then the recycling rate of the substance is quite significant, but this is not the case with ash. Do you think that this reduction in the bill and the environmental charge in the case of ash will encourage businesses to somehow recycle this ash?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U222	Yes, unfortunately, I agree with you that it is hardly now that reducing environmental taxes will change the use of ashes or motivate re-use and re-use. I don't think so. However, the draft at the moment shows that it is a one-year concession to support, I stress, oil shale companies and workers working there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U223	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U224	Thank you. You could extend this logic to the previous draft. Lowering environmental charges in general does not increase environmental sustainability. However, if the previous measure was simply not the best chosen one, then this draft is, in my opinion, a much more serious concern. Indeed, we are saying here that the environmental damage that companies in this sector are causing does not have to compensate society in one way or the other at the moment. Once again, how is this justified in a situation where alternative measures actually exist? The Group of the Social Democratic Party also proposed that the legislator should foresee that the same money that is received at the same rate will be used this year, but perhaps next year to support employment. Why didn't the Commission support it, can you shed some light on this argument in the big hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U225	Thank you. During the Commission's discussion, this draft was very clearly meant to support three companies or sectors at the moment, so that electricity could also be obtained in Estonia in the future at times when there is a crisis. A few days ago, we know that at one point the power supply from the Latvian side of the line fell away, and all our ovens had to work to produce electricity. I believe that it is important for Estonia that the power generation capacity exists. If, at the moment, there are difficulties, I stress, companies where very many people in Ida-Virumaa get a job, it is one of the possibilities of making a one-year discount to come out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U226	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U227	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Don't you think we're giving out very controversial signals with this? Indeed, there are more direct ways to support. If you say that you want to support people who have employment problems, or because of the crisis workers in the oil shale sector who have problems, you could direct [support] directly to them. We are now giving companies a completely opposite signal to climate policy through these measures, all the more so as the duration of time is not linked to the corona period, the contracts it concerns are concluded for a long time in advance and are not one of the ones involved in the current crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U228	Thank you. Certainly, the unemployment fund measure would have been one of the options if it were extended, but the unemployment fund measure is also well understood and it has been agreed that it will be a measure for up to three months. At the same time, we know that on the world market fuel prices are low and that the market to sell to is not the most advantageous. Such a proposal has been brought to the Riigikogu and has been discussed here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U229	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U230	Thank you. In one of the previous answers, you started talking about the security of electricity supply. In this context, you might also say how many percent of the electricity needed in Estonia is produced by the chemical industry of Kiviõli and VKG, for example. That would be interesting to know. But the question concerns this social measure. It's like you're not actually denying that it could be smarter and more targeted. The specific unemployment fund measure, which has been developed nationally, naturally does not meet the needs of the oil shale sector. However, the Socialist amendment specifically provides for the development of a separate support measure for oil shale energy for the same money, or environmental charges, but on a larger scale, for twice as much money. This amount is actually very small, which we are talking about here, according to this bill. Why and with what argument did the Committee on Monetary Affairs reject the Socialist Amendment, which would provide for greater and more precise support for people working in the oil shale sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U231	Thank you. Your proposal in the Commission was supported by two members and eight opposed. It is always the custom of us that at least two members support all the proposals so that they can be voted in the large Chamber, not the ten or eleven members of the Commission need to make a final decision, but the final decision is still made here by 101 members of the Riigikogu. We read your proposal. It is not only intended for this sector, it is for the whole sector, and as long as measures are invented and implemented, this crisis may have reached a point where doors are closed in this sector. When you asked if all three companies were producing electricity, no, really only one of them is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U232	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U233	Good President! Good waitress! When this issue of environmental charges was discussed in the Commission, it is quite logical that the issue of a fair transition should also have been raised. Are there other solutions in Ida-Virumaa than keeping the oil shale industry alive in a situation where the European Union and our various committees are currently discussing it just wanting to be much more ambitious in their climate targets for 2030? Consequently, the future of oil shale is seriously short-term. Did the Commission also discuss other solutions to Ida-Virumaa than the oil shale industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U234	Thank you. This draft is specifically to bring the oil shale industry out of the crisis situation. The Commission did not discuss any other measures in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U235	Heiki Kranich, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U236	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! I was really glad to hear that at the beginning you also pointed out the Committee on the Environment's very sceptical, polite expression of this draft. I've been glad to hear that you may not consider it the best solution yourself if you consider it the solution at all. But then again and again, you've said that if there is a bill, we're going to deal with it now and so it goes. Aren't you afraid that the Committee on Monetary Affairs in this composition may simply become the rubber stamp of the government, in which the Riigikogu has been accused quite often, and so-called thinking with its head is not much appreciated, for example, for members of the coalition? I'd love to see that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U237	Thank you, Heiki! I can tell you calmly that I don't think there's a single bill coming from the government to the Committee on Monetary Affairs that gets into this hall like this. In most cases, there are a lot of suggestions for improvement. In the case of the previous draft, there was also a Commission proposal for improvement, which did not come from anywhere in the Ministry. There's a debate on every subject. But in difficult times and times of crisis, quick decisions must be made. It is not possible to discuss whether we will be able to support entrepreneurs in one area in the autumn who have a very important role to play in employment in Ida-Virumaa. If we say today to nearly 8 000 people that [not known] whether or not the parties have a job tomorrow, then I think everyone in this Chamber is saying that we should support this solution right now so that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow people can go to work, get paid and feed their families.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U238	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U239	Good waitress! I will once again try to ask the same question that Mr Ossinovski asked twice. What arguments did the Commission have against the Socialist proposal? If the votes were at 8: 2, then a certain discussion would have to take place, with arguments evidently being put forward. What were the arguments against the Socialist proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U240	Thank you. On two occasions, I think, I have responded and I will reply in the same way for the third time, that your proposal is a very good proposal, it is a broad measure to support all jobs in Ida-Virumaa. I read Riina Sikkut's explanation of your proposal (I can read it in the minutes): '... Instead of temporarily reducing mining charges, the aim is to provide that the collected pollution charges should be directed towards supporting jobs in Ida-Virumaa. Pollution charges are high, but the aim is precisely to focus on increased re-use. According to him, only 3% of hazardous waste is used, while the rest is deposited as waste. ' We have had a debate in the Commission, and also in the coalition, that there is a need to find a solution to all the recycling and, on the other hand, to the reprocessing. There are many ideas on the table today, and I hope that the first solutions will be available in next year's state budget. The second issue is certainly the labour market and retraining, and the European Union's resources have been taken into account for this. I believe that in the near future one, two and three will be implemented there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U241	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U242	Thank you. You commended the amendment of the drafts in your committee. It's a big deal. However, Heiki Kranich asked that the Commission ultimately accepts all the government's drafts in substance, small technical changes are true, but basically he is right. The Commission works as a rubber stamp. However, with this draft, try to prove that it is the best way to support the sector. Fortunately, environmental issues are also the focus of attention in recent years on a wider scale, and now the government is increasingly sending such drafts that it is best to promote environmental pollution and support businesses in this way. What could this argument be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U243	Thank you. Jürgen, I certainly cannot agree with you that our committee is a government rubber stamp. For a very simple reason: it is not. Maybe in another period you've experienced it when you were a minister. I agree with you that there might have been better solutions to find support for this sector. I have never argued against this in the Commission either. [[A voice from the hall.]] Right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U244	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U245	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Aivar! Let's start with a little comment. You have said here that the amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party would support, like the whole of the jobs in Ida-Virumaa. We are, of course, concerned about them, but this amendment is, above all, intended to preserve jobs in the oil shale sector. This is also in our amendment, if you take this paper, clearly in the second paragraph. Please, read these papers. But my question is completely different. Do you perceive and have discussed with the Commission that the draft law also changes the issue of State aid affects this? How seriously do you feel that this issue could run counter to state aid rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U246	Thank you. If you are right and this goes against state aid rules, then companies will have to pay back the money. There's no two ways of understanding here. We have been told that this does not conflict with State aid rules. Where's the truth? I'm not a lawyer to argue or discuss this. I have to trust the initiators of the bill and the ministry who says they won't. But on the other hand, read your amendment. I must say that we in the Commission are always listening to the presentation by the initiator of the proposal for a correction and we are writing it properly. I read earlier what the initiator of this amendment read to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U247	Kalvi Tough, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U248	Thank you. A short question. So you don't read papers on the committee at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U249	No, let's read, let's read. We read, we read, you don't read. You also usually ask questions to committees that are, in fact, already in the draft papers [in a letter] that have been placed on the shelf back here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U250	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are no more questions. It is now possible to give a speech. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U251	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At first reading, such a broader ideological vision or a more substantive vision of the problem was described. Everyone who has been in more than one composition of the Riigikogu knows the story of how the oil shale sector is going to bloom in such a way that they do not even know if they can be picked up. And then it's going to be a couple of years, there's a crisis again, and then the country needs to cut some fees and other charges. Then it's done, they say it's over, next time it's blooming. Then it'll be a couple of years, and we'll be in the same situation again. And the situation we are in is that the sector as a whole is swimming strongly against the global and European Union climate policy, which, of course, is relevant in this global climate crisis and is becoming more and more severe year after year, and this counter-flow also makes it more difficult. But without doubt (I myself come from Ida-Virumaa) no one has any question that jobs in this sector must be kept, the social crisis must be prevented. In fact, a long-term strategy and plan would be needed, but if it has not been created so far, then, of course, in the short term, we cannot just let thousands of people stay in work. It's all right. However, as we have heard today, the chairman of the Commission himself is not convinced that this is the most sensible way to do it, that, in fact, it could really support employment, support these jobs, not cheap fuel or more pollution. This isn't all right. These alternative options actually exist. We are able because we are dealing with people at risk on the labour market, as well as with the region as a whole, the European Union's state aid rules are currently particularly flexible, in this context specifically to create a labour market measure for this sector. In 2016, as many colleagues remember, we were in a similar situation due to the fall in oil prices. The government and Riigikogu then also took different steps, and one of these steps was the development of a labour market measure specifically intended for Ida-Virumaa. It was also awfully difficult because it wasn't known if it would make it, and it would take a long time. Actually, it's all possible. This experience has been learned, this time it would be even more targeted and better able to do so, and the financial opportunities would be greater. In fact, the same could be used here, for example, in the longer term view of the Globalisation Adjustment Fund financing, and this could be done. Instead, the simplest, most primitive, I would say, the way that, uh, let's see what the tax rates we have there, and then we'll knock down what concerns the oil shale sector. Of course, it is also the easiest thing for these specific companies to ask for this instead of negotiating how employment could be supported. By them, this is an understandable request. But if the state envisages such support in this way, I think it speaks of sloth. As the chairman of the committee said, all of this could be considered, but you see, such proposals were not made, well, then we must support what was put on the table. In fact, in order to launch this labour market measure, a measure to support the oil shale sector, a decision of the Riigikogu would not be necessary at all. But the Riigikogu can also oblige the government to do such a thing. This is the content of the Socialist amendment: the construction, according to which the level of environmental charges would indeed remain the same, we would collect the environmental charges from oil shale companies in the same way, but the government would have an obligation in this exact amount of environmental charges... I'd like some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U252	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U253	... to create a social measure specifically supporting the employment of the oil shale industry in Ida-Viru County, which would fulfil precisely this objective: to prevent redundancies, to prevent people from working. It's perfectly understandable, simple, and everyone understands why it's being done. In such a case, there will also be no question of selective treatment of companies, which is clearly present at the moment. For example, this same section of the Environmental Charges Act includes waste from the cement industry. The cement industry does not reduce the fees for waste management, it is not reduced, but it is reduced in the oil shale industry. Would anyone advise the cement industry (I could give such advice) to protest such injustices? Why can't they get the relief for their hazardous waste that the oil shale industry gets for its hazardous waste, at least just as much? But in principle, indeed, our proposal provided for us to support what we perhaps want to support in terms of employment. There is no need to go from behind polluting corners in order to say honestly and clearly that, yes, we support this sector in this crisis so that people are not working. We are giving money under certain conditions, giving money precisely for this purpose. It could have been done. No substantive argument as to why this proposal was not considered was, unfortunately, brought to us by the chairman of the committee, talking about how our amendment is still not like this. This amendment consists of exactly one sentence. I'm quoting this one sentence so I don't misunderstand. They said something about protocols. 'The Government of the Republic shall use the proceeds of this Act... for measures to support the preservation of oil shale sector jobs. ' So it is precisely designed to achieve this effect, the social impact in a crisis situation, without having to come with a completely upside-down environmental signal. Consequently, with the desire to actually support Ida-Viru's employment and to do so at a higher rate than is currently foreseen in the draft, because the bill reduces the obligation to pay environmental charges in the oil shale sector by about 10 million, according to our amendment, the government should direct around EUR 20 million per year, twice as much to support employment. We think that we need to be more ambitious and stronger, but do it right. We certainly ask to support our amendment, despite the unconvincing argument of the committee chairman. In the event that this proposal is not supported, we would like to vote at second reading to cancel reading of the draft so that these sensible plans can be drawn up during the summer and adopted nicely in September, even with the entry into force afterwards. Anything's possible. It is not worth lazing and it is necessary to do your work in a quality manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U254	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U255	Mr. Vice President! First of all, I don't need any more time. There's a lot of things going on here at the same time, and they're all clearly unpleasant. Firstly, we have a draft that is likely to use one of the most ineffective measures to help the people of Ida-Viru County at all. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. We see for several consecutive times that the government, in its various aid packages, is sacrificing the environment at an instant, just like economic benefits. This is not the only draft, there are several drafts. This is a worrying trend. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. We should just keep this in mind. Today, we saw the Ministry of Finance pushing through another draft that is damaging to the environment, without taking into account the consensusary just of the Committee on the Environment, the consensual view that it is an anti-environmental draft and that alternative solutions should be sought. There was no division between the opposition and the coalition in the Committee on the Environment; we all understood what the impact of this draft was. But what worries me is that somehow completely slipping ash and ash have turned from hazardous waste into non-hazardous waste, it has been equated with a chemical. Well, good morning, I'll tell you! If this bill is going through right now, I believe it is not even an incompetent, but a criminal decision whereby the oil shale ash was removed from hazardous waste that is legitimised at the level of the law. This is exceptionally unpleasant, extremely dangerous and by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I dare say, exceptionally superficial. If you do, you will actually spit on all the green agreements and other documents you sign with one hand and cancel with the other. I have an urgent proposal for members of the coalition. It is not necessary to explain this to those in the Committee on the Environment, but it is probably necessary for those in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You're in the process of creating a very dangerous precedent, you're in the process of legitimizing fraud that hazardous waste is no longer dangerous and can be spilled anywhere. I have a suggestion: think about it, slow down, discuss it with environmental experts. I think that you will also find more competent environmental experts than the average one in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the Committee on the Environment. Start with them, start with hearing them, but I think we should bring in more competent specialists. Don't rush, head ahead, into obvious stupidity. Take your time and don't make stupid decisions. Do not make populist decisions with very little effect, obviously, at the expense of the Estonian environment. Don't do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U256	There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. So I consider the negotiations to be concluded. We have also proposed one amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Steering Committee has decided not to take this into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U257	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment. Since it's just one sentence, I hope everyone's been able to read it, so I'm not taking a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U258	But I will. At least to invite everyone to the hall. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I shall put to the vote the amendment on the draft 204 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 23 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of this amendment, against 48. The amendment as such will be incorporated in the draft law. [[???Hääled saalis: 'Õige! Õige!'???]] The President apologizes, this proposal does not receive support and the draft will continue to be dealt with as foreseen. We have the commission's proposal to stop the second reading of draft 204, but we also have the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal to interrupt the second reading of draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 39 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal to interrupt, against 47. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U259	We will go to the next item on the agenda, item No 9, draft Act 207 amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Group of the Estonian Central Party and the Group of the Isamaa. Let's start with the first reading, the waitress is Tarmo Kruusimäe, a member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U260	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! To begin as Agu Sihvka once began all his stories, you must start from the beginning. From 1 January 2018, we started to have a new rate of excise duty on e-cigarette liquids, EUR 0.2 per ml. Even at the time we were in the process, both consumers and merchants thought that this would create a secret market and a border trade. Unfortunately, the thing is that consumers and merchants agreed and were right. Today, in all European countries, there are no methodologies to build on to make it clear what the secret market and cross-border trade are, as these data are not collected. The Ministry of Finance has its own data, he knows how much excise duty is collected, but there is no such data as to how much consumers use every day on average. More than that, according to the Institute of Health Development, there are 15,000 consumers of e-cigarette daily in Estonia and 40,000 according to the Institute of Conjuncture, so there are already scissors here, there is already a methodology. We can say that, broadly speaking, the share of the secret market is currently 85% and more. Let me give you a simple example. If such a bottle of e-liquid paid EUR 5 before excise duty, then it was added EUR 2 to it, so that there were EUR 7 and then other taxes. Thus, it is much more affordable, affordable for a person to acquire either on a cross-border or on a black market. More than that, we not only taxed products containing nicotine, but we also taxed, say, base matter. This bottle has 90% of this liquid, so it has 5% taste and 5% nicotine. Such a bottle of glycerin is being cross-used. It's used in perfumery, pastry, beer production. This kind of bottle costs 15 euros in warehouses. If you buy it at an e-cigarette store, it costs 255 euros. When we say that it does not matter to the consumer whether he buys such a bottle with EUR 15 or EUR 255, we are wrong. Personally, I would like to make a selfit with the person who goes to the e-cigarette shop and buys a bottle of this kind with 255 euros, knowing that it is possible to buy it [more cheaply] from pharmacies or warehouses, somewhere else. Consequently, the situation is that the excise duty is not as high as [as forecast]. Yes, the Riigikogu has repeatedly proposed a reduction in excise duty. There has been a kind of opposition to this. The last efforts were at the end of last year. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission has said that this is unreasonable, and has said on several occasions that we should, to some extent, turn this thing back. But the Ministry of Finance has now come up with real calculations. Here I can simply repeat one point that, I remember, Heiki Kranich said when there was a conference dedicated to the 20th anniversary of Mart Laar's government: at the moment when the young Estonian state started its own tax policy, one thought was that there was no point in imposing any tax, the administration of which is more expensive than the revenue from it. In recent years, excise duty receipts have been EUR 1 million per year, and the Ministry of Finance has said that this is not enough to cover the cost of handling excise duties. So it was not the idea that the consumers of e-cigarettes wanted and wanted, but it was from the Ministry of Finance that it came from [the idea] that we would engage in substitution activities if we had burdened it with such a high excise duty, and the proposal came from the Ministry of Finance that we would exempt excise duty for two years. And why? It is precisely because adults can move away from the smuggling market and border trade to official shops because the official stores have laboratory-controlled and tested liquids for adults. Strangely enough, we made unattractive e-smoking, or vaping, attractive activities for minors. Previously, it was not subject to excise duty, it was available to people on a daily basis, and the conscious choice of many adult people who wanted to quit smoking was the main one, they wanted to care about their relatives because, unlike regular cigarettes, consumption of e-cigarettes does not lead to passive smoking. Perhaps many good coworkers have noticed that people who use e-cigarettes do not smell smoke from ordinary cigarettes, that their clothes do not have the usual smell of smoke, and that people who are close by do not get that smell on their hair and clothes, and that they do not have to worry that they have this unpleasant smell on them. Accordingly, the Ministry of Finance had to suspend it for two years. What happens next, we can't say that, but it's understandable that if we make a $5 bottle out of a $5 bottle in an instant, we've gone too far. Perhaps we introduced 2 000 percent tobacco excise, and so did substances that do not contain tobacco or nicotine, which are actually in cross-use. We understand that these predictions were not thought through, but rather changed something with the great hurrah. Today, however, it is financially burdensome for the Estonian state. According to this, the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Estonian Central Party and the Isamaa Party have proposed two years to release e-liquids from tobacco excise duty. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U261	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U262	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee prepared the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity for the first reading at its meeting on 8 June. Tarmo Kruusimäe presented the draft as the representative of the initiators. We were also invited to attend the Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, Marek Uusküla, and the Chief Specialist Heidi Vessel. The draft provides for the suspension of the collection of excise duties on tobacco fluid for two years, with the aim of curbing border trade and the secret market. The amendments are scheduled to enter into force on 1 December 2020 on a proposal from the initiators. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, to conclude the first reading, the deadline for submitting amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure is ten working days, and the rapporteur was appointed here. The Commission had questions concerning the entry into force of the draft, the excise duty on tobacco liquids and their collection, the question of the question of avoiding the secret market and border trade, the need to ask the Social Committee for an opinion on the health aspect, the definitions of alternative tobacco products and whether nicotine-containing liquids could be used tax-free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U263	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. The representatives of the political groups will be able to make speeches during the discussion of the draft. I don't want to make speeches either. Let's consider the negotiations to be over. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 207 be completed. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 2 July at 4 p.m. We have exhausted this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U264	The next item is item number 10, but we have a small problem: the waitress, the minister, is not here yet. So I'm gonna take a ten-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U265	Can we start looking at this item? There's a mumble that says yes. So, I'm asking for a presentation from the Minister of Finance. I will also read out the title of this item, which is a text, serious text. Submitted by the Government of the Republic of... Shh! May I have your attention, please? First reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision "Providing a state guarantee under Article 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 establishing a European Facility for Temporary Support to mitigate Unemployment Risk (TERA) in the event of an outbreak of COVID-19. Please, Minister Helme, Minister of Finance, for a presentation here!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U266	I'm sorry I couldn't make it! I was in the Riigikogu house, but I thought, by looking at your hearing, that you would be much longer with the previous item. Okay. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft decision to grant the European Commission a State guarantee amounting to EUR 48716500. In addition, the Government of the Republic shall be authorised to carry out acts relating to the granting of the guarantee. This concerns the conclusion of a guarantee agreement with the European Commission itself. In April, the Commission proposed a temporary, time-limited joint facility of EUR 100 billion, with the support of the EU budget and Member States' guarantees, to address the sharp rise in unemployment caused by the outbreak of the COVID-19 outbreak. The proposal was in line with the resolution measures approved by both Finance Ministers and Heads of Government. The Facility will provide Member States with an additional opportunity to finance temporary labour market measures taken or planned by them in order to maintain jobs in an emergency caused by the virus and to help alleviate the effects of the crisis for businesses. The FDI facility is guaranteed by the Member States at 25%, or EUR 25 billion, according to the share of GNI in the EU's gross national income (GNI). Estonia's share of the guarantee is 0,195 per cent. The guarantee is unconditional, irrevocable and can be realised on demand, which means that the Member State must ensure, throughout the duration of the guarantee agreement, loans granted under the Facility up to the maximum extent of its participation in the guarantee. The guarantee agreement relates only to loans taken by the Commission under this Regulation, i.e. for this measure. We consider the realisation of the guarantee very unlikely. Before making a claim for guarantees by Member States, the Commission will assess the volume of potential commitments of the entire budget of the European Union and the possibilities of using the possibilities of the European Union budget to repay the loan commitment. In addition, the Commission may consider the financing of repayment of tranches of overdue loans by means of a new loan. The risk of realising the guarantee will also be mitigated by the fact that the total amount of loans from the three Member States that received the most financial assistance may not exceed 60% of the total amount of the facility, i.e. EUR 60 billion, and that the repayment due by the European Union in a given year shall not exceed 10% of the total amount of the facility. It is therefore not possible to recover the full amount of the guarantee from the Member States in the short term. The facility has been set up as a temporary one and offers additional funding to national short-term labour market measures already taken by Member States or to measures that are still under way. The Member State can apply for financial assistance from the facility if the public expenditure on labour market measures is s. a from 1 February to 1 February due to the crisis in COVID-19. The facility can be applied for until the end of 2021, and this need will be assessed every six months from the start of the facility. What is the impact of all this on Estonia? It is a specific and time-limited guarantee agreement. Accepting the decision will lead to an increase in the state's potential liabilities to the amount of Estonia's guarantee, i.e. 48.7 million euros. In reality, however, the obligation arises when the guarantee materialises and Estonia has to pay the Commission the amount requested on the basis of the warranty requirement or the additional warranty requirement. Participation in the guarantee also gives Estonia the opportunity to borrow from the funding in order to finance short-term labour market measures or planned expenditure on favourable terms. The estimated amount of the loan to finance short-term labour market measures under the measures is currently known to be up to EUR 350 million. However, the specific amount of the loan will be shown in the negotiations with the Commission. Whether we take out a loan from financing depends on more precise lending conditions, on the country's cash flow needs and on other funding opportunities. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The granting of loans from the financing will only start once all Member States have approved participation in the guarantee and the Commission has concluded guarantee agreements with each Member State. As this crisis is of unusually high impact, including the impact on the labour market, it is in the interest of all Member States that the facility be operational quickly. Participation in the State guarantee also allows Estonia to apply for loans to finance labour market measures. Thank you for your attention. I am happy to answer the questions and, of course, I call for this draft to be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U267	Questions. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U268	Thank you. And thank you for the invitation. I always love to see Saul become Paul. After all, you have always cursed all kinds of European solidarity. We do not really need this money, others do, and you are willing to sacrifice Estonia, Estonia provides a guarantee. I remember how Sauls became Paul in the case of the ESM, which I defended very effectively. Then the countries of southern Europe made radical reforms against the loan and made themselves able to borrow. How do you solve this contradiction in your head? So far, you have also been very keen against the ESM, and you have suggested that I take the floor in Estonian politics at all. At the same time, it was a loan programme with strict conditions, and at the moment you are providing an unconditional guarantee in full solidarity. Please explain the way in which you changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U269	Thank you. What's going on in my head? Of course, this invitation not to speak is still valid. But there is a very fundamental difference between the ESM and this particular thing. I'm still trying to take that background apart if we have to hold this debate. The ESM is a new system operating outside the European Treaties, not to help Greece, but to protect the euro, the banking of the core European countries in the crisis. This helped Greece very little, of course. With this scheme, we paid for real money. Jurgen, pay attention! We paid in real money, and we didn't get anything back. In fact, we are still talking about countries that are experiencing economic difficulties or credit difficulties, which have come into existence as a result of their economic policies, as a result of their choices. Today we are talking about all the European countries that are experiencing a crisis, not as a result of their own choices, but as a result of China's choices. And we don't pay anything in, but we can borrow from it. That's the main difference: we're taking out a loan from there. If our guarantee is 48 million, we can take 350 million if we want. Whether we want to take it or not, it has not been decided on this day, it depends on our needs. These are very different things, although you might try to show that there isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U270	Jürgen Ligi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U271	Thank you. Try again, it didn't work out. In the case of the ESM, we have actually achieved stabilisation of the entire European economic environment and we have essentially isolated ourselves from the risk of credit. In this case, we provide the guarantee jointly and severally, but we do not need the money ourselves. At that time, we had a great interest in saving markets, saving the eurozone by helping certain countries that have to reform themselves out of trouble. The logic actually exists between these two systems, but try to find it. It's clear now that we don't need money, others need money, we give guarantees. Please try to explain again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U272	Thank you. But maybe we can still see how Paul became Saul. Where is all this talk about solidarity? Solidarity, Jürgen, solidarity! Ten years ago, everyone needed solidarity and now suddenly they do not. I am still trying to get back to the fact that one or two Member States were rescued at the time, or that one or two Member States were actually rescued from the euro and the euro area banking, that we paid in real money and that we also made a real guarantee, which is still considerably higher than what we are giving now, and that there was no benefit. Abstract talk about how we got a better European Union or a better economic environment, well, okay, you have to say something. But we also gave the ESM a guarantee, didn't we? There's a guarantee, plus we actually paid the deposit. In seven days, if we have to, we'll put that guarantee into practice. But even more importantly, the ESM is not, at least at the moment it was created, in any way, part of the existing European contracts and funding system. I still come back to the fact that what happened at the time was a question of the economic choices of the Member States. I am not quite sure that we agree unambiguously that it was in our interest to do so at the time, but these, I say, are still not comparable things today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U273	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U274	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Dear waitress, I am glad that you have become Paul, and I do not think you should explain to the hall that you are still Saul. But my question is whether Estonia could need a loan from there and what alternatives should be realised so that Estonia could take a loan from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U275	Thank you. It should be taken into account that this particular scheme is still a relatively specific target. We have quite a set of things on which this money can be spent at all. As far as I have been trying to find out whether the maximum amount that Estonia can use from there is actually spent, whether we have actually spent so much money, I can say, obviously not. It takes a lot of fantasy to get a maximum of that. It's a theoretical calculation now, isn't it? But if you ask what these things are, then broadly speaking, let's say, the biggest piece could be the same labour market measure that has been done through the unemployment fund, maybe a few more things with a smaller volume. Do we want to borrow from there? Well, that depends. We do not yet have a picture of the price at which the Commission will continue to offer this loan. I would point out once again that this is a pure loan scheme. This is not the same thing as the so-called European recovery fund from which the agenda began when a loan is taken and the loan is paid to the Member States. It is a loan scheme, the Commission takes credit and lends it to the Member States that want it. For me, it's pure pragmatism, which is or isn't the price of this loan. We have borrowed from the market and borrowed at quite reasonable prices. It is likely that this loan will be more advantageous, but you just need to see what these conditions are.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U276	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U277	Thank you. Good waitress! You answered the question that distinguishes TERA and ESM. But I ask you what connects these two. Maybe you can say your point of view here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U278	Yes, these are very important intellectual exercises: find ten differences and ten similarities, etc. Well, you can't find ten similarities. What's the connection between all of them? Concerns about the functioning of the common market are likely to unite. I think it is the biggest cover above these two things, the concern about the functioning of the common market or, more specifically, about the functioning of the single currency. In this situation, there is still a point in the agreements that provides for the possibility of helping Member States in these ways. I must admit that, in my opinion, this DEA or TERA, whatever we call it, was in some respects a kind of weather balloon that was tested to see if later the 750 times bigger plan would work. These meetings, which I attended in April, the meetings of the European Finance Ministers or also the European Council, I am not sure that you were in good faith in presenting this scheme. But in our time, we gave it our approval, in the hope that it might be enough not to ask for more. However, there has not been a Member State that would have found this scheme to be incompatible with the Treaties. When we come back to the ESM, it was certainly not possible to reconcile an ESM-like scheme with the Treaties at the time it was made. [[A voice from the hall.]] I'm so smart.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U279	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U280	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I am ignorant of this, but I do understand that we are now taking a decision on a state guarantee. If we need that money, we'll take it from there, won't we? What I'm interested in is that this amount is like a very weird amount of EUR 48716500. Why does he go up to a single euro? What does it come from? That's the first question. And there's another one. Let's look at the black script, let's put it this way. We need that money, we're borrowing it. What does it look like, the dividend to be paid for this loan? Do you have a number or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U281	Yeah, why is it almost going to the euro? The reason is in the distribution key, the distribution key is very accurate and the distribution key is figuratively calculated to the decimal place. If realization goes hand in hand, as I said in my introductory presentation, no more than 10% will be realised during the year, which means that it should not be more than 4.8 million. But the whole thing doesn't go sour at the same time, does it? It is likely that there is a country in which this refund is not made in time, that country is being sought for any extensions or new loans, so that even a small part of this amount can be realised at once. We are talking here about a piece of a maximum amount of EUR 1 million that we should have to pay in theory if our guarantees are to be collected.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U282	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U283	Thank you. Good waitress! My previous question was about the backwards and the common part, my next question is about the forwards and the same thing about the common part. The Prime Minister presented here today with a political statement on the plan to relaunch the economy, and you are currently defending the TERA package here. What is the common element of these two measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U284	Thank you. Well, the common part is undoubtedly the COVID-19 crisis, that is clear. We would not be talking about any of these things here if it had not been for the corona crisis and its severe impact on the economy and the demand from very many Member States, say, for the European Union to help in any way, to come to the aid of this situation. In fact, such categorical demands, which clearly started to cause concern in Brussels that the European Union might now have a way of saying? - irreversible or irreparable gaps. If you look at the common part, the 750 billion, which is in the recovery package, is one part of the loan money, though the smaller part. With this loan money, it is less controversial, it is far less controversial than the fact that the loan money is paid. What are the differences? I have to mention them, of course. The differences are that if the TERA package does not create anyone's feeling that there is a conflict with the Treaty, then the issue of contradiction has been repeatedly raised and needs to be resolved in the case of the re-package. Of course, it is a matter of principle, just as Article 310 of the Treaty on European Union says that the European Union cannot finance itself with a loan. At present, we see that TERA is not its own financing with a loan, but the European Union is borrowing cheap money from the markets to lend it to the Member States, but this recovery package is different in nature: the European Union is lending money from the markets to distribute it to the Member States. It's a clean deficit, a cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U285	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U286	Thank you. Dear Minister, It is true here that, after the crisis, we seem to be able to obtain revenues from all kinds of sources to recover the costs. It is very welcome in itself if it is necessary. But now I've started to associate with another thing, maybe not exactly on this subject, but still. You have also spoken in your party's election programme, for example, about receiving a billion euros in support from the United States. Is there any connection to this money or the issue of this support? Our defence forces may also need support. I made sure they even shut down the top sports group. I'll ask you and I'll check with you. Why don't you tell me a little bit about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U287	Thank you. Unfortunately, you must be saddened that this money has nothing to do with national defence or with possible subsidies from the United States to its allies. There's no connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U288	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as rapporteur for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U289	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu's decision to issue a state guarantee under Article 11 of Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 establishing the European Facility for Temporary Support to alleviate the Risk of Unemployment (TERA) in emergency situations resulting from the outbreak of COVID-19 was prepared for the first reading on 9 June. In the Committee on Finance, the draft was presented by Mr Helme, Minister of Finance, as the representative of its initiator. According to the draft decision of the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu grants the European Commission a state guarantee of EUR 48716500 on the basis of Article 11 of the Council of the European Union Regulation establishing a European facility for providing temporary support to alleviate unemployment risk in the event of an outbreak of COVID-19. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 12 noon on 16 June and, when the first reading is closed, to bring the draft to the Chamber for second reading on Wednesday 17 June, and the rapporteur was appointed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U290	Thank you very much. There are no questions. It is possible to make speeches on behalf of the political groups. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U291	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm happy to see how short my legs are with populism. Whatever Martin Helme has said will not hold water as soon as he has to take responsibility and carry into one of the portfolios called finance. The second topic, parallel, is money laundering this week. His main credo is to slander his predecessors and hate the European Union. His accusations or attacks on his predecessors vary from calling to silence, as he repeated here today, to suicide. On the subject of money laundering, there was a recommendation to me, a public recommendation that I commit suicide because in my time money was being laundered for me. This is extraordinarily lame, especially in a context where it itself has acquired infringement proceedings for us, it has itself fought at European level precisely because it is against European[anti-money laundering] cooperation and has also made foolish proposals for a draft that deals with money laundering. At the same time, it has long been proven that during the period for which he is calling for this suicide, the finance minister's administration was the best in Europe. There is nothing to say, regulations and the Financial Supervision Authority were the best in Europe, that is proven. In that sense, I have not heard any excuses. But today is the same. After all, we are talking about European solidarity, about a common effort to improve the economic situation with which everyone wins. The TERA measure in this respect is the most solidarity, the most pointless for us, we do not have any lending problems that we had in the past. Now we give a guarantee to those who have actually been sloppy with budgetary discipline in the past. They are not really responsible for the virus, but the virus is the one that pointed out their more severe disease also in terms of budget. There is no way to reconcile the words spoken here by the Minister of Finance, TERA, on what he praises, and what he has said here on the European Recovery Fund and what he has said on the ESM. Mr Sutt asked what would connect TERA and the European recovery mechanism. I'm saying the one thing that connects is that both of them have been said... Sorry, there's no TERA. The link between the ESM and the recovery mechanism is that both have been said by the Minister of Finance to be contrary to the European Treaty. With regard to the recovery measure, he has now withdrawn, as if approved. I don't know why he has such a terrible respect for this European Treaty, but he has such a terrible respect for it all the time. Yes, it can be said that TERA is difficult to challenge from the point of view of the Treaty, but it is more difficult to approve from the point of view of the principles of EKRE and Martin Helme. We provide a guarantee of the interests of others to borrow just this is its mechanism. This could be confessed to by the Minister of Finance. However, he says that the ESM is something else. The ESM was a very clear pressure on fiscal laxity. These countries had to reform themselves; these countries received conditional loans; Estonia certainly did not need this loan. And what did we get back? The Minister of Finance could do a finger count. We certainly got more back in GDP than we actually gave up our contribution to liquidity. Surely we have won more of GDP than this capital contribution, which we also make at the expense of reserves, not at any expense. So just a little bit in the head, Mr Finance Minister, and less incoherent blaming and less incoherent talk about the European Union! At one point, we have to take responsibility, and now is the time, luckily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U292	There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. The negotiations are over. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 210. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 16 June at 12 noon.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U293	We will consider the 11th item, the draft law amending the Traffic Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic 191. Let's start reading it first. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U294	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, the bill on the amendment of the Traffic Act. The draft establishes rules and requirements for the use of light electric vehicles. The development of the draft is mainly driven by the widespread spread of electric drive wheels.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U295	The request is to speak a little louder.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U296	The amendments introduce a new category of vehicle with a light motor, which includes different electric vehicles for the carriage of one person, such as electric scooters, electric carriages and similar non-seat vehicles. A high - speed motor will continue to be classified as an equilibrium motor, with the difference that it may also have a seat. From technical requirements, the draft provides for a maximum permissible power of 1 kilowatt for light motor and a maximum permissible speed of 25 kilometres per hour. This must then be the speed given by the manufacturer. Requirements for the use of retro-reflectors and lights shall also be established. The draft allows a light motor vehicle to move primarily to a pedestrian and cyclist environment, i.e. roads for pedestrians and cyclists, while in the immediate vicinity of pedestrians it is necessary to drive at a non-cycling speed, i.e. the normal pedestrian speed, and to cross the road at the normal pedestrian speed. The light motor is also allowed to travel on a bicycle path. In exceptional cases, a light-mobile may also be used on the road, on the right-hand side of the area, and only if the part of the road intended for pedestrians or cyclists is either missing or difficult to travel due to its condition or traffic conditions. A driver under 16 years of age must wear a restrained helmet when driving along the road. The driver shall be subject to an age limit which shall also apply to a cyclist when driving on the road and on the bicycle track and, exceptionally, when driving on the road described above. This means that a light motor driver, aged 10 to 15, is required to drive a bicycle. In the case of dark or low visibility, light-mobile lights shall have front and rear lights. If it is not possible to fit them in construction, a light source shall be used by the driver in the dark or in the event of poor visibility. At the same time, driving on the road is prohibited without proper lights. The prohibition on driving when intoxicated also applies to the driving of light motor vehicles. Fine rates will also be set. The level of fines is equal to the level of fines imposed on pedestrians and cyclists. That's it. I would ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U297	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U298	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question concerns § 321, where the term "normal footer speed' is used in two places. As a general rule, we really understand what the legislator has meant here, but let's say honestly that the speed of pedestrians is actually very different. My own speed last week was much faster than many other pedestrians. But that's it. I ask because if we put something into the law, it is important, and in a conflict situation, the driver of a light-mobile can say, even though he moved fast, that he had normal pedestrian speed. I'm reading here that he has to cross the road at normal pedestrian speed. To tell you the truth, I still haven't seen a single driver of light traffic to do this. In that sense, it's just a problem, I'm not ironic. We're putting something into the law, but there's a lot of comprehension here. Why don't you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U299	Thank you. There are no rules currently applicable to light road users or those called "light-mobile road users" in the future, and when they cross the road, they are free to choose how they do it. As regards the normal speed of pedestrians, this concept has been included in the Traffic Act today, which is not a new concept. The normal pedestrian speed is 3 to 7 kilometres per hour. But it's nothing new, it's already in the law of traffic.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U300	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U301	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This is certainly a worthwhile initiative. Light - moving people have been a new part of our daily life for some years. Certainly their importance is growing and this issue needs to be regulated. But would you shed some light on this debate and argument as to why it was decided that light motorists would be more on the pedestrian or sidewalk than on the road? It is a difficult question, and choosing the right path is certainly difficult, but I think it would be good to know here in the Riigikogu, too, what those arguments were on one side or the other, and why this [decision] was made that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U302	Thank you. Indeed, it is a place of choice, but certainly a light motor on the road is more at risk than on the sidewalk when it moves at a reasonable speed. The truth is that a light-mobile driver does not fit 100 per cent into any category of existing means of transport [drivers], but rather is still more similar to a balance-mobile driver. Therefore, especially for safety reasons, it was found that the main route should be on the sidewalk, also considering that very many users of light motor vehicles are children. Allowing children on the road would certainly be more dangerous than allowing light road users as a whole to become more on the sidewalk.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U303	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U304	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The speed is known to be regulated for a very long time. There has been a major technological development in measuring and detecting speed. We were told here the other day that there were even robot judges. Turns out they're traffic cameras that measure speed and immediately sentence. This bill says that the maximum speed is set at 25 kilometres per hour for light motion. I wonder how it's gonna be measured.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U305	Thank you. Well, the police will have to deal with that measurement. The police have accepted this wording and therefore have the opportunity to follow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U306	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U307	Thank you. Well, that's a complicated regulation, isn't it? I wouldn't say I'm terribly welcoming this bill, it's also questioning. I can't imagine, for example, a pedestrian with normal speed. What is the point of a vehicle if you have to travel at the same pace as a pedestrian? But I understand that there are problems and incidents here, there is a dispute over this, there is a desire to regulate. But that's what I'm asking. Its parallel is a bicycle. You didn't bring any parallels to the bike. I've just been asked that your ministry is preparing the exact same thing for cyclists, that they move at the usual pedestrian speed, which makes me angry. Although I'm not on the sidewalks, I can't imagine a bike rider being compared to a pedestrian. Is that the plan? So how do you regulate these two modes of movement separately? How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U308	Thank you. First of all, as far as this speed is concerned, the bill says that in the immediate vicinity of a pedestrian, on the sidewalk, you have to travel at normal pedestrian speeds. And it's not being prepared, but the law of traffic already states that if you're riding a bicycle on the sidewalk, on a pedestrian road, you have to move in the immediate vicinity of a pedestrian at normal pedestrian speed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U309	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U310	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You have rightly pointed out that it is dangerous to send children on the road. This morning, I witnessed this, that children were probably used to going to kindergarten with their parents in the morning, especially in the city centre of Tallinn, that it was safe to move on the sidewalk, and a little bit of the older children would also run ahead of the parents if the person who came with the scooter had practically hit the baby. We do not have sidewalks in the centre of Tallinn, where the bicycle or its motorist is assigned, all moving in a common area. If it's unsafe to send young people on the road with which I agree, believe me, it's very unsafe to walk the children's sidewalk if they don't know at what point someone might just hit them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U311	Thank you. Well, if it is established, be as it is with all [other rules]. Today, as I said, there are no rules, nothing to be taken into account when something happens. When rules are laid down, it is just as if they were to be complied with by all traffic rules, that they simply have to be complied with and that if they do not, an accident will happen and a penalty will follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U312	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U313	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. I fully agree with my colleague Jürgen Ligi that this is a highly complex draft and raises questions. Reasonable speed, how does it have to be understood? Is it planned to draw markings on the sidewalks, for example, that a pedestrian walks on the right side and there is a rider on the left, or something that makes things clearer?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U314	Thank you. In terms of speed, there are two boundaries, one is up to 25 kilometers per hour, and the other is a pedestrian's normal speed on the sidewalk in the immediate vicinity of a pedestrian. Well, you can drive a little faster, you can pass, you don't have to quite follow, you don't have to pass, but you can't drive, but you can't drive, you can't drive, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't take the speed of a pedestrian. In that sense, the frames are. I certainly agree that it is very difficult to impose any rules on electric motors at all. I myself think that those that have finally been found here are relatively good solutions. As far as these sidewalks are concerned, as far as possible it will certainly be used, it will be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U315	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U316	Thank you. In answer to your previous question, when I asked you about speeding a light motor, 25 kilometers per hour, you said that the police would know if that speed was exceeded. It's a practical question. If the police know this, can we assume that there will be some level of fines if the speed is exceeded? I would, of course, add that this is largely a matter of cultural attitudes and behaviour, and it concerns, I understand, mainly, big cities. There's, like, more room elsewhere. But a little bit about when those fines are coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U317	Thank you. This draft also sets fine rates, but they are similar to those imposed on cyclists and pedestrians. There's nothing bigger.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U318	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U319	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The previous discussion raised in me the current question of how the relationship between a cyclist and a pedestrian is between the traffic law, I do not know, according to the new version laid down on the light traffic routes, not on the sidewalks, but on the light traffic routes. If riders have to start passing pedestrians on the sidewalks at pedestrian speed, how does this happen on pedestrian roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U320	Thank you. These restrictions on cyclists apply to pedestrian areas. On the road to light traffic, a bike can travel faster than a pedestrian's speed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U321	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U322	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. The question of Urve Tiidus continues. Who will control the road users, whether the police or somebody else will do so, and will they come by radar to measure it, or what will it look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U323	Thank you. The police are always in charge of enforcement of traffic regulations. How exactly is the speed of a light road user fixed? I think it's possible to fix it with this radar.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U324	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U325	Thank you. Perhaps a question for you as former mayor of Tallinn. I'm on a bicycle in Tallinn, and in fact, it's relatively, let's say, for the brave. Now a whole series of rules are being put in place here, but if there are no bike routes in the city centre and there is no way to move as required by the rules, simply because there is no infrastructure, then how is the local government held accountable to have a proper infrastructure and to be able to travel with the bike and their micromobility and everything?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U326	Thank you. Tallinn has its own programme for the development of light traffic routes, and Tallinn is definitely moving forward according to this programme. I very much hope, in the light of all the debates that were before the outbreak of the virus, which concerned the budget period for the coming year, also the budgetary period of the European Union, that the funds intended for the construction of a network of light traffic routes will remain and will be taken forward in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U327	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U328	Thank you. I still hope that speed will be slowed down around the pedestrian. But I want to ask you this. Does anyone measure the speed of cyclists? We've got Wolt and Bolt on the sidewalks at such a rate that you don't know where to jump if you're gonna go next to them on a narrow road. Today I haven't heard anyone give cyclists a ticket. Drivers are subject to heavy fines. Not that I'm a terrible advocate of fines, but if there are accidents, as far as I've heard and my acquaintances have spoken, those cyclists who have caused the accident often leave the scene. There's no number behind the bike, so catch the wind in the field. If the driver's doing something, he's wrong, he's responsible, but here, it's kind of unaccountable. It's especially sad to watch the kids, the little kids are on the sidewalk, and then the high-speed grown-ups are driving.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U329	Thank you. But it's not a matter of general traffic culture. There are certainly cyclists who adhere very precisely to the rule, and there are certainly cyclists who do not do it so precisely. Jalgrattures come from year to year, and probably people who don't comply with traffic regulations. Once again, the normal pedestrian speed must be maintained when moving around a pedestrian on a bicycle sidewalk. You can't go in there. If anyone gets caught, the police are entitled to fine him because it's a traffic violation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U330	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U331	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I have a simple question. How does this road user's bike, or with what was the new name on a light machine, know how fast he's going? I don't think there's a speedometer on my bike. How do I know I'm crossing it now 25 kilometers an hour? The police can see with the radar, but the driver can't see.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U332	Thank you. Well, it's a question of making a habit if there's no speedometer on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U333	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U334	Thank you. Actually, you didn't actually answer my question. The most important thing is, I mean, if a pedestrian's around or passing him, they're gonna slow down. But do we have anyone fine cyclists? I haven't heard the police are out yet, and if someone drives past a pedestrian at high speed, they'll fine him.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U335	Thank you. I thought I was trying to say that in the immediate vicinity of a pedestrian, a bicycle would have to ride on the sidewalk at the speed of a pedestrian. That is exactly how the traffic code states it. How much it's fined, I don't know how much it's gonna be, but there's an opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U336	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U337	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned the numbers for these vehicles, 1 kilowatt, I think, and 20 kilometers per hour. Today, people have certainly acquired more powerful vehicles. Does the new law now mean that they are no longer allowed to travel with them at all? The second question: do we also expect additional speed limit traffic signs, specifically thinking about these types of vehicles?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U338	Thank you. I don't know if there's any road signs to be expected. The draft also provides for a transitional period for those who have machines that move faster, which are more powerful and cannot be converted into light mopeds. Perhaps there is an opportunity to convert into a moped in certain cases, and then the following rules are already in place, no longer the rules for light motion. But there are certainly others that cannot be reorganized.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U339	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U340	Thank you. Dear Minister, You have repeatedly answered questions here today that a cyclist is allowed to travel on the sidewalk, and I assume that other drivers will be on the streets and already are at the same speed as a pedestrian. How, then, can pedestrians be passed by according to traffic regulations? I've seen a lot of cyclists passing pedestrians. Are they all breaking the traffic code?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U341	No, it doesn't mean that a pedestrian shouldn't pass, it can pass, but it can pass at a reasonable speed, practically the same speed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U342	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U343	Thank you. For some reason, I do not think that there are many pedestrians at this speed of 30 kilometres, referring to the previous question. But I still come to § 32 (2) when cycling on the road and on the pavement is permitted. It says: "... riding on a bicycle track is significantly difficult due to its condition or traffic conditions and... ' Here's the question. In Tallinn, when we talk about the city centre, these bicycle tracks, which are on the road, are all very, very dangerous. Can it be said, then, that all these bicycle trails in the city centre go under paragraph 2, in fact, you are free to drive along the sidewalks because this condition and the traffic conditions correspond to the fact that it is life-threatening to drive there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U344	Thank you. First of all, this 25 km is the maximum speed that the factory has allowed, i.e. which has been approved. These [mobility] are called light motioners. If this speed is higher, then it is already some other means of transport and it no longer falls under this category. As regards the city centre of Tallinn, if there is a roadway and it is possible to drive on the road, it is possible for a light-mobile driver to choose whether to drive on a road where you can drive a little faster or on a sidewalk. If there are pedestrians there, their speed must be monitored.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U345	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U346	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You used the term'reasonable speed' here when talking about passing a pedestrian on a bicycle. In my opinion, if there is something in the law that gives interpretation, it will be done immediately. What a reasonable speed is different for everyone. I imagine I'm gonna be breathing on a bike from 40 kilometers, but the sportsman Jaanson isn't even gonna sweat. How do we set this reasonable speed in law? What does that mean, what's the content of that expression going to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U347	No, the content of this expression is safety. You'll have to pass safely. In the event of a threat, the rules have already been broken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U348	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. Next, I call Mr Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U349	President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission discussed the draft 191 at its meeting on 9 June. The Commission meeting was working, and I did not see any differences between the worldview and the political scene; the issues were constructive. I have to say that your questions in this room were even more practical, I ripped them up, and I'm sure I'll look at the verbatim. We will certainly analyse and discuss all the bottlenecks that you have highlighted in this Chamber today and which we had not noticed in the Commission before the second reading and amendments are tabled. But one of the issues that you may not have had in this Chamber, but which was raised in the Commission, was that the Ministry planned and planned to bring the draft law on light motorists into this hall at the beginning of the season, but now we are probably only going to make it to second reading and adoption in the autumn, the whole season is going away. I don't think they're gonna put skis aside and start driving more light motion. Then why didn't it get here sooner? It was a matter of the European Union and of the type-approvals, and, of course, the special situation came up a little bit. There are still many gaps in this scope, but better some kind of regulation in an area that today works entirely without regulation. We also discussed other road traffic law issues in the Commission, which do not relate to this draft. I am not going to talk about them here for a long time, but perhaps the amendments will reflect something in the future. So, ladies and gentlemen, I call for amendments to be tabled, for a very thorough discussion of this issue in the political groups, and we will certainly do the same in the Commission. The Commission adopted such proposals: to put the draft on today's agenda (but I would not be here at the moment) and to propose that the first reading be closed. This was done in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U350	You have questions too. Kristina Shmigun-Luke.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U351	But, unfortunately, Kristina Shmigun-Luke cannot ask the third question. So why don't you come down the hall and I'll answer you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U352	Yeah, that's the third one, really. You're gonna have to talk in the hall after. But Kaido Haevalson has a completely first question, so please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! As regards the Commission: since this is a law amending the law on traffic, and there is a great deal of electricity in it, is the question raised about the moped car? You're a countryman, I'm a countryman. There's a lot of them moving around. Did you have a discussion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U354	Yeah, I got that moped car at home, I feel it pretty good. But, good Kaido, the bill doesn't deal with this. The draft concerns only light motor vehicles. But surely, if you have a wish (in this area of moped cars, perhaps something needs to be clarified and there are a lot of questions for me), then you can make amendments, and then we will be able to deal with them in committee and find these good solutions with you. I went on this slippery road and began to say that there were also issues in the Commission concerning the traffic law as a whole or other issues, such as the carriage of students on buses, which is not the subject of this draft. If there are such necessary things that could be changed by means of amendments, these proposals are all welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U355	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U356	Thank you, Mr President. Good Kalvi! I still ask whether the Commission discussed what this reasonable speed is and how it will be controlled. What's reasonable speed? What is the Commission's position on what is reasonable speed? As the Minister said, we must pass at pedestrian speed. But how is that possible? Did the Commission discuss this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U357	Good Andrus! The honest answer is that we didn't discuss it. I guess we have more people on the Commission who drive the bike that stays on the ground, just waving on pedals, I mean the chairman of our committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U358	Thank you, good waitress. No more questions for you. Now we have the opportunity to open negotiations if the representatives of the political groups have a wish to speak. But I don't think so. No negotiations. The commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 191. The first reading is finished. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 1 July at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U359	We will go to the next item, the first reading of the draft railway law 201 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Once again, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to speak here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U360	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The aim of the draft is to transpose the directives of the European Union and to organise the mixed structure of the amended law on several occasions and to clarify the provisions in force. Since its adoption, the Rail Act has been extensively and repeatedly amended more than 30 times, which has made the text of the Law difficult to read at times and has brought a number of top-scripts and several-page sections into the text. It is also not possible at times to add additional provisions to the appropriate place, which is why a new full text has been developed. This draft railway law is essentially a law amending the existing railway law, in which the existing text is supplemented by provisions resulting from the new directives and which have been drafted in full. The Directives that are to be transposed by the draft are the recasting of the earlier directives in the field, i.e. to a large extent the clarification of existing regulations. Some updates have been added. The main substantive change resulting from the first Directive on the interoperability of the rail system in the European Union concerns the authorisation of placing rolling stock in service. Subsequently, the applicant may submit an application to the European Union Railway Agency or to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. An application for authorisation may be submitted to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority if the vehicle is intended to be used on the Estonian railway network. Where several Member States have a use, the application must be submitted to the Railway Authority. In order to harmonise application procedures, an electronic single contact point has been established at the Railway Agency through which all applications are submitted. The main substantive change resulting from Directive 2016/798 on railway safety concerns the regulation of the infrastructure manager's safety authorisation and the railway undertaking's safety certificate. Both the construction licence and the safety certificate still consisted of Parts A and B, and no distinction will be made between the different parts in the future, reducing the administrative burden and saving time in the process of the permit. The safety certificate to be issued to the railway undertaking will be referred to as a single safety certificate and, by analogy with the vehicle authorisation regulation, the applicant will be able to choose to submit the application here. The option arises where an undertaking wishes to operate in only one country, in which case the application may be submitted to the railway authority or the technical monitoring agency of its choice. If more than one Member State is the area of operation, the application must be submitted to the railway authority. In addition, the regulation of the entity responsible for maintenance of the rolling stock for which the necessary certificate is issued by the Technical Surveillance Authority has been added. There are also some national changes to the draft, which are largely specific and up-to-date in the current rule. The administrative burden on the undertaking will also be partly reduced by removing the obligation to submit the Code of Conduct and the Transport Code to the Technical Surveillance Authority for approval. In order to comply with the requirements of the various acts of the European Union, which provide that penalties for infringements must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive, the levels of penalties have been amended as they have been essentially unchanged since 2004. At the same time, it should be taken into account that there are practically no infringements and there is no significant impact. In addition, the level of the state fee shall be reduced when an application is submitted to the Technical Surveillance Authority through the e-Service Information System and additional fees shall be added for the examination of the application for the authorisation of maintenance and repair of rolling stock and for the modification of the authorisation for the construction of rolling stock. It is a labour-intensive procedure, but so far the fee has not existed. There is also a change in the requirements for narrow-track rail, where the requirements are the same as those for conventional train traffic. At the moment, the regulation of the entire railway law is adapted to narrow-track railways when rail transport is carried out there, i.e. according to the current law, the manager of the museum railway should have a valid safety certificate. As museum railways also carry passengers on their railways, they are rail transport, but given the shut-down of the system, the low speeds and also the limited financial possibilities of museums, it is not appropriate to impose on them the same requirements as for an undertaking operating in the conventional rail system. The draft therefore intends to exclude museum railways from general regulation and to create minimum requirements for them to meet, but at the same time ensure safety. In the future, instead of a safety certificate, the museum railway will be required to have a safety guide and the description of the safety manual will simply have everything unwritten for the museum railway, which must be stated in the manual. The Safety Instructions shall be approved by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority and shall not require a separate state fee. The deadline for transposition has been extended until 31 October 2020. I would ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U361	Good Minister, there are questions for you. First Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U362	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You are certainly aware that the Minister of Social Affairs should be accompanied by the Accessibility Forum, which brings together representative organisations for people with disabilities. The aim of this forum is to advise the state on how to make public space accessible to disabled people. Has this law taken this into account, or have there been proposals to make railway stations more accessible to people with special needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U363	Thank you. First of all, what comes with this law. With this law, we no longer seek exceptions. Maybe if six months ago it was a big problem that we didn't take the exceptions off, then now these exceptions will disappear, no more exceptions will remain in force in Estonia. That's first. This concerns the presence of a railway station with a station worker who can assist a disabled person. In general, Estonian railway stations are quite well adapted to people with disabilities, and there are no major problems. True, the problem may be access to the railway station, access by itself. But for the most part, this access is not located on railway territory, but is usually located on the territory of the local government. So in these places, local authorities should ensure that people with disabilities can better access the platform. But where there's railroad property, it's mostly pretty good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U364	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U365	Good manager! Mr. Minister! It's a pleasure to see the law, not the law, but the law, for a long time. The purpose of this, I read, is to clarify the matter so that we can understand the Estonian language as well. But I'm reading it and, frankly, I don't understand. In order not to be naked, I quote the terms of the 2003 and 2020 laws. What's a train? 2003: the train is a coupled unit consisting of wagons. But by 2020, what do you offer us? Everything else is the same, but the train is only made up of a wagon. The wagons are gone. Let's see what a locomotive is. 2003: railway rolling stock equipped with power units used to carry trains. But by 2020, what do you offer us as a better option? It's tow cars. But at the same time, you say in 2020 that the train consists of a locomotive and a wagon, but not a wagon. So has he gotten any better, or what's the deeper point of this thing? My weak mind won't take it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U366	Thank you. That means there could be only one car. If you're looking at Elron's electric trains, for example, they're still trains, but they're basically a single formation. It's changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U367	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U368	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. Yes, you said the previous railway law was very complicated. Mr Ernits has already expressed his criticism of the new draft. I wonder how many interest groups were involved, who gave some advice, and if this new draft, which I have unfortunately not read, is shorter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U369	Thank you. I'm sure he's shorter, because there were a lot of retexts in the old bill. But yes, interest groups were involved. In total, 240 additions and corrections were presented to my memory, most of which were accounted for.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U370	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U371	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question stems from your answer to Mr Kersna's question. You replied that the exceptions would disappear, and you pointed out, for example, that the station worker had previously assisted. Would you open it a little bit, now that this law has been passed, will anyone in need no longer be assisted?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U372	On the contrary. We had asked for an exception to the application of this provision; now it disappears, i.e. if there is a station where there is a station worker, it is one of his duties to help a disabled person. Unfortunately, of course, in Estonia, there are not many such stations, but they are coming. For example, there should be a public transport centre or hub in Narva, where there will be buses and trains, and there will be a person who supports them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U373	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U374	Thank you. You didn't really answer with the previous answer. The locomotive is for the carriage of trains and now for the carriage of wagons, but this is for that purpose. Let us now take the international definition of rail: a rail transport system for the transport of people or goods; the railway is built for the movement of trains, trams and other rail transport. But your §1 (5) of the Act says that tramroad is not a railway. I understand that this new rail law has been put in place as a result of the so-called mating of the two Euro Directives and the earlier text. What's the point of being innovative? Or is it a European approach that does not match the international definition? Where's the background?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U375	In fact, there are many countries where the word "tramm" does not exist, is light train for example, it is used as a definition, light train or light railway. These are also brought into this law, such changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U376	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U377	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm still gonna go over it. When you drafted and coordinated this whole text with stakeholders, did this text also come in line with representative organisations for people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U378	There was cooperation with the representative organisation of persons with disabilities, unfortunately until March this year. Not because we didn't want to cooperate anymore, but then we just lost that cooperation because of the virus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U379	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I ask Jüri Jaanson, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs for a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U380	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed draft railway law 201 at its video bridge meeting on Tuesday 9 June, before sending it to first reading. Most members of the Commission were present, one was missing. The draft was introduced by the Minister, as he did here, and by specialists from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Okay. The Minister gave an overview, just as here, that, in addition to amending the text and structure of the current law, the railway law is supplemented by the provisions resulting from the directives and to a limited extent by the clarification of national requirements. He pointed out that the existing railway law had been very much amended more than 30 times since 2003, and that the text was difficult to read, so a new complete text had been drawn up. He also pointed out that the existing exceptions to help disabled people would be waived. Indrek Laineveer, Head of the Railway Service of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, spoke about the extension of the transposition of directives due to the COVID-19 virus. He said the new deadline for transposition was October 31st. Members of the Commission also had some questions. Is there still a need for any European Union directives to be adopted for the better functioning of rail law? No need, there will be two directives, and that is enough. There was an interest in how much of the full text of the draft railway law is made up of new amendments. There are few changes in substance, very few amendments, they concern the rules of operation, the waiver of approval of the transport rules and other technical texts of this kind. There was also an interest in the fact that, in general, changes to the whole text are justified when a third of the law becomes part of the law. Indrek Laineveer replied that the problem now is also that the law in force has been amended so much that the sections of the law have these primes and seconds [so many] that it is not possible to enter new changes there logically anymore. The new text is much better articulated and much more understandable. There was also an interest in whether the intention to develop this law should have been made. Margus Tähtpõld, an expert at the railway department of the Road and Railway Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, said that since, to a large extent, it is still a transposition of European Union law, there was no plan for development, there were little changes at national level and there were no alternatives to consider. To Liina and Helmen I would say, perhaps I would add to the Minister's statement that there is a separate section in the new rail law that sets a penalty or fine if a disabled person or a person with a movement restriction is not given assistance or information. I think it was § 170, and there are fine letters of fine, so there are coercive measures. But I hope you don't need them. Finally, the decisions made. It was proposed to put the draft on today's agenda, i.e. on the agenda of 15 June 2020, to appoint Jüri Jaanson as rapporteur and to propose that the first reading be closed. All these proposals were consensual. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U381	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. If the political groups have any requests to speak, we will open negotiations. But there are no requests to speak and there are no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 201. We're done with the first reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 1 July at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U382	Today's latest draft, before we get to the enquiries, is draft law 202 on the organisation of the energy economy and the amendment of the natural gas law initiated by the Government of the Republic. First reading. The rapporteur is Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U383	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I present the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of the energy economy and the Law on the amendment of the Law on natural gas. Its aim is to transpose the new obligations arising from the Energy Efficiency Directive into the Estonian legal order. The transposition of the Directive will help Estonia and the European Union as a whole to achieve energy efficiency objectives. Increasing energy efficiency is one of the main objectives of Estonia's energy economy. To sum up, the draft introduces four amendments. A country's overall energy saving obligation for the period 2021 to 2024 shall be established. At European Union level, it has been agreed that the overall energy saving obligation for all Member States is 0.8% per year compared to the average consumption in the years 2016 to 2018. For us, this means approximately 14,8 sharp hours, and this obligation is largely met by measures that are already in work. For example, support for the reconstruction of apartment buildings, which only recently received additional funding. Secondly, the information on invoices will be complemented by the current requirements and will set the minimum which the consumer must show on the bill. The aim of this amendment is to raise consumer awareness and ensure that consumers know what they are being billed for. Additional information will be available for each end-user. For example, for remotely readable measuring instruments, consumption information, current prices, fuel used, quantity of greenhouse gas emissions, price components, including taxes, need to be included in the bill in order to compare consumption (your previous consumption, average consumption and consumption schedules), complaint procedures, etc. If there are no remotely readable meters, the number of billing information will be lower. Electricity bills already have similar information, for example. Third, it contributes to reducing energy poverty. In implementing energy efficiency measures, we also take into account the possibilities of mitigating energy poverty. Measures to reduce energy poverty are already under way. For example, support for the reconstruction of apartment buildings is higher in areas where incomes are lower. The requirements for measuring instruments for domestic hot water, cooling and gas consumption shall be specified. It shall be assessed whether and in what form remotely readable meters are reasonable or economically and technically reasonable. Where reasonable, remote meters shall be installed by 1 January 2027. The use of remotely readable meters gives the consumer the opportunity to keep a closer eye on their consumption and to change their consumption patterns accordingly, while the network operator can find faults more easily. For example, in the case of electricity, we have had fully-readable meters for several years. In conclusion, the aim of the draft law is to transpose the new obligations arising from Directive 2018/2002, which will help us achieve the targets set by energy efficiency. One of the European Union's objectives for energy management is to reduce energy consumption by at least 32.5% by 2030. Estonia wishes to keep its final energy consumption at the 2010 level, 32.8 terawatt-hours per year. Final consumption is, in a simple way, energy reaching home. Since our economy has so far grown two times faster than the European Union economy on average, we can prevent growth in consumption in final consumption and achieve a real reduction in primary energy consumption, i.e. final consumption, losses and energy consumed in energy production. I would ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U384	Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Evgeny Ossinovski has his hand up, do you have a procedural question? Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U385	Thank you! I also have questions about the bill, but now it's procedural. The explanatory memorandum states that Annex 3 to the explanatory memorandum reflects the comments made to the coordination that they are in the coordination table. I look at this bill that has been made available to the members of the Riigikogu and there is no coordination table here, or at least I do not find it. Can you tell me where this Annex 3 is?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U386	Isn't that Annex 2, sorry? For the most part, Annex 2 contains coordination tables. [[J. Ossinovski will specify the floor.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U387	Unfortunately, I cannot answer that question. Maybe it's just been left out of the account by accident. But as a rule, all these documents are also visible on the website. If it's not here, it's possible to find it on the website, I believe. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U388	Thank you! It is probably possible to find the website, but we do have a general order that the Commission prepares the draft materials in such a way that members of the Riigikogu can work with them in the Chamber. This has not been done at the moment, or at least I have not been given this material by the President of the sitting. The usual behaviour in this situation is to take the chairman's break and make this coordination table available. It is not a question of how I want to break hair, but there are procedures in Parliament and compliance with them is of fundamental importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U389	Thank you. We have had such precedents before, but since all documents are available electronically, it is not appropriate to announce a break. By electronic means, you can find all the materials you need. Jevgeni Ossinovski, a question for the Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U390	At this point, I would like to look at this table of coordination and then ask the Minister questions about it. I do not have any electronic tools available at the moment, which would allow me to review it in about ten seconds to ask these questions. I would have liked to have done so, I tried to find it [in the table] when the Minister did his introduction. I couldn't find it. This material wasn't available. How am I supposed to behave in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U391	In such a situation, it is likely that these materials should have been examined in advance. Unfortunately, this is not possible at the moment. [[Voice on the side.]] How? But our kind exhibitors are ready to bring you this table on paper, so if all ladies and gentlemen are willing to wait a moment, Mr Ossinovski will also receive his supplement on paper, which he is interested in. Yes, please, a microphone for Evgeny Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U392	In order not to waste time, I thank you for that! I will ask one question, which is indeed on the surface of the draft text, and then I will be able to look at this table. Dear Minister, This draft introduces some new definitions under the Directive. Such a set of concepts arises in some way around a subject that your good party companion once spoke well about (if you were not yet in state-class power and he had not yet gone to Europe). Yana Toom was talking about social electricity. Now these concepts will be introduced into this draft or law so that vulnerable groups can be offered preferential energy cost compensation. But I didn't understand the bill. Please shed light on the way in which the Government of the Republic intends to support vulnerable groups in electricity billing [for payment] after the transfer of concepts?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U393	Yes, there is indeed such a concept as 'an energyless person'. In fact, we already support people who are in a difficult situation. For example, we have a different rate of support for house reconstruction measures; in Tallinn the rate of support is 30%; in rural areas this rate is 50%. It already works in the direction that where there are people on lower incomes, support is also provided. Similarly, separate measures are provided for young families through KredEx.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U394	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U395	Thank you. My second question concerns this general objective of a third reduction in primary energy consumption by 32.5%, which is quite significant, across the European Union by 2030. Estonia's target, on the other hand, is 0.8% per year. I'm trying to put these two documents together right now and I need some clarification. In this energy plan, which is referred to here, which was summarised at government level in December, I will look at a schedule. I'll show you, too. This shows that Estonia's primary energy consumption is generally at exactly the same level. While we're looking at the numbers you're saying, we're talking about some sort of reduction, but the graphs that are in the energy plan aren't showing that reduction. That's one. How do you explain that there are over 60 terawatt-hours of primary energy consumption in this energy plan, but you have 57.7 in the bill and then 10% less? How do you interpret these numbers like that? Secondly, is this not too little ambition compared to the overall objective of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U396	Thank you. No, our ambition is certainly not small. As I said in the report, the growth of the Estonian economy is twice or more rapid than the growth of the European economy as a whole. Therefore, if we can maintain the 2010 level, as we want in this draft, then we have actually been very good in ourselves and very ambitious.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U397	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U398	Thank you. In one part of your report or reply, you indicated that the support for renovation of KredEx's houses, granted according to incomes in the region, is different. If you are talking about these regions, which are clearly out of this golden circle and perhaps out of the area of Tartu, what is your expectation and hope and assumption of how many additional projects will be carried out there, based on the fact that the possible support could be greater?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U399	Thank you. I very much hope that projects will be carried out more than before, because there has never been a 50% subsidy rate before. The second, which is the first, is that we have a loan for this own contribution in KredEx, which is 20 million. If there is an area where banks cannot obtain loans, precisely because the value of the property is low, it is possible to apply for additional loans from KredEx to cover the own contribution. He gets up to 50% and then he gets more credit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U400	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U401	Thank you. In the light of your answer, and perhaps the first question would continue, I ask this question whether calculations were made at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. This one question, which you yourself have pointed out, relates, on the one hand, to the market value of possible real estate compared to other regions. When you put this potential 50% support on one scale, you calculated this possible loan, did you find the assumption that it could help or make people actually invest? Or is it rather a question of people giving up in the long run and looking for a way out of this real estate, or regionally speaking, still moving away from these areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U402	Thank you. Here again, there are two different measures. It is a measure for apartment buildings and a measure for ordinary houses. You can also apply for this allowance from there. Yes, of course, both the tenants and the owners' association worked together to develop it. Looks like it could be a working option.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U403	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. Next, I would like to ask for Mr Rimmel, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U404	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I bring to you the minutes of the meeting of the Economic Commission concerning draft law 202 presented by Taavi Asa. Protocol No 65 of 9 June. Taavi Aas, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure, Moonika Parksepp, Head of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Jaanus Uiga, and expert Tauno Hilimon, were invited. Meeting item No 4, Draft Act amending the Energy Organisation Act and the Natural Gas Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to send the discussion to first reading. These visitors were heard, asked questions and answered in connection with this draft. Since Taavi Aas presented a sufficiently precise overview of what happened and the draft law in both the Commission and here today, I will not repeat the entire text to you. Jaanus Uiga, as Head of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, added that one of the energy efficiency directives has already been adopted in Estonia and in this case it is an innovation. Across the European Union, the aim is to reduce annual energy consumption, as mentioned here, by at least 32.5%. Sven Sester asked whether they had been aligned with market participants and what their comments were. Jaanus Uiga said that the bill is subject to very large coordination rounds, which is why the introduction of this bill to 202 Riigikogu has been delayed. The deadline for transposition of the Directive is, in fact, already at the end of June 2020. Rather, they want to discuss matters with market participants calmly and only then come to the Riigikogu with a bill, which was the decision of the Ministry. Concerns will certainly arise over time and will also be discussed at the final observation in the Riigikogu, but work will be done to resolve these issues as soon as possible. Sven Sester pointed out that the deadline for transposing the directive was the end of June, but only the first reading in the Riigikogu could be done by then. Sester also examined whether there might be any sanctions if the directive was not transposed in time. Jaanus Uiga explained that the European Commission is relatively flexible on these issues, given the situation that has arisen worldwide. The Ministry announces that the bill has already been passed on to the Riigikogu and will be completed in autumn. Uiga was also confident that major sanctions would not be applied, as it is possible to report precisely that the draft has already been passed on to the Riigikogu, rather than being drafted. The speaker here asked about the increased use of electric cars, whether this would benefit this bill. Jaanus Uiga replied that the increased use of electric cars would contribute to the achievement of the objectives of this directive, as the efficiency of electric cars is significantly higher than that of conventional internal combustion engines. Therefore, the increased use of electric cars is to be welcomed. Kaido Rosin pointed out that Paragraph 1 (13) of the draft provides for the provision of additional information and consumption data to invoices. Rosin looked into the example of the building management company, who would be doing these calculations. Jaanus Uiga stated that this depends on the organisation of the building management company itself. The directive at the moment does not leave a 'free hand' to anyone in this matter, and all the information must be made available on invoices. The Estonian Association of Apartment Cooperatives has dealt with this issue in the drafting process and does not seem to have any major problems with it. It is possible to add any lines to the invoices by giving the accounting formula on the basis of which they are calculated. The directives have been applied in the past so that people can obtain accurate information on the basis of which the invoices are issued. However, the question at the moment is what is used as the basis for the calculation. The methodology is being developed and the information will also be provided to users. At the meeting of the Economic Commission, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 15 June 2020, to appoint Mr Rimmel as rapporteur and to propose that the first reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U405	Thank you. Good waitress, you have questions. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U406	Good waitress! I'd like to be more specific. If I understand correctly, a remotely readable gas meter must be installed in each apartment. I don't really know how I can explain my neighbor's mama in Narva why her apartment necessarily needs this fancy, long-range meter. Did the Commission also discuss whether it would make sense to install such meters?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U407	The installation of remotely readable meters is subject to the principle of reasonableness, pre-counting and calculating where remotely readable meters are installed, either on a house in general or in apartments separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U408	Thank you. Good waitress, no more questions for you. Evgeny Ossinovski, do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U409	Yeah, I didn't want to keep the honorable waitresses on the board, but now that I've looked through this grateful coordination table and then thought about the chair's comment, I just asked to be clear to me. Paragraph 73 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act states that the impossibility of discussing the agenda issue arises when the documents on which it is based have not been made available to the members of the Riigikogu in time. Is this remark to be interpreted as meaning that the Bureau has come to the conclusion that, once the documents have been put on the bill by the Commission, they have been announced through it, and that the documents must be available to the members of the Riigikogu at the back of this hall, is no longer an obligation arising from the law, but simply a fine addition? To know.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U410	Thank you. These documents have been available to the members of the Riigikogu by electronic means since the 10th date, so there has been no obstacle for the members of the Riigikogu to familiarise themselves with them and to do their work. Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U411	On the basis of my colleague's question, I will ask the question to be specified. Let me get this straight. It's more of a coincidence if it hasn't been brought to this hall on paper. Or does it become a rule? What I am interested in is that, if not today, in future, will it still be the main objective to bring the whole document here? That's one solution. The second is that we are gradually moving away from it because they are available electronically.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U412	No, we're not moving away. It really was a mistake today to put these documents together. Of course, we will also put all these documents in printed form and in full. Yeah. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U413	Thank you! I do, however, want a specific answer. Paragraph 73 (1) states that the item cannot be discussed if the documents have not been made available. Does putting up documents for the purposes of this law on a draft card mean complying with this section, which has led the Bureau to take the view, according to the law, that the documents that are behind it may and may not be there, but that they have no legal meaning? It's kind of like the water bottle in the remote control, it might be, maybe not, but it doesn't make it impossible to discuss the bill. This is actually a relatively important issue. I've never been through this debate before, maybe it's been somewhere. As you mentioned, the Bureau has reached a new position on how to reflect this. I have also been in Parliament when the debate is interrupted because documents are not back there and are expected until they are there. If there's a new interpretation, I'm not saying it's wrong, it could just be equally understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U414	Yes, when documents have been made available electronically to members of the Riigikogu, they are available to the members of the Riigikogu according to the idea of this act, but as a tool for members of the Riigikogu, we will of course print them out. Indeed, I apologise for the little mistake that has arisen in the reproduction today, so one extra was left out. We will try to be more attentive in the future. I see that the political groups have no wish to negotiate. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 202 be completed. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 1 July at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U415	The next item is the inquiry into the labour market situation submitted on 12 May 2020 by the members of the Riigikogu, Helmen Küti, Indrek Saare, Ivari Padari, Jaak Juske, Riina Sikkut, Katri Raigi, Heljo Pikhof and Raimond Kaljulaid (No 34). Ms. Katri Raigi, the representative of the heirs, please. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U416	Good President! Good Prime Minister! An inquiry into the situation on the labour market was submitted on 12 May, so it has been a month, and some questions have perhaps lost topicality today, but of course the subject itself has not. I will bring just two facts to prove it. Registered unemployment has increased by 4% in one month, which is a very large increase, and by the end of the year Eesti Pank will predict or think or see that the percentage of unemployment in Estonia may rise from almost 8% today. There is currently 13.3% unemployment in Ida-Viru County, and we all say uhh and uhh. So it's still serious. We had three questions for our Prime Minister back then. The first concerned an extension of the payment of remuneration compensation, which has been resolved. The second question concerned the government's draft on changes to unemployment benefits, where we discussed, among other things, the expansion of the circle of insured persons and the dependence of the duration of unemployment benefits on the economic cycle. These are the questions to which it is interesting to hear an answer today. The third question we asked was what the government is doing with the groups that are most at risk, young people and older middle-aged people. We are grateful to the Prime Minister for his answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U417	Thank you. I would like you to respond to the questioners here, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U418	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs, thank you very much for this serious and interesting questioning! The labour market situation has been put behind us due to the specific situation declared to prevent the spread of the corona virus causing COVID-19 disease, which is known to be difficult. The daily economic activity of many employers continues to be disrupted, turnover and revenue plummeting, workers' employment and pay have been made difficult. In this context, unemployment is rising. There are currently more than 51000 unemployed in Estonia and, unfortunately, this number continues to grow. For its part, the government has tried to help companies and their employees most affected or delayed by the crisis through wage compensation. It is the fastest and most effective, but it must be frankly said that it is also the most expensive labour market measure. More than 130000 people have received support from the salary benefit launched by the Unemployment Insurance Fund and this has helped companies to prevent redundancies and job losses for several months. More prudent reforms of the unemployment benefit system are also needed in order to make the system more flexible and to provide greater social protection for unemployed people. The longer-term objective of the unemployment benefit system must be that the unemployed person has sufficient income to avoid falling into poverty when seeking active employment. However, the system must also motivate the person who has lost his or her job to start working as soon as possible. I now answer the questions asked in my inquiry, and in my reply I also mark the most important principles and changes in remuneration and unemployment benefits. The first question: "Does the government consider extending the payment of remuneration and under what conditions? Are there plans to extend the range of beneficiaries to persons working under debt-law contracts, to self-employed persons and to board members? At its meeting on 28 May 2020, the Government of the Republic approved the amendments to the employment programme 2017 The draft provides for the payment of a continuation benefit for the month of June. The employer was able to use the remuneration allowance for two months during the period 1 March to 31 May 2020. Given the current state of the labour market, the Government of the Republic decided to support the social partners for another month. To this end, the draft provides for an extension of remuneration as a new employment service, which can be applied for by the employer for a month in June until 31 July. An employer whose turnover has fallen by at least 50% since June of the previous year can apply for a continuation benefit and is paid to workers whose capacity or remuneration has been reduced by that employer in one month up to a maximum of 800 euros on a gross basis. Continuation allowance is usually paid at 50% of the employee's gross salary plus a gross remuneration of at least EUR 150 paid by the employer to the employee. In the future, only those employed under an employment contract whose contract of employment has been concluded before 1 March 2020 can be eligible for support. The number of beneficiaries has not been extended to self-employed persons and board members or persons working under debt-law contracts. On the other hand, many self-employed persons, board members and people working under debt-law contracts can apply for subsidies from other state support measures. Companies which did not have a tax debt on 12 March, who have paid their tax debts at the time of application or whose tax debts have been deferred may apply for compensation for remuneration. You can apply for a continuation benefit from the unemployment fund and the cost of this measure is planned to be up to EUR 69 million, financed from unemployment insurance funds and up to EUR 36 million from the resources allocated from the Government reserve, if necessary. The second question: 'When does the government intend to submit a draft to the Riigikogu regarding changes in unemployment benefits? The Minister of Social Affairs announced last week that the major changes to the reform of unemployment benefits (Sulus will start. J.R.) (such as allowing temporary employment during the period of unemployment, extending the number of insured persons, raising unemployment benefits and unemployment benefits, the duration of unemployment benefits depending on the economic cycle) (Sulud ends. J.R.) may enter into force as early as the summer of this year. 'The Government of the Republic discussed proposals for changes to the unemployment insurance system and further financing of labour market measures at the meeting of the Cabinet of 21 May and decided to initiate a draft law in the Riigikogu at the meeting of the Government of 28 May. The draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 1 June and has now passed the first reading in this honourable Riigikogu. If the draft law is approved by the Riigikogu, the Act will enter into force on 1 September 2020, when the provisions on temporary employment will enter into force. The increase in the replacement rate of unemployment benefit shall take effect on 1 August 2020 and the increase in the daily unemployment benefit rate shall take effect on the first day of 2021, on 1 January. The third question: 'What labour market measures does the government intend to develop for the most vulnerable groups in the labour market, young people and older middle-aged people? ' In view of the significant increase in the target group for labour market services, the Ministry of Social Affairs has prepared, in addition to complementing labour market measures financed by the ad-capital of labour market services and grants, for the re-emphasis of the European Social Fund and for the early deployment of planned funds for the years 2020 to 2023. In 2019, the European Social Fund financed 24.5 million labour market services through the unemployment fund. This includes services to support labour market participation of people with reduced working capacity, young people and retirement age, to provide career services, to support labour market participation of beneficiaries of international protection, and to create jobs and increase employment in areas with higher unemployment. In addition, the ESF funds also finance labour market services through open calls for proposals, which provides an opportunity for a wide range of beneficiaries to receive support. The government has decided to channel additional resources from the Structural Funds' performance reserve to help and activate young people not in employment and education, including through open application rounds, the provision of case management and supporting activities to help young people to work or to integrate the education system into the youth guarantee support system for young people aged 16 to 26 years, through local authorities. This action is planned at EUR 2.35 million, the ESF contribution plus co-financing. It will also be possible to apply for ESF support through an open call for proposals from June to provide labour market services to older middle-aged people in an innovative, performance-based way in order to contribute even more to the skills, activity and labour market survival of people over the age of 55 due to the effects of the crisis on the labour market. The corresponding activities are planned at EUR 1.17 million, the ESF contribution plus co-financing. Measures to support the labour transition of workers in the oil shale sector in Ida-Viru County are under preparation in view of the decline in labour needs. Services will also continue to be provided and developed to support employment and work for people with reduced working capacity and to support the employer of people with reduced working capacity. In addition, the Government has approved that the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, is preparing to apply for the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) to support workers in sectors most affected by the COVID-19 crisis. This fund can apply for funds for redundant workers and workers who have lost their jobs, including their own employers, to provide employment services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U419	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The members of the Riigikogu also have questions for you. First Jevgeni Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U420	Thank you! My question concerns Ida-Viru County and two drafts that have just passed the second reading here, and measures to support the oil shale sector: the temporary reduction of the tax on specially labelled diesel and oil shale ash waste in order to support companies. In the parliamentary debate, I and several other colleagues raised the question that, in fact, in order to prevent mass redundancies, the government could directly support employment in the oil shale sector in East Viru and not support environmental pollution. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission said that he did not have any good ideas about how people could still be supported; he would only discuss the ideas that the government has put on the table. I ask you, as Head of Government, why the government did not put on the table measures that would directly support the employment of the oil shale sector rather than promote pollution and pollution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U421	Thank you. I think that this principle, too, to protect the environment in the light of the principle of sustainable development, must be viewed in a complex way. On the one hand, we must, of course, look, as you say, at environmental requirements, on the other, at economic prospects and, of course, at social challenges. As far as Ida-Virumaa is concerned, under the direction of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Public Administration, a roadmap will be drawn up with proposals on how to carry out a fair transition in Ida-Virumaa. This depends on what this fair transfer fund will be like. As a result of this political statement at three o'clock today, we know that if this relaunch plan should go through as proposed, it will greatly increase the fair transition fund, if not, then we know that MFF, too, already now, has very important funding actually been put in place for a fair transition fund, which I think should also go very strongly to Ida-Viru County. Further, one of the government's priorities is to support job creation and boost the development of the local living environment in Ida-Virumaa. Since 2014, more than €50 million in regional grants have been earmarked for the construction and development of industrial areas and tourist sites in Ida-Virumaa, as well as for the launch and development of oil shale competence centre and regional initiatives to develop entrepreneurship. This is what you know, Mr Ossinovski, the country launched in 2018 a very important programme, the Ida-Virumaa programme, which aims to support the region and to create new, more diverse jobs. One of the reasons for the start of the programme was the concern that some people will be unemployed in today's oil shale sector when they switch to more environmentally friendly energy sources. The total volume of the Ida-Virumaa programme is 24 million euros between 2018 and 2023 and the main focus of the programme is to strengthen the industrial sector offering well-paid jobs and to diversify small businesses. It is certainly important to address the problem of empty apartment buildings in cooperation with businesses in order to improve the region's competitiveness. These are perhaps some concrete steps. I also know that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is proposing a lot of ideas on what green investments could be like in Ida-Viru County. There are many of them in this table and, in the near future, we need to find out which of them are the most priority ideas in terms of green investment. They must also, of course, be covered in future by state budget opportunities. This will be discussed when the summer forecast is known, at the end of August, at the beginning of September. In any case, the issue of the employment of people in Ida-Viru County is, in this sense, you are right, not only with a view to today, but also with a view to tomorrow and the future, but also with a view to today's government is very important and a priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U422	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U423	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! When you answered the first question, you were quite inconclusive. You said that persons working under debt-law contracts, self-employed persons and board members would receive wage support from other measures. Can you elaborate on these measures? The even more important question for me is that we have heard in this Riigikogu, both in the Committee on Social Affairs and in the large hall, an introduction to possible changes in unemployment insurance and to making the economic cycle dependent on the Ministry of Social Affairs. However, the draft which is being dealt with by the Riigikogu today does not reflect this. Could you explain why such a choice was made, as the next point relates specifically to the sustainable management of the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U424	Thank you. First of all, the other measures you asked about. Indeed, the Riigikogu also has various measures in this additional budget. Thank you very much for thinking about the self-employed or members of the board. We are taking the same EAS: a tourism measure from which you can apply for money, for example, for self-employed persons, for micro and small enterprises. A lot of money. The tourism measure amounts to EUR 25 million, and to EUR 10 million for micro and small enterprises. These are some examples. I understand you're asking about major changes to the Unemployment Insurance Act. You're asking why one is or why the other isn't in. This has been an opportunity that has been agreed at a government level, which we believe can also be covered in budgetary terms. Firstly, point one, provision is made for temporary employment at the time of registered unemployment, which is a so-called job bite. According to the draft, temporary employment is permitted during the period of unemployment, either under a contract of employment, a contract of employment, a contract of command or any other service, or under a public service contract of up to five calendar days, for a maximum period of 12 calendar months, during a period of 24 months and the total remuneration for the work per calendar month shall not exceed 40% of the minimum wage for the previous calendar year. There is currently revenue for the state budget. Secondly, the amount of unemployment benefit is changed. The replacement rate of unemployment benefit is increased from 50% to 60% on the first hundred days and the replacement rate of unemployment benefit from 35% to 50%. These are some proposals or amendments related to the amendment of the Unemployment Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U425	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U426	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In fact, the Committee on Social Affairs has made this draft that you have tabled even better. There are quite a number of changes, starting from the length of the workshops and [taking into account] not the salary of the previous year, but the minimum wage of that year. So he's better than what came to us on the Commission. But you didn't exactly answer the previous question. Signe Riisalo specifically asked about the economic cycles and that unemployment benefit should be paid longer than the worst times. But my question concerns the extension of the range of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits. You brought this quote, the parentheses begin, and there was a list of what Tanel Kiik reported by the ministry, and the parentheses end. There [list] was also an extension of the range of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit. Who's it meant to be? In the Committee on Social Affairs, we have not noticed that it would have been extended, for example, leaving on their own initiative, leaving with the agreement of the parties. Could you be more specific?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U427	Thank you. First of all, thank you. Of course, it's good to be specific. I think that if the draft has improved in the Commission, there can be nothing against it. If I may ask for a moment, I do not know if the President will allow the other half of this question to be clarified, which question you meant, the first, the second or the third?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U428	Here you go! Clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U429	Is there a microphone now? Thank you. My question concerns your answer to our questions. You said there was the Ministry of Social Affairs... There was a list of parentheses starting, there was a list, and one of these [themes] lists was the extension of the unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U430	Thank you. I am very sorry to the President and to the Riigikogu! Yeah, I got confused about this, but this'shacks start and end', including what you just said, has been the content of the second question of the question by the questioners. So I quoted the question of where parentheses begin and parentheses end. You have asked me this question: Indrek Saar, Ivari Padar, Jaak Juske, Riina Sikkut, Katri Raik and Heljo Pikhof, in addition to Raimond Kaljulaid. So, yes, it was a quote from your question to be correct in what you have asked for. And these parentheses are as follows: parentheses start with "'-"-"-like allowing temporary work during the period of unemployment, extending the number of insured persons, raising unemployment benefits and unemployment benefits, the duration of unemployment benefits depending on the business cycle) '- and here the parentheses really ended. But, yes, in that sense, you are right that if you go in front of the parentheses, into this subject in depth, you really claim here that the Minister of Social Affairs announced last week that the most important changes to the unemployment benefit reform came from those parentheses, which have been discussed here a lot, may enter into force already this summer. Well, that's it. I wasn't here when the Minister of Social Affairs answered that question. And then my answer. I will stick to the answer I gave you in the context of the introduction of this inquiry. So, yeah, it had to do with the question of the questioners, it got me a little out of line. But thank you for helping me back!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U431	Katri Raik, please! Sorry, you missed Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U432	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! A law was passed in 2008 which unfortunately did not apply. It provided for an increase in the number of insured persons, as well as an increase in the rate of unemployment insurance. Extending the circle of insured persons means that unemployment benefit would also have started to be paid by agreement between the parties and on their own initiative, and the unemployment insurance rate would have risen to 70% for the first 100 days and then to 50% for the previous salary. Unfortunately, it didn't work. This has been recognised later by both experts and economists that this was a mistake. Why do we make the same mistake and not apply the whole package that has been under discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U433	Thank you. Speaking of this rate first, I think you said 70%, as far as I know, in the first 100 days, it will rise from 50% to 60%, and after 100 days, on 101 days, to 40% of the person's income. Speaking of this extension or the whole view, you said that you had left at your own request or with the agreement of the parties. Yes, this debate has been held, this debate was also in the cabinet, but, as I answered either the previous or the previous question, the government came up with what was currently possible at government level to agree on in substance, politically and budgetaryly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U434	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U435	Prime Minister! When you read the analyses and recommendations you make with our labour market, innovation and digitalisation, digitalisation and innovation still remain the keywords. It requires money in science, it requires the development of cooperation between universities and entrepreneurship. I'll ask you as Chairman of the Scientific and Development Council. In any case, the time was cold and I have the feeling that the snow was on the ground when you gave an annual review of the progress of Estonian science. Then you spoke about the same topic of how to promote cooperation between science and entrepreneurship. In the meantime, in times of crisis, has the Scientific and Development Council been together, or what directions are there, or how quickly are we moving towards increasing research funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U436	Thank you. We've really met in a video bridge, just like we used to in times of crisis. There was also, I think, a few weeks ago, also talk about how to intensify and strengthen cooperation between entrepreneurship, innovation and science, how to make this possibility more attractive so that we can move from ideas to prototypes and from there to production. In my opinion, this requires bilateral movement. One is what has always been in this Chamber when there is an overview of R &amp; D that the emphasis has been on how much the public sector contributes to this. On the other hand, we know that there is a huge potential for the private sector, there could also be a greater contribution and a greater incentive to contribute to R &amp; D and innovation. I hope that, alongside certain implementing measures or fundamental measures that we can essentially change in order to bring entrepreneurship and R &amp; D and innovation closer to each other, there will always be real action in the spring period when a national budget strategy is made, or in the end of the summer and in the autumn when public funding for R &amp; D is involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U437	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U438	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Government labour market measures are largely linked to the fact that we support these measures with financial resources, but unfortunately it is not a sucker for all sectors. One sector that does not need money but needs labour is agriculture. Seasonal workers are particularly needed there, for example in strawberry farming. The last suggestion that came from the government was that we were going to pay the wage subsidy. This is a good example of how you are not really listening to what the sector is telling you. I'll get my reasons right away. Ukrainian workers have been treated by the government as unskilled workers, in fact they are skilled workers. Their skill is that they collect on average twice as many berries per hour as other comparable workers. This means that Estonians need at least twice as much from the local market. On what date will you open the opportunity for Ukrainian seasonal workers to come to Estonia? Today, the Schengen area is already basically open; health indicators are not an obstacle. Will it be at the discretion of the government by 31 June that this workforce is still needed in order for the sector to emerge from the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U439	Thank you for this question. Point one, I continue to think that the subject is topical, especially if you mean skilled workers or skilled workers. First of all, I want to get a few things straightened out. You are probably based on facts, but this statement that an Estonian person is not as hardworking in a strawberry field as a citizen of another country, I cannot say whether it is arbitrary or really based on some kind of research. I generally say that the Estonian person is hard-working, is doing his job properly and with a great sense of duty, certainly also diligently. I am especially grateful to the Social Democrats. If you look at the statistics that are currently taking place on the labour market, we see that unemployment is continuing to rise, that 51027 people were unemployed on 7 June and that the registered unemployment rate was 7.9%. This means that our own people will also be very much unemployed, and I very much hope that they can also find these seasonal, right, challenges in different sectors, including agriculture, in the field of gardening. Your question is, when do we open the borders? I think you mean third countries, Ukraine, for example. I don't think we can open anything on June 31st, because that's not even possible. But really, at the moment, the position of the European Commission has been that it has been said that third countries will not be opened up to borders before the end of June, which means that it could take place at the beginning of July. You say Schengen is basically open. That is what I said here today when I made a political presentation, but Schengen is not Ukraine. If we look at the spread of the virus or the epidemiological situation, the data we have to use about Ukraine, we will, above all, assess the number of infected people per 100000 inhabitants in the last 14 days. It can be said that Ukraine is below this so-called 15 level. I certainly believe that all countries are making an effort to improve the epidemiological situation, to continue the downward trend over the next few days and weeks. If Europe's overall direction is to open up the Schengen space to third countries, then I think that Estonia must do the same. So the answer to you is, as soon as possible. I think that, let us say, coordination in opening borders within the European Union is certainly more necessary than was necessary when closing borders. I cannot say a hundred percent today before you that no Member State of the European Union has made certain openings to third countries, but, as far as I am concerned, these are very few examples. So yes, answer: as soon as possible. At the moment, we know that we want the borders on Schengen to be closed until the end of June, but from there, if this principle remains, so that it can be opened, certainly as soon as possible, it will be the beginning of July. Thank you. But yes, from the aid you specifically asked about, to the strawberry growers sector. Here we really have come up with a new measure. A very interesting measure, this is a wage subsidy measure for agricultural holdings. The principle here is that the aid is paid to an employer whose business is to grow eggs, nuts or other fruit. The employer must employ a registered unemployed person who has been unemployed for the last three months or who has worked temporarily for less than 30 days during this period. The amount of the allowance per month shall be 50% of the gross remuneration paid to the staff member and the maximum amount of remuneration shall be EUR 584. Important for this measure is that a salary allowance is paid to the company for the employment of one unemployed person for up to three months, for those months where unemployment insurance has been withheld from the salary. Further, the allowance is paid when the employer enters into an employment contract or a debt service contract with the unemployed, regardless of duration. This support will be paid until the end of 2020. Certainly, I think it is important that it lasts longer than it is just a summer period. Its cost is estimated at slightly more than half a million euros, i.e. EUR 600000. The new measure is expected to provide up to 750 unemployed people. Support can be expected to be applied for as from 1 July, once the conditions of the measure have been formally approved, for unemployed persons recruited on or after 1 June. I have spoken to the Minister for Social Affairs and asked for this process to be speeded up, because, as you well know as your well-known lover of the rural and agricultural sectors, it is absolutely necessary to implement this measure more quickly. The Minister of Social Affairs has told me that this kind of ex ante verification of the worker is being carried out in his field, that this can be done by jobseekers, and that will certainly give them confidence and speed up the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U440	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U441	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! For the sake of the stenogram, maybe before you answer my question, you would clarify what you meant when you first said, in answer to the previous question, that you were grateful to the Socialists, and then you spoke about rising unemployment. Perhaps, however, for the sake of the verbatim report, you could specify what the point was. We had a little misunderstanding on this side of the hall, exactly what the idea was. But my question relates to unemployment benefit, which you have not been able to raise until next year. When you answered earlier questions, you said that there were different social measures to do so. But let's think this way: people who work for the unemployment fund when they pay the tax expect that if they are in trouble, they will receive help from the unemployment fund, but unemployment benefit will be one third below the minimum subsistence rate today. Why did you not agree that unemployment benefit would rise at least to a minimum of living or to some extent to ensure that people could do their lives with dignity for the means they thought they would collect and what the country could supplement in this time of crisis so that they would not have to go asking for social assistance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U442	Thank you, Mr. Island. Yes, my gratitude for the party you led was precisely because, when you look at the situation on the labour market, I think it is extremely important to focus this topic here in the Riigikogu plenary and find the best solutions to reduce unemployment and give people the opportunity to come back to work and get their income again. So it was sincere thanks, in my opinion, for the very topical raise, which is, let us say, in Estonian society either from 12 March, but I think it has been quietly felt since the beginning of March, and of course it has deepened. Now, I think the situation has improved a little. The number of registered unemployed is no longer growing so quickly, but it continues to grow. So it was thanks to you and to your group for raising this important issue. Now I will answer your second question. The increase in the replacement rate of unemployment benefit to 50% of the minimum wage really takes effect on 1 January 2021. The reason is that, since unemployment benefits are state budget support and are also provided for in the state budget, this would have led to the need to adjust the budget this year if it had been done in the past. As you know, this is the task and competence of the Riigikogu. From 1 January 2021 there should be an estimated increase from EUR 189 to EUR 292 compared to this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U443	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U444	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! Your answers have sounded through the measures and assessments that you have now planned and carried out to alleviate the crisis. Before the start of the corona crisis, in the middle of March there were also unemployed people in Estonia, about 36000 people, today the number has increased to 51000. I would have expected you to respond to what you plan to do with learning, retraining, further training, also with leadership quality, just like in the longer term. Open these solids, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U445	Thank you. As far as statistics are concerned, 27678 new unemployed people have been registered since the state of emergency, while the unemployment rate has ended at the same time in 13362 cases. So, overall, the number of registered unemployed has increased by 14316 people since the start of the emergency situation, i.e. by around 39%. The number of registered unemployed increased from 36711 to 51027. It's statistics. Now the [theme] you brought in. Yes, I answered those questions, but I think the subject you are talking about is extremely important, it is re-training. I actually answered the first question, which Mr Ossinovski asked, that it is actually in Ida-Viru County that we are making a very strong contribution to retraining. I specifically mentioned the same programme in Ida-Virumaa, where we want to support the creation of new, more diverse jobs. One of the reasons for starting this programme was the concern that many people in today's oil shale sector will be unemployed if we switch to more environmentally friendly energy sources. After all, the unemployment fund deals with this re-training and this whole issue every day. I think he's doing his best to do what he does, and he's doing it seriously. But, of course, this focus: retraining, further training, as you said, raising management competence, improving competence, I think these are everyday activities that are offered in different fields in Estonia, not only in the field of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but also in the field of Education and Research. So this certainly has to be done and this is an important issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U446	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U447	Thank you, President of the sitting. Prime Minister! Your answers gave the impression that we could not accept seasonal workers from third countries in Estonia because the borders with third countries are closed. In the media, I have read that Finland, for example, has invited and accepted 9,000 Ukrainians for seasonal work in the country. You have always stressed that you have a very good relationship with Finland and that you are also in contact with the Finnish Prime Minister. Perhaps you can tell us how Finns can invite 9,000 Ukrainians to the seasonal work, but Estonians can't?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U448	Thank you. I answered Mr. Kruus' question when I said that. Mr Kruuse asked when the borders would be opened outside Schengen. It is no secret that there are other countries than Finland that have made bilateral agreements with Ukraine. They can really be made. I can't tell you whether 8,000 or 9,000, but yes, I'm familiar with the information about this magnitude. Estonia has chosen the path that we have extended the possibility of working in the agricultural sector until 31 July. We have also said quite sincerely that what is very important is given that unemployment is rising every week in Estonia, so that our own people, too, have a job and just the opportunity to choose these jobs. But yes, Mr Kruuse I replied on a general principle that, of course, it is my personal wish in any case that if coordinated action by the European Union on opening up borders with third countries comes, I see no reason why Estonia should not do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U449	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U450	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will still come back to the question of my colleague, Liina Kersna. You did not answer why at the moment the Estonian state has not made a separate agreement with Ukraine, for example, in order to bring more workers. You referred to the fact that work permits have been extended until 31 July, but the entrepreneurs have clearly said that there are too few people here today, they need working hands, they need people from outside who have visited them before. Their concern is that the local person has not gone to work with them or does not have these skills. Why don't we listen to target groups, why don't we make separate deals? Please answer this!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U451	Thank you. Ideally, I understand you're on the same side as Mr. Kruus. As you say, you don't have those skills. I'm sorry, but I don't think so of the people of Estonia. Really, really, really, really, really, really, really, If anyone says, I do not know that the people of Estonia collect two strawberries from one strawberry and Ukrainians, and the people of Estonia do not have the skills, I certainly do not agree with that, in no way do I agree with you. What Mr Kruuse asked about skilled workers, I think, is a topical question. Take, for example, long-distance drivers, where this is also very topical. This requires a comprehensive solution and a comprehensive solution is to open borders with third countries so that there is coordination within the European Union. I answered Liina Kersna's question very specifically that Estonia has chosen the path that we have extended the possibility of working until 31 July, we have chosen this path to do everything in order for our people to have work and bread. This is very specific and very clear. But, yes, the attitude that Estonian people do not have the skills to do agricultural work definitely requires skills, I don't know, in Estonia the field has been cultivated throughout history, the land work has been done. How come you don't have the skills? No, I don't agree with you on that one. Here I am of entirely different opinion, Mr. Networkship, than you are.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U452	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U453	Thank you. In the interest of the Steinogram, of course, we would like to note that we have not humiliated the people of Estonia in any way and intend not to do so. And we ask you not to put those words in our mouths. But our question is rather why you do not listen to entrepreneurs, why you do not listen to interest groups. They'll tell you about the situation. The situation is that if the country becomes wealthier, as we have seen, Estonians go to Finland to collect strawberries, Finns go to Sweden, Swedes go to Norway. This is real life. What entrepreneurs are saying is that there are no these people. If we are teasing entrepreneurs, it may happen that more people will actually be unemployed because the company will be forced to close the doors completely because it will no longer be able to provide the service at this price. So my question as a follow-up is why you are not listening to these entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U454	Thank you. On the contrary, I have even met companies in this sector. Here I want to rely on the facts told me by the strawberry growers I've met. I've been asking what the average income of this seasonal worker is per month. They have said that it is EUR 800.1000 net. It is safe to say that this is the average wage in Estonia, even perhaps a gram. If a person loses his or her job, he or she will have the opportunity to go to work seasonally, it will be two or three months. I am not saying that it is suitable for everyone, but these are not small wages under the conditions of Estonia. This strawberry grower is very active (I have also looked at the media and I trust his information), he said that EUR 800.1000 is a net salary. I also asked you how many hours a week that means, he said 40 hours a week and net salary. I wouldn't say it's such a small salary now that all Estonians are running away from this salary. The problem is in the sector, of course, there is no way to minimize it. But there are the same measures that I told you today. It is a wage subsidy measure. I mean, I think Mr. Kruuse did an important job. I believe, good Urmas, you remember that you weren't on the table before July 31st, at the beginning there was no extension. In fact, as a result of the discussions, we extended this period. So we've certainly taken these steps, and I think they've all been some kind of relief. But, Mr Kallas, in that sense, I agree with you that, in the end, the solution is still to be able to open the borders. In my opinion, for this we must all work as actively and as committedly as possible. In my opinion, we are seeing that we are rather moving towards opening up these borders, not the other way round.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U455	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U456	Thank you. Prime Minister! I would like to begin by marking in exactly the same way that neither Mart Võrguship nor anyone from the Reform Party has in any way denigrated Estonian workers in the sense of seasonal work, that either they cannot, do not want, do not know or are somehow incompetent. It was unfair to attribute it to us. However, the reality is that, despite all these measures, we are now talking about raising strawberries, we are also talking about other seasonal jobs, we are actually short of seasonal workers or workers. Therefore, I think that direct agreements and agreements with third countries would be very much in place. Explain why you don't want to sign these contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U457	Thank you. Yeah, on the one hand, you're right, you need a job. It is clear that businesses offering seasonal work need people, that they need the work they do, but on the other hand, we need to rely on the statistics we have. As I said to Mr Sut, if I am not mistaken, the statistics show that the number of registered unemployed increased from 36000 to 51000. These are our own people. They are the ones who worked every day before the crisis and now do not work. These people also want a job, want bread on the table. So if you're asking me what I'm gonna say, I'm gonna say that we still have to stand up for our people in this crisis. This, in my opinion, is not of any minor importance at all. Next, the second fundamental question, of course, is that I agree with you that, in any case, if the virus is retreating and the economy is happening again, say, improving, economic indicators are rising, then it is clear that we also need people from outside Estonia. It's no secret. Everything must be done to really open the borders as soon as possible. As I have said several times here in the Riigikogu Chair: this, I very much hope, can be done from the beginning of July, but this must be done in a coordinated manner with the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U458	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U459	Thank you, President of the sitting. Prime Minister! I have understood that this is not about skills and it is not about money. The most important thing is, in fact, who is the Prime Minister and whether he wants to take decisions. Do you want to succeed, and have you also asked the Estonian people what they want? We can't force them to work in the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U460	Thank you. I fully agree that no one can be forced to work in a free and democratic society. I certainly never thought of that. As I told you, the strawberry growers I met said it was a decent salary, it was either an average salary or a gram below it or a gram above it, especially given the conditions of the crisis. But I do not want to go aside from the fact that, of course, in the Estonian labour market, there is a lack of working hands in different areas at one point when we are in the normal economic situation, let alone the growth situation. On the basis of what we have said several times, I think that the borders must still be opened as soon as possible. It can be seen in the late hours of 15 June that, at least in my opinion, it is moving in the direction that this opportunity is emerging in the coming weeks. This should definitely be used by Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U461	Thank you. Good Prime Minister, there are no more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. First of all, I'd like to ask Katri Raigi to speak here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U462	Honourable Chairman! Good Prime Minister, thank you for answering your questions. Still, the heart gets a little sore before the summer. Because, even if there were no time of crisis, we are living at a time when the labour market is changing in the sense that eight hours of work are no longer necessarily all to be liked and suitable, there is no more work for one employer, but for several employers. All labour market issues are not just linked to the crisis, but perhaps on our table. I would like to call on all my colleagues during the summer to think about what we can do in every committee and everyone can do to improve the labour market situation, to analyse, to keep it up. It is certainly not only the unemployment fund that is responsible for labour market issues. Let's take the same re-skilling that came up here today. It is not only the responsibility of the unemployment fund where it finds reformers, the best performers, how it guarantees the best quality. It is also a question of our education system, a question of the Ministry of Education, a question of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu. Or another example. We are talking about unemployment, we are talking about labour shortages. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, we know that this is not just a question of strawberry cultivation; it is a general problem in very different sectors, which once again calls for all of us to contribute, whether it is the initiation of legislative acts or the contribution of the opposition, asking, asking and asking. Perhaps this will make things clearer and make our people's future more secure. I believe that very many Estonian homes are concerned about what autumn brings, whether there is a job, whether there is an income. I hope that, with joint efforts and cooperation, we will find solutions here. So let us not forget the issue of the labour market even during summer holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U463	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U464	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Prime Minister! Honourable colleagues at the late hour! After all, the Prime Minister is actually evasive from the fundamental issue. He has tried to injure us [in advance] such a thing as we, as if, disparage the working capacity of an Estonian and if we want to help those unemployed who have become unemployed at this difficult moment to get back to work, one of the possibilities is to direct them to agriculture. No matter how we look at it in Europe, we must admit to ourselves that, even in times of deep crisis, there is a so-called structural shortage of labour in many countries. One part of this is [unemployment] in seasonal work in agriculture. These are not temporary phenomena, but are long-term phenomena, based on living standards, earning opportunities, etc. This means that it exists in Estonia as well. Let me give you an example. When the honourable Prime Minister said that some 31000 unemployed people have become 52000 unemployed, we might as well assume that in the same proportion, additional labour has also come into agriculture. Actually, that's not the case. These answers, as well as the measures that businesses have received, also show that if they want to have 70 to 80 employees, the unemployment fund will, at the very least, allow 10 people to work, five or less of whom will eventually be employed. For nothing, the European Commission has not taken the decision that European agricultural seasonal work will also be dealt with separately at the deepest moment of the crisis. This means that countries can bring in this workforce on the basis of their own decisions. Today, in fact, the Prime Minister himself admitted, and this was acknowledged by the Minister of Social Affairs several weeks ago, that there is no reason for the exclusion of the Ukrainian labour force due to health indicators. This is a very important argument, which means that we could be prepared to be open to countries that have [fulfiled] criteria for certain health requirements. If I am not mistaken, the advice of the experts was that we should also cooperate with those countries where the disease rate is 100,000 per person, not 15, but 25. What the government set as a criterion was, in fact, below what the experts offered. Now for the craftsmanship. The Prime Minister here on the remote didn't really want to admit that the people who have been doing this job for years are skilled workers. I say they are. The same salary you described comes on the basis of piecework. During the day, people have the ability to collect a certain number of kilograms of strawberries, for example, as a cult. If that's the case, that's the pay, otherwise that's not the pay. But what's more important about this than pay is that at the peak, we need to pick up this crop from the field every day. If you skip a day or two or fill 50% of the day's mission, it means you lose your catch on the next few days, due to mold and whatever's going on there. That's what the strawberry growers told you. If I remember correctly, the representatives of the Chamber of Agriculture made an appeal to you a few days ago, they reminded you of the moment they met you. One part of it was that the Prime Minister promised to find solutions. There are no solutions to this day. Otherwise, all our farms would be crowded. Another important thing that needs to be distinguished is that as soon as Estonia opened its borders with Finland, a very clear part of the skilled Estonians found an outlet in the Republic of Finland. For this reason, I do not know whether the Prime Minister is aware of the fact that companies are already offered prisoners to work. I can well imagine how, at the same time, prisoners and Chevrons, who are mostly minors, work in the fields. What did I mean by that performance? The chess groups are... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U465	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U466	Thank you. When I was talking about performance, it's objective, not ridiculous. The performance of young people who go to work through the chess is simply less objective. There is an additional risk: the berries must be harvested in such a way that they remain healthy. This has been an experience in previous years. If you remember, it is as if those entrepreneurs who have created bigger fields, 20, 30 hectares and larger ones have been criticised. Their business strategy was built on the fact that the Republic of Estonia is reasonable and that the workforce and the skills of the workforce are freely available, it is not unreasonably restricted. This has put them in a particularly difficult position. These sleepless nights should not be a gift from today's government to them during the so-called crisis. That's why we're still critical. We should not wait for the whole of Schengen to be opened to third countries, but the government should decide that, for example, 1000 skilled agricultural workers could enter the country for seasonal work, and they could be here for two or three months, and this problem would have been solved. According to today's formula, the people expected in the field have not gone there. This behaviour is not very reasonable. Of course, if we are at a very high level of education, in terms of higher education among the people, in terms of statistical value, then the statements that the members of the government did when they tried to send the [field] army, the mass of students and whatever, are not the output of our country today, which we should exhibit at such a high level and say that it will now be. We remember how our good compatriots started in Finland in the 1990s, how eager they were to work. That is also what has been said about the Ukrainians. But it is embarrassing to hear the members of the Government of the Republic of Estonia insult our cooperation partners in the public media, be they from a third country or elsewhere, with words such as 'therapists and the woods'. This is, in fact, the highest level of discrimination on which the Prime Minister should make a clear point of reference and say that these members of the government do not have a matter for the government. It's very shortsighted. These countries will certainly continue to be very important partners for us, both as potential members of NATO and as members of the European Union. We are supporting them on this path, as we have been supported, and we should not be doing this to their partners. It's extremely unfair. So, Prime Minister, this key is not in the European Commission or in [some] European office, but it is in your office. Instead of meeting the mayor of Tallinn and the party secretary in the dark of the evening, take this key out and make this decision, because that is what the strawberry growers are asking you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U467	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Prime Minister like a final word? No, I don't. Ladies and gentlemen, we have passed the 14th item and answered this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U468	Let's keep going. Today's 15th item is the inquiry to monitor the budget expenditure submitted by Maris Lauri, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Andrus Seed, Jüri Jaanson, Madis Milling, Toomas Kivimägi, Urve Tiidus, Signe Kivi, Liina Kersna, Kaja Kallas, Urmas Kruuse, Valdo Randpere, Mart Võrklaev, Andres Suti, Erkki Keldo, Annely Akkermanni, Taavi Rõivas, Heidy Purga and Kristina Šmigun-Vähi on 14 May 2020 (No 35). I would like to ask Maris Lauri, the representative of the heirs, to serve as a waitress for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U469	Thank you, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Home and Working Procedures Act, today's working day is over and the answer to the question is still ongoing, and its continuation will be postponed to tomorrow. Thank you to all colleagues. That concludes today's trial. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Yes, Mr. Jaanson, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U470	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The question is quite short. He was motivated by an overview by the National Audit Office of the financial forecast, financial monitoring and risks that were visible in fiscal policy. One of the elements of this analysis or overview was that, in the years 2017 to 2019, when economic growth was significantly higher than the underlying and projected growth, it could have been expected that the revenue from the budget would be much higher and that the amount of expenditure would therefore be lower again, i.e. the budget position should have been better than forecast, the reality was that the budget deficit was much higher than forecast. One of the reasons for this is the lack of monitoring of budget expenditure in the National Audit Office's assessment. The same proved to be true of the Board (and has done so repeatedly) that expenditure monitoring is or will not be lost. This is where our three questions came from, and they concern both the current and the previous government, one of which is the prime minister. I would like to know how expenditure monitoring has been done, whether it has been done and when, which decisions have been taken (I am referring specifically to decisions to ensure that these expenditures remain within the limits set, because expenditure went beyond the limits in those years) and what decisions or decisions are being taken or what has been taken to prevent these things from happening again. I would like to point out once again that we do not want to know the reasons why these costs have been incurred, that has been said. We want to know which decisions, what choices the government has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U471	Thank you. I ask for an inquiry to be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U472	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you very much for raising and questioning this important subject. As regards the monitoring of budgetary expenditure and the overview by the National Audit Office of the risks associated with financial forecasting and monitoring in the fiscal policy of the state, this is certainly a very grateful and important issue. The aim of the state budget and economic policy is to create the conditions for lasting economic growth, leading to an increase in people's well-being, an improvement in living standards. In my opinion, economic policy should aim for the well-being of people and not for the collection of reserves through a budget that is constantly planned with surpluses. Yes, reserves can, of course, help to smooth the economic cycle in difficult times; their importance should not be underestimated, but it is an instrument, not an objective. I have followed discussions on Estonia's fiscal policy during the last week. I do not consider the achievement of a good example, for example, of the structural surplus of the general government in 2014, as this was, at a later stage, the result, among other things, of delaying investment. Non-investment cannot be set as an example. I consider it unacceptable that important reforms and investments, be they raising the income base of local governments, the Ida-Virumaa programme, defence investments, as well as investments in education and internal security through the salaries of police, teachers and rescue officers. I have already talked several times about the bigger deficit than we expected in 2018. However, in addition to what was said earlier, I would like to add that on 24 September 2018, the Board of Budgets assessed the forecast of the Ministry of Finance as sufficiently reliable. I quote: 'The Board estimates that the Ministry of Finance's summer forecast for 2018 will describe Estonia's outlook for economic growth and inflation with sufficient credibility. " Six and a half months later, the Board's assessment was already more critical. On 11 April 2019 the Board of Budgets said: "The Ministry of Finance estimates that the structural deficit of the Estonian general government amounted to 1.4% of GDP in 2018. " Later, the size of the structural deficit for 2018 has been further modified, influenced by the specification of the nominal budget deficit, the revision of GDP data and the resulting re-evaluation of the economic cycle, as well as the re-evaluation of the cyclical sensitivity of the Estonian fiscal position. According to the European Commission's estimates this spring, Estonia's general government deficit was even 2.4% of GDP in 2018, but then the Commission's official conclusion was that it is broadly in line with the European Union's budgetary rules. When collecting reserves and/or borrowing, it is important to always take into account the fiscal economy on the world market. At the moment, we can say that, in today's situation, it may have been more right for Estonia, but true, I agree, it is an ex-post financing of the costs of the administration through a loan, not on the account of reserves. We need to be ready and able to discuss it, not to repeat these dogmas all the time. The financial buffer for unexpected situations is good, but it's expensive. The money market interest rate has been negative for the last five years and therefore the interest rates on both deposits and euro area bonds are negative, both in short and longer terms. For example, Estonia's liquidity and stabilisation reserve were negative in 2017 to 2019 (we have discussed it repeatedly with several of you here, Mr Sõerd, you too) and we lost almost 5.2 million euros in holding reserves. 5.2 million euros! But I stress, it's hindsight. The National Audit Office has noted in its overview of the risks associated with financial forecasting and monitoring in the fiscal policy of the state that inaccurate forecasts and poor monitoring of the revenue and expenditure of the state budget are risks which the government must take into account in order to make responsible budgetary choices that have a long-term impact on the welfare of the state, its inhabitants, as well as companies. The truth is that the European Commission, the OECD, the Ministry of Finance, Eesti Pank and the Fiscal Council have repeatedly emphasised in their analyses that forecasting the performance of Estonia as a small and very open economy is difficult and will be difficult, and deviations from the projected figures in public finances are inevitable. It is also stressed that the assessment of the structural position is difficult in a methodological way and that the existence of different assessments is understandable. Past experience shows that ex post estimates of the output gap and structural balance can change significantly. Now I will go to the questions raised in the inquiry. I would point out that I have not taken up any questions, but I will read them out in the same way as I did in my questioning letter, so that there is no episode like the one before. The first question: 'Have your governments regularly discussed the implementation of state budget expenditure? ' The Government of the Republic of Estonia discusses the implementation of the state budget on a regular basis. During the preparation of the state budget strategy in spring and during the preparation of the state budget in autumn, the Ministry of Finance will present an overview of state budget expenditure during the presentation of the economic forecast. This is also the case under § 75 of the State Budget Act. Each year, a state annual report shall be prepared to review public expenditure, including a report on the implementation of the state budget. The report is approved by giving an overview to the government and, among other things, to the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu and the Special Committee on State Budget Control. The Annual Report is audited by the National Audit Office, in addition, the Ministry of Finance regularly provides the Government with reviews of individual items of expenditure, such as real estate investments and labour costs of public authorities. The general government budgetary position is much more than the expenditure of the state budget, which is why the monitoring of state budget expenditure does not give a full picture of the balance of the general government as a whole. The foundations and public institutions, as well as local authorities, the sickness fund and the unemployment fund, must be taken into account. The activities of these bodies are autonomous and the transactions between the state budget and those bodies are ongoing. In conclusion, the monitoring of state budget expenditure is important, but only partially describes the state of the government budget balance. The second question: 'What decisions have governments made to ensure that real expenditure remains within the limits of the state budget? ' The maintenance of actual expenditure within the limits laid down by the state budget is ensured by the State Budget Act, which states in § 32 (4) that expenditure at the limit is not allowed to be exceeded. In order to monitor the budgetary sustainability of expenditure, the SAP limits shall be set in the accounting information system and shall not be exceeded. In order to facilitate the monitoring of expenditure, the National Support Services Centre prepares reports on the implementation of the budget. This was the case in previous governments, and it is now. The annual report of the State confirms that there has been no breach of budgetary discipline. According to subsections 32 (1) and 32 (2) of the State Budget Act, the state budget also includes costs without a limit, but they are limited by reference to other laws or contracts or to the creation of specific income. Costs which depend on the creation of a specific income are, for example, external grants or costs incurred on account of income generated by an economic activity. Expenditure subject to legislation is, for example, pensions and other social benefits, which must be paid out even if they exceed the estimated budget. It is important to note that the budgetary sustainability of these expenditures will be assessed in the preparation of both spring and summer economic forecasts and, if necessary, revised forecasts. In addition, certain costs, such as investments, are allowed to be passed on from one year to another if, for example, procurement is delayed due to disputes. It may also increase the actual expenditure for the current year, but after a longer period fixed in the budget for the same year, these over- or under-expenditures balance each other. The third question: 'What have you done to ensure that real expenditure remains within the limits set by the state budget? " With regard to the previous question, we have already explained how it will be ensured that the budget is kept within the prescribed limits. It can also be added that if, for example, last year's budgetary position was worse than planned, this must be taken into account in planning the budget for the following year and this difference must be compensated. According to the budgetary strategy, there is always a need to move towards a balanced budget, and these rules have also been followed when drawing up budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U473	Thank you. Prime Minister, there are also questions for you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U474	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! In your introductory speech, you couldn't hold back the laughter in some places, probably didn't quite believe what you were saying. One of the concerns that you have taken seriously during your two governments: in the first government, after you came to power, you relaxed the budget rules, but even in a relaxed way, you were unable to abide by them. This actually showed that, although you spent a lot of money on sectors before the elections to perhaps get a better result in the elections, the opposite happened: opposition parties got a very good result, but coalition parties did not get such a good result, or people did not appreciate this activity. You are using measures that I find ineffective in terms of money. Now this question, which arises from the previous one, continues to exist. The salary allowance you have talked about is a cost of 0.6 million and you are hoping to get 600-700 unemployed people to work. Even if it succeeds a hundred percent, it means that half of the harvest will not be harvested, but the income of the strawberry-growing sector will be about 5 million. On what basis of mathematics does your proposal prove effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U475	Thank you. I'm positive by nature. I can't imagine coming here in front of the Riigikogu and starting to cry. That's not a good solution either. I think you too, Mr. Kruuse, often smile. That's how life goes on in my mind. Did I believe those sentences or not, what I said? Of course I did. You're criticizing, aren't you, 2018 and 2019. Wisdom in hindsight is an exact science, as they say. But if you think for a moment (you also have a great experience in local government, you have been a minister and you have been here in the Riigikogu, you are an honorable politician), let us be honest, so many structural reforms were actually not done and investments stood. I have just taken the OECD's assessment, for example, in the preparation of this inquiry. It said that the problem of inequality was huge. Yes, you say how voters valued one step or another, but do you remember how much fire you gave to the previous coalition when we raised the tax-free minimum to EUR 500? It now turns out that the same OECD says that the problem of inequality in Estonia in 2018 improved and says that it was precisely the reform of this income tax-free minimum. This reduced inequality, it was a step in the right direction. So what can I say? I have read to you many important steps that have been taken. Local authorities, structural reforms. We will take the same additional health care funding: the share of health insurance for those who are retired is financed from the state budget. It wasn't a few years ago, now it is. Investments in defence costs, which I pointed out, additional investments. You can see that these have been very powerful steps. We're taking extra funding in the field of education, rising teachers' salaries, rising police pay, rising rescue officers' wages. We have talked so much to you about these same agricultural subsidies, rural payments. You're gonna bring out an indictment of your inquiry to the previous government. I don't know, the previous government came, you see, we made it a priority to increase these direct payments. We are taking today's government: in this extra budget approved by you, the Riigikogu, there are 200 million euros, in addition to by means of rural guarantees, loans. You will return to this [measure]. Yes, according to today's estimates, this measure can really cost up to EUR 600000 and provide work for 700 to 750 people until the end of the year. This is, in our view, an important measure that could alleviate this problem. I'm sure he won't solve it. You're asking about efficiency. I do not know what efficiency coefficient you mean here, but it is still a question of creating additional measures to really help this sector as much as possible with these measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U476	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U477	Thank you. Prime Minister, thank you for reading us these regulations and laws, but most of those in this Chamber are familiar with them. Our concern is the cost side of the budget law that has been put forward. I expect you, as Prime Minister, to agree that the budget law must be observed, like all laws. We would still like to understand what you are really doing, not read about the laws you have to do or how the systems are structured. As a note: the inequality indicators have actually deteriorated. So please answer the question of what you do every month to monitor, or whether you follow the government spending every month from the state budget. The question was very specific, we did not go far. I'm asking for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U478	Thank you. When it comes to your questioning, budget expenditure monitoring, this problem began in April 2019, I remember. That same quote from the Fiscal Council, I read to you that in September they thought that everything was fine. Six and a half months later, we saw that the deficit was much bigger. I have also said, I think, on several occasions here in the Riigikogu, that it is clear that there is a need to improve the monitoring of expenditure, but I say that there is also a need to improve the monitoring of receipts in any case, the cooperation between ministries needs to be improved. It is particularly important to me that even more can be done in terms of cooperation between the Fiscal Council and the Ministry of Finance than has been done, but that cooperation exists. To monitor the running costs I told you several times in your inquiry and say again, we always do so, at least twice a year. We will do this during the drafting of the country's budget strategy in April, and we will also do so at the beginning of the autumn, in September, when we are going to draw up the state budget. In addition, I have pointed out to you in my reply that, in order to monitor the maintenance of the expenditure budget [of the limits], SAP limits are set in the accounting information system, which cannot be exceeded, and I also pointed out in my reply that there are certain costs that must be paid out either way, if there is an excess cost. For example, I remember that 2018 was an overexpenditure for different articles, including parental benefit, pensions. So there are also certainly those costs which, in any case, must be paid out, which cannot be withheld.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U479	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U480	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Reality-based projections and the continuous monitoring of the state budget's revenue-costs play an important role in rational fiscal choices, which have a long-term impact on the welfare of the state, its inhabitants and businesses. I read on the website of the National Audit Office that the National Audit Office has compared the budget forecasts of the Ministry of Finance and the actual revenue-costs of the state and indicates that in 2018 the nominal deficit of the central government was more than 200 million larger than planned. Why haven't you listened to the Board's repeated warnings?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U481	Thank you. As I said, there is cooperation between the Fiscal Council and the Ministry of Finance. After all, the Board always comes to the government to give its prior assessment when we adopt the state budget strategy and also the state budget. You will look at the audit of the National Audit Office, so let me look at it. Here is the report 'The accuracy of the annual accounts of the State for 2018 and the legality of transactions', Table 1 'Authorised fields of activity and assessments of the National Audit Office'. Audited area: collection of revenue, including taxes and social security contributions, sales of goods and services, other revenue. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the answer to the question is whether the transactions are correctly recorded in the accounts: yes. The second question: have the state budget laws been complied with when dealing with transactions? Answer: Yes. Next: receipt of grants, including mediation. Same questions. Are transactions recorded correctly in the accounts? Yeah. Have the state budget laws been observed in the transactions? Yeah. Now I'm not going to read the questions from the top line to you anymore, but I'm going to read the audited areas. For example, granting grants: both questions have been answered by hunting. Operating costs... very important, including taxes passed on, labour and economic costs, other operating costs, financial costs. Both have the answer in the National Audit Office's audit for 2018 yes, yes. Transactions in state assets, including investments: yes, yes. Savings of state money, including interest income on bonds, deposits and loans, other financial revenues: there are also answers yes, yes. The exercise of the right of establishment in foundations, non-profit organisations and profit institutions, participation in legal entities governed by public law: yes again, yes. But that doesn't mean, of course, that we shouldn't have to fix what Maris Lauri asked about. He asked me about spending, and I answered. But in 2018 the main problem was that economic growth was faster than expected and taxes were not received the same, say, with a tendency or the same increase, and certain excise duties were actually less than forecast. So it was a real 2018 state. In addition, as I said, there were certain costs that had to be incurred in any case, but where there was overspending. Pensions have to be paid out, parental benefits are all good things. True, there was an extra cost if my memory didn't fool me, for certain investments. But I remember very well that in autumn 2018, the Ministry of Finance also said, on the basis of the forecast that investments should also be made as much as possible at the end of the year, because the forecast actually shows a good return.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U482	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U483	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Listening to your answers, unfortunately, I only have to know that nothing has changed since the month before when the National Audit Office made its report public. These concerns, which the National Audit Office said, that major errors in the implementation of the budget will only be noticed after the end of the financial year, are exactly what you are talking about. What may be the reason for this is asked by the National Audit Office. And he answers: 'If the officials of the Ministry of Finance draw up monthly information on tax receipts for the management, the State Chancellery and the Prime Minister, then the current expenditure from the state budget will not be affected and will not be discussed. ' But the main problem, good Prime Minister, is why these deficits are both nominal and structural, is that you lack an overview. What are you going to do to have an overview of public finances?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U484	Thank you. As I said, this cost statement (I will repeat myself now, but I understand that you will also repeat these previous questions) has a government. The government receives at least twice a year a very comprehensive overview of the state's financial situation, including budget implementation or expenditure review, in April and September. There are also programmes. But, as I said here too, many times I have used the name of you as the representative of the heirs, Mrs Maris Lauri, that if you tighten it up even more (I pointed out inter-ministerial communication, communication between the Ministry of Finance and the Budget Council) in order to monitor the running costs, I am certainly not against that. Yes, indeed, an overview of labour taxes, the collection of excise duties, we will receive with a delay of a certain number of days for the previous month, so that is how it really comes to us. But you're asking if every cabinet is watching budget implementation. After all, the Republic of Estonia has established and recognized specialists in the Ministry of Finance, who will certainly do their job professionally and also do it independently. You know that very well, you wrote a very nice comment today. I saw that ten years ago you were in the Bank of Estonia and now you are back, though in another capacity. Happy birthday to you! Sorry, eleven years. But what I want to say is that this is basic to making this whole budget forecast, as you know here, politicians are not going to get involved in any way. It's not like we're saying make some prediction better. It's not like that. What comes from the Ministry of Finance, figuratively speaking, cellars or rooms, will remain so. But as if overspending wasn't important on the contrary, I consider it very important, sincerely do. But there are certain expenditures, as I have pointed out to you, which the legislator has said, that in any case, if there are more volumes than the budget provides, they must be paid out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U485	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U486	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You mentioned in your report that non-investment cannot be set as an example, and also that the monitoring of lending needs to be improved. But let's come from history to today. Of course, 3 billion of them who keep this account exactly, how much this loan is being taken, monitoring is incomplete, as the National Audit Office writes, but 3 billion at least have taken out new loan money this year or are still being taken, and it will be needed for something this year. I'm trying to figure out where this loan money is going, and every day I get the conviction that it's just going to cover running costs: daily bills, wages, social benefits. I want to see if anything goes from this 3 billion to investment. You tell me, name three investments at your discretion in the order of priority that this 3 billion will make with this year's loan money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U487	Thank you. You know for yourself that the Riigikogu has given even more volume to actually borrow than there are 3 billion. Point one. Point two is that we must go into these so-called fiscal policy instruments. We're taking long-term bonds for the last ten years. You know, Mr Sõerd, as well as I do that on very good terms Estonia was able to realise these bonds. Even with conditions that were negative. Unbelievable (you're also a finance specialist), but the market today is paying for it. Yes, it shows that Estonia's public finances have been in good hands during different governments, no matter how much you like to criticize, also in today's and previous [government], but also in previous times. I have also said several times in this Chamber's speech in the context of the Corona virus, thanks to the Isamaa Party, which has been in government for a very long time and has been responsible for conservative monetary policy. I have also thanked the Reform Party, including today's coalition parties. There's been a finance minister among the Sots, you remember that time. What do I mean by that? Today, there is a situation on the market where we receive long-term bonds in a very favourable state terms. You say: 3 billion where this money goes or what these investments are, bring it in order of priority. First of all, you know very well, Mr Sõerd, that it is not the case that the long-term realisation of the bond comes into the national purse that it goes right there. There's no such thing. You're just trying to trap me here, but no, I'm not going into a trap. Now, three examples of additional investments, where this money goes. For example, building up a housing fund. Certainly, I think it is important that the roads of local authorities be organised and repeated. Many local governments, I have spoken to all 79 local governments in the last few months, have mentioned positively this support of the Riigikogu through an additional budget. Thank you very much, too. These are some examples where this real extra budget money really has gone, but we cannot say that less important would be, for example, grants from EAS, MES. Of course, large sums of money, right, 35 million from EAS, different measures from the MES in the order of 200 million, not to mention KredEx. So, nevertheless, it has mainly gone to improve our economic situation, to alleviate this crisis and to re-launch [the economy].
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U488	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U489	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! For all the questions that are mentioned in the question, you are rather carefree, and every question gets the answer, that there is no problem and that nothing has been done wrong. At the same time, the National Audit Office has said (it has been quoted here, but I will do it once more) that in 2018 the nominal deficit of the central government was more than 200 million larger than planned in the midst of a stable economic economy. The review also found that the monitoring of expenditure over the course of the financial year was incomplete and that there was a risk that the budget deficit would be noticed only when it was already too large. You're the last couple of minutes since the National Audit Office said, I think, a couple of minutes without worries, that there's no problem. Is the National Audit Office mistaken if he claims that there is a problem? The second question: have you, however, learned anything from this audit of the National Audit Office and these questions and are planning to do something different so that the National Audit Office can say in its follow-up maybe in a few years' time that the government has done a good job and the deficiencies have been corrected?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U490	Thank you. Point one, I have not said that there is no problem, on the contrary, I have said that communication needs to be improved, can be improved and made more operational. Either way, I've said it, I don't know, twice or three times. I don't know if you don't want to listen or if you're dealing with other issues and just not listening. So point one, I certainly have not said that there is no problem. Point two, already basically I respect the National Audit Office, the National Audit Office's audits and auditing, and I think there are a lot of truths in it. I remember that there have also been other opinions in this Chamber by prime ministers towards the National Audit Office and much more critical. Well, there are world-view differences. By the way, these prime ministers have belonged to the Reform Party, which has criticised the National Audit Office before and behind it. What else do I want to say? You say 2018 was a huge expense. I read to you: raising the income base of local governments, investment in defence, investment in education, internal security, whether it be through police, saviors, teachers' salaries, investment in health care, our health insurance fund. Mr. Networker, then what should have been canceled? Structural reforms had not been completed, investments were still in place at the time. I really think it's right that these things were done. As you can see, the OECD has also said that this problem has, in any case, become a better focus. I don't know, you're from a local government background, you know, the state of the municipalities since 2009. Trimmed when there was an economic crisis, if I'm not mistaken, from 11.93%, I don't know, to 11.4%. But they didn't give it back, the economy went on, but the municipalities didn't get a percentage back. Now you know that this thing has been fixed, and I think it's a good way to go. But the fact that there's no problem, no, I'm not saying. I do not know what tone it will be to perform here before the honourable Riigikogu. Mr. Kruus is gone. Really, am I coming here to cry? It's not, it's a great time to have a debate in the Riigikogu. Here's where it goes. I also sense today, in the context of both of these enquiries, that it is actually everyone's sincere desire to reduce the impact of the economic crisis and help the Estonian people and Estonian companies to get out of this crisis more quickly. I really think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U491	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U492	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! It seems to me that no matter how long you're in power or your government is in power, your governments will go down in history as an irresponsible whale. It's my feeling. I have a feeling you're only listening to yourself. You're going to take down all the previous governments that were before you. Thirdly, you focus on borrowing, what is perhaps even called athletic doping. I don't have much time to ask, but I'm just asking. Very many non-governmental institutions have drawn your attention to precisely what I was talking about here. But what's your big plan so that such an opinion doesn't come up with such a nature?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U493	Thank you, Mr. Jaanson. Of course, I will answer all your questions or even your accusations. You said I'd take out all the others. I do not know, on the contrary, that I said several times, in the context of the Coronavirus crisis, thanking both the Fatherland Party and the Reform Party, who have actually been in the government coalition in Estonia for a very long time in this century and have pursued responsible monetary policy. I think that in the case of the Fatherland, one can speak most strongly of this, but certainly also in the case of the Reform Party. So I don't know, I don't see how I'm gonna do it. On the contrary, this is recognition. Go on, you said I was in favour of rhyming. No, that's not true. No, I don't support squabbling. The question is whether the measures I have mentioned today are wrong or correct. I agree that it is right to hold this political debate in any case. But when we look, I don't know, at various social support measures, I dare say that a lot of them have increased over the last three and a half years. I look at Estonia's average salary, Estonian pensions. Of course, the government does not pay average wages to all Estonian people, but the public sector will certainly contribute to this economic process. It's healed, we can't deny it. I have highlighted the major funding decisions that have been made. One was an increase in the tax-free minimum to EUR 500. Its main objective, Mr Jaanson, was to help people with low and medium wages to actually increase their incomes. Yes, I cannot say that it was only a hundred percent victory, some groups were also caught, say, between the gears, but a very large part of the Estonian population, who earned a low or average salary, won it. I remember that these were very difficult decisions to give the sickness fund an amount of EUR 200 million. It was, if I am not mistaken, for one budget strategy, we discussed the issue, I don't know, at two, three, four cabinet meetings, but we found a solution. It was not a one-time solution, it was also a change in the law. Local authorities. I agree that it can be discussed whether or not it's been right, whether or not it's been languishing. I think that local authorities have become stronger, not only because of money, but also because of administrative reform. He's not in this room anymore, now he's working for the Employers' Confederation, Arto Aas, he's the minister who started dragging it. I think he opened up the job the same way and did a part of the job. So we can argue if it's been laurishing or not. We've always talked to you about sports, I mean, in recent years. Of course, it's taxpayers' money. But let's take, I don't know, Team Estonia, a whole different funding than the one that was a few years ago. I remember in this very Chamber when it was said from this chair or it came from there, from the head of government, that the government and politicians, and I don't know, the public sector shouldn't be involved in performance sport at all. I think we're gonna have to deal with it. So you have a lot of arguments that are bad, but I'm trying to reflect what's been done. Whether it's bad or not, it's finally your decision. There's nothing I can do to change you in that sense. Borrowing, you say, is bad and bad. Yes, Estonia has really lived with this ideology so that the debt burden on the state would be as low as possible. We have fulfilled this objective very well, I do not argue with that. This [debt] has been the lowest in Europe. By the end of this year, I think it's still the lowest or, I'll do a little extension, one of the lowest. I don't know if that's the only thing we're saying now that this really is this dogma or the only purpose. For me, that is not the only purpose. In my opinion, in all these economic mechanisms, in all the fiscal mechanisms, which are certainly also the debt burden, we must see the person, the person's livelihood, the progress of Estonia's life, it is a and o. A and o is not whether our debt is 8% or 9% or 15%. But I also do not think that there must be an utopian debt burden that many countries have. I certainly don't support it. There's definitely somewhere like this, I don't know, a cognitive line that I don't think we should ever go over, which is living at the expense of the future. You're asking what the big plan is. I think the chair will intervene if I start talking for the next several hours about what this big plan is. Well, in general, this plan is a one-story plan. This sentence is that Estonia's population would rise and that Estonia would continue as an independent democratic state. I think that the population is a key issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U494	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U495	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Prime Minister! I want to continue with the thought that my colleague Aivar Sõerd started. It also bothers me that, in the case of the country's current large borrowing, you say that we are taking out a loan because we have a low loan burden and the interest is very low, that it is very appropriate to take out a loan. But the loan is still taken for something, it has to create a new value. My question to you is that you told Aivar Sõerd that you want to trap me, you want me to say for every money it goes, that it doesn't have to be. But that's exactly what it's supposed to be. This audit report of the National Audit Office also says that ministries can easily say what they are short of money for, but the ministries do not provide an answer for which they have used the money, how efficient this use of money has been, how purposeful this use of money has been, that these questions often remain unanswered. It is therefore very difficult to appreciate and notice early if we are going in the wrong direction or if we are living beyond our means.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U496	Yes, thank you. I think I can answer that. I really want to see this place in the verbatim, where I've told you today or before that we're borrowing because our loan burden is low. Oh, come on! That, in my opinion, is absolutely irrelevant. This has absolutely nothing to do with this! The question is what approach is chosen to this health crisis, which has moved on to the economy and which has certainly moved on to monetary policy with certain transfers. The question is, which direction do we choose? There are two directions in the big picture. It is understandable that our tax receipts have gone down, that the forecasts are not true. So what can we do? Point one, it's possible to start cutting. This was done in 2008 and 2009. A second approach is possible to try to stimulate and contribute to the public sector, to boost our economic environment by investing. It seems that a very large proportion of the countries of the European Union, our closest allies, the countries of the world have gone this way now. Let us take the example of the European Union. After all, the European fund that we have talked about today is broadly the same ideology that we are helping the public sector today as much as possible to bring the economy back on track. Is this going to work or not? That's the faith, that's the hope that today is the right way. Where's the money going? Of course, it makes sense where the money goes. First of all, Estonia's state budget has a detachment in 2020, which has been predicted by the Ministry of Finance. Labour taxes, different taxes, the gap is. We have expenditure in the state budget; these expenditures must then be met by some kind of activity, whether it is borrowing, whether it is reserves or it is cutting. Yes, we have rather taken this course to try to cover these costs with various financial policy steps and then go to reserves, not the other way around. What the market will be like at the end of the summer, in the autumn, we cannot know in advance. Where's the money going? Of course it's known, they're in the budget, they're in the cost lines. But you're asking me, I don't know if that was the point of your question, I'm sorry if that wasn't the point of your question, whether we should start linking revenue sources to specific spending. We have some examples, don't we? Once, we had a percentage of excise duties on the roads of local governments. Rather, the state of Estonia has chosen a slightly different way of collecting all the money and then distributing it through the state budget by decision of the Riigikogu, so that it would not have so-called "tagged money" so that there would be some flexibility in the state budget. I don't know if you meant it, but if you didn't mean it, then of course it's known where these loans or bonds go. This [money] will cover the budgetary gap, item one, and additional activities, additional economic stimulation. It's as simple as that, there it goes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U497	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U498	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! You have described very vividly here how the Ministry of Finance, in its basements and halls, prepare forecasts for you and you follow them. I am quite convinced that the Ministry of Finance will also prepare a cost report for you every month. Where are the reports, in the halls and in the basements, or on your desk and they stay there and you don't even get to know them, and that's why you don't have a permanent overview of public spending? The second particular question is, was this 200 million overexpenditure your conscious choice, you knew you were spending over? Do you admit that you actually took the view that yes, we will spend, no matter what?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U499	Thank you. I will stick to my reply that state spending is always reviewed by the state in the country's budget strategy and in the next year's budget. You're afraid they're gonna send you some reviews, but they're gonna stay in some drawers. No, that fear is wrong, it certainly isn't. In 2018 the National Audit Office also stated in its comprehensive review that Estonia's public finances are on solid foundations. The budget for 2018 was planned in deficit, but it was in line with the revised budget strategy and aimed at stimulating growth. It was a political choice back then. In 2018, there was no conscious overspending by the government. As I said, in the context of faster-than-expected growth, tax revenues remained modest. I also told you that this was primarily due to excise duties. This also had a negative impact on the structural balance. Both over- and under-estimation has occurred in previous years, i.e. no systemic error has been detected during the control. So these are the reasons that I told you that, on the one hand, there were structural reforms that we wanted to do, investments needed to be made that had not been done, and, on the other hand, yes, it is true that there was faster growth and tax revenues remained modest.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U500	If you don't mind... Yeah, well, it ended early, but I'd like to ask you how the free microphone Statute... Or with this new regulation, how is it supposed to use a free microphone? Is it going to be postponed to tomorrow's trial?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-15_U501	No, the free microphone is canceled this week because the law states that it has to be on Monday. So, according to the Home and Working Procedures Act, if we don't get to the free microphone on Monday, it'll just be off this week. Closure of the sitting at 00.02.
