ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U1	Today is a rebirth day and let me congratulate you all on this important anniversary. But today is also an international day of tolerance announced by UNESCO. Let us, then, in a sense, send one good and beautiful idea to our political opponents and opponents. We are now going to the Monday session of the 8th working week of the 4th plenary session of today's Riigikogu. Does Mr. Lotman have a question? No, it's not. It's just a little finger mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U2	We have an important event today, namely the oath of Environment Minister Rain Epler. President Kersti Kaljulaid, including by decision of 12 November No 644 Rain Epler, has been appointed Minister of the Environment. Next, we will hear his oath. Please, Mr. Epler, the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U4	Thank you. Please sign the oath! [[The Minister will sign. Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U5	Now it's the handing over of drafts and enquiries. I don't think that's what you want today. I have a message for the honourable Riigikogu. Today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up a group of bicycle friends. The caller is Jaak Juske. We're going to the presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U6	84 members of the Riigikogu are present, 17 are missing. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the approval of the 8th working week agenda of the IV session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U7	84 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda and there are no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, There are no points on the agenda of today's sitting. But there's a free microphone. Does Mr. Juske have a question or a desire for a free microphone? The desire for a free microphone. Please! After hitting the hammer, all members of the Riigikogu can register for speech in a free microphone. First thing I'm gonna do is call Jaak Juske. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U9	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, In history, it is most important to understand the relationship between how one event led to another. Although I proposed today to set up a group of bicycle friends, in my speech I would like to talk about the railway and how it changed Estonia's history. Because indeed, on 5 November this year, 150 years passed since the opening of the Baltic Railway, which changed the history of Estonia and paved the way for the birth of the Republic of Estonia in its own way. Connecting Tallinn by railway line with the capital of the Russian Empire in 1870 triggered an industrial revolution in Estonia, leading to rapid urbanisation. The initiative for the construction of the Baltic railway connecting Revalit, the capital of the then Estonian Governorate, to St Petersburg, Russia's capital, came from local Baltic German landlords. The Estonian knighthood and its then head Alexander von der Pahlen applied for the construction of the railway, whose name the Czar government finally approved the concession in 1868. Then a public limited company called the Baltic Railway Society was created, and Pahlen was elected the leader. The Society remained the owner of the railway until its nationalization in 1893. Pahlen was a man beyond his own time. So far, railways were built in the Russian Empire according to the principle that railway connections would be made available to those cities that were already more commercially active. However, Pahlen believed that if Tallinn/Reval, which has a geographically favourable location, had a railway connection with the heart of the empire, trade would also develop and grow the importance of the city, and the empire itself would gain a favourable connection with Western Europe. After Emperor Alexander II had authorized the construction of the railway, construction work with full steam began in the spring of 1869 and could already be opened on 5 November 1870. The main railway station initially had a Baltic station in Tallinn and six years later the iron road reached Livonia in Tartu. Rail connection to Russia launched an industrial revolution in Estonia during the final decades of the Tsar era. Before and after the late turn of the century, large new factories, like mushrooms after rain, emerged in Tallinn and other major cities of ours. However, these industries needed a mass workforce. The result was a rapid urbanization, in which the rural people, Estonians, lighted up into the cities and laid the crown of their wooden slums around the old heart of the city under the control of the Germans. The figures show the most rapid urbanisation at the time. Before the railway opened, Reval had about 30,000 souls, but 44 years later, by the beginning of World War I, they were already 116000. More than three times the number of inhabitants of Tallinn had increased. This is about the same as taking today's population in Tallinn and predicting that in 40 years' time, only one and a half million people will live in this city. At the time, being a houseowner meant the right to participate in local politics. In the 1904 Tallinn City Council elections, the local leaders of the Estonian community Jaan Poska, Voldemar Lender and Konstantin Päts put their backs together with the local Russians and beat the Baltic Germans who ruled Tallinn for centuries. For the first time in the largest Estonian city, the power went to the Estonians. Jaan Poska became the chairman of the city council and civil engineer Voldemar Leder in 1906 the first Estonian mayor of Tallinn. The rural people had become townspeople. We were also ready to become a nation of state when history 14 years after the turn of power in Tallinn played this opportunity in our hands. I've always wondered if the Baltic Germans or the Russian emperor would have given permission to build a railroad if they had known what all this was going to end half a century later. What is important, however, is that the railway's coming role played a key role in economic development, urbanisation and the formation of modern Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U10	Thank you. Next up, call chair Kalle Grünthali!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good people of Estonia! First of all, I would like to remind you that it is in this honorable hall that the Republic of Estonia is born, founded on freedom, justice and justice. On the basis of the above, I am, unfortunately, forced to use this honourable hall to make a political statement in connection with the undemocratic situation prevailing in the administration of Paide. The political statement is addressed to the Paide City Government, represented by Mayor Priit Värk of the Right-wing Fatherland and Siret Pihelgas, Deputy Mayor of Social Democrats. 'Political statement. The Preamble of the Republic of Estonia [Constitution] sets out the principle: Estonia is founded on freedom, justice and the law that protects inner and external peace and is placed on present and future generations in their social success and overall benefit. Unfortunately, these principles have been grossly violated by the Paide City Government, represented by Mayor Priit Värk and Deputy Mayor Siret Pihelgas, and in recent times more and more of a dictatorial leadership style similar to that of President Lukashenko of Belarus has been implemented. Paide City Government ignores the Constitution's norm: private property is sacred and inviolable. Using road roller tactics, citizens' rights are run over and tilted into insignificant transactions. Paide City Council has been transformed into a rubber stamp, where decisions that have long been actually made by the city government are often called for after all. Criticism by the city commissioners about the government is prevented by the switch-off of microphones, i.e. freedom of expression is restricted. In strange circumstances, a criminal case will be brought against the Chairman of the Council, which will soon be terminated, but it will be enough for the Chairman of the Council to lose his office. Constructive criticisms in newspapers are either not answered or produced in a lie about political opponents. Last but not least, the recent case of an inclusive budget in which 220 citymen's votes on the organisation of the Sargvere historic manor park, which proved to be an idea of victory, were unlawfully cancelled by the city government, is sufficient. This is a gross violation of the law, which ran over both the will of the citizens of Paide and the mandate given by the council. A clear message was also given: the highest power is not the people, but Paide City Government. This situation cannot continue and is unacceptable. On the basis of the mandate given to me by the people, I hereby make a request to Mayor Priit Värk and Deputy Mayor Siret Pihelga: you must resign immediately. Member of the Riigikogu Kalle Grünthal, Estonian Conservative People's Party, 16 November 2020. ' Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U12	Thank you. Peter Ernitsa next, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. I am not talking about the start of Estonia's first championship in 1923 in boxing, and not about bicycles. But today, it happens to be November 16th. If anyone else remembers that day, the declaration of sovereignty of the Estonian SSR was accepted in this hall and it was declared that the highest power on the Estonian territory belongs to us. Not only is Estonia's sovereignty complete and indivisible. This was actually the legal start of Estonia's release process. Indeed, ten days later, events in Moscow followed. I'm not going to recount everything here, I'm not a historian. I wasn't supposed to come to this talking board at first, but when historian Jaak Juske was talking about bicycles, I thought as a non-historian I could also talk about what has a much greater meaning for us people in Estonia. And the second question: how sovereign are we, in fact, now in Estonia and how complete and indivisible is our sovereignty? But that's the subject of other stories. In any case, today is a very important day. The year was 1988. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-16_U14	Thank you. There's no further request. I thank everyone! The sitting is adjourned. Have a nice day.
