ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U1	Good morning, respectables. Let's start our weekly briefing. Checking for presence first. 37 members of the Riigikogu are present and 64 are absent. The following members of the government will take part in our Question Time today: Minister of the Interior Mart Helme Prime Minister, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab and Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk. As usual, members of the registered Riigikogu receive the floor first according to the order. Two minutes to ask the question, ministers have three minutes to answer the question, and the author of the question and one member of the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U2	The first question to be asked is Urmas Kruuse and is answered by the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, in the role of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Surveillance activities are serious violations of fundamental rights and surveillance activities may only be carried out with the written permission of the prosecutor's office or investigating judge. Surveillance is carried out only in the case of people who have evidence that they have committed a serious crime. At the beginning of December, Mart Järvik, the former Minister of Rural Affairs, was written in Pärnu Postimees about a meeting with the people of Tori, where he said he found an eavesdropping device in the minister's office. He also claimed that he had sent you, Minister, a letter that he had found it. Consequently, as a member of the Riigikogu, I sent you four questions on 10 December, but no answers were received. Would you like to comment on whether Mart Järvik simply lied or thought his story was a delusion that you didn't start checking out the so-called information? Because it does not make much sense that if a minister of the Republic of Estonia says that he is being eavesdropped or has an eavesdropping machine in his office, there will be no reaction. I'm asking for an answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U4	I may have misremembered, but I think your questions were answered. The answers stated that Mart Järvik had already left the ministerial office at that point, and I did not consider it necessary to go there for any follow-up. Now there's also information in the press that there's been some wifi amplification device in the office that gave a signal and was considered eavesdropping device by ex-minister Järvik. In my opinion, the whole issue is exhausted and there is no reason to talk about any illegal surveillance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U5	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U6	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The truth is that I have received a formal answer, which in fact means that you have answered my very specific questions, that, as the Minister of the Interior is aware, no action has been taken as a result of the return of the former Minister for Rural Affairs. In replying to an inquiry in the Riigikogu last week, you also used the same motive that since Minister Järvik has left, there is no reason to verify this fact. I don't think this is very right, and it could be a very dangerous precedent, because today a new minister is working there and he can't have the full certainty of whether or not there is a wire tap device. Therefore, I cannot be satisfied with this answer, especially because you asked for an extension to answer my written question, which I also received a yes, and I very much expected you to do so because you are doing this because you are carrying out certain procedures very thoroughly or to make it clear to yourself which operations have been carried out. Does it not seem strange to you that if one of the ministers of the Republic of Estonia raises such doubts, the only way to remove this doubt is by making a very specific check and telling the public that there was no device there at the moment you checked it? I am also a little disturbed by the fact that you yourself have been very sceptical about the facts that sounded in the press, which are at all about the life of Estonia and the world or about your party, and now you are saying that since it has been through in the public and in the press, you no longer consider [control] necessary. Tell me, is this normal for you or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U7	Well, for me, it really is normal that we do not use public resources to disprove all kinds of husks and journalistic speculation. State resources mean that we must order a technical departure from the competent organisation. It means working day, that is to mix work in this particular institution. In a situation where we don't think it's any more topical and even at all effective when a check is made at a time that obviously no longer results afterwards, if there was a device or if there was no device. So if a honourable member of the Riigikogu turns in writing and asks us to do so in this same office of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, we will, of course, do so unless your heart is satisfied. Of course we will! But at this point in time, I do not think that spending public resources is effective and results.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U8	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister! It bothers me a little bit that you're reducing this question to the Mart Järvik person. Mart Järvik has now been appointed to the Council of the Rural Promotion Foundation, which is also a very important position, particularly in promoting rural development. Could you maybe check his office so that Mart Järvik can get rid of the idea of being eavesdropped?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U10	I'm sorry! I didn't hear the end of your question. Can I check that Mart Järvik... what?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U11	Annely Akkermann, again, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U12	Thank you. Since Mart Järvik is still in a very high position in the Estonian country and he was probably bothered by the feeling that he was being eavesdropped and monitored, you may still be checking through his current office to reassure him.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U13	Look, we have a security authority control committee in the Riigikogu. The monitoring of an official eavesdropping of a member of the government or of a mere citizen is the responsibility of a special committee for the supervision of security authorities, not of the Minister for the Interior. The Minister of the Interior cannot control or control eavesdropping, because to do so we have the appropriate authorities to obtain the respective authorisations from the law enforcement authorities. In this case, Mart Järvik, by the way, is not in that high position. If I remember correctly, his payment at the Rural Promotion Foundation is some kind of a few hundred euros a month, which is probably not the kind of remuneration that should now cause some kind of corrupt, I can't say, specific control of the objectives. I'm just seeing this little bully about Mart Järvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U14	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U15	Next, question 2. Performs by Jevgeni Ossinovski and meets the Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U16	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, At the end of last year, the European Union agreed on climate neutrality in the context of a deepening global climate crisis by 2050, and the Estonian government supported it very reasonably. As a result, the European Commission has started to come up with various legislative proposals that will implement it. Last week there was a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a fair transition fund. While working through these materials and looking a little bit at this public discussion, I have a question that I would like to ask you. Indeed, according to this proposal, oil shale is indeed spoken of separately, and it is said in this context that the oil shale industry needs special attention because it is a very high-carbon sector. At the same time, we are listening to the various members of the government, including the Minister of Finance, who has just said that the Estonian Government has a clear plan to do two things at once: ask for money from the Fair Transfer Fund to stop processing oil shale and, on the other hand, use taxpayers' money to invest in the construction of new production capacities in the oil shale industry. In this case, we are talking about a refinery, but this year's state budget also includes the establishment of a new oil plant in Eesti Energia. Since the proposal for a fair transition fund clearly states that this territorial plan, the Ida-Virumaa plan, aims to phase out this sector, if you were in the European Commission and read Estonia's plan, which seeks money in the same way to restructure and at the same time invests 600 million in new oil shale processing plants, how would you view such a plan? Would it seem...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U17	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U18	...for you to have a sound mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U19	Thank you, good questioner! Fortunately, I am not in the role of the European Commission that I should make this assessment. But I will continue to say, as I have said before, that yes, a refinery or an oil plant does not support and support environmental objectives. That's what I've said before. But ruling the state is not the sole competence of the Ministry of the Environment. The country is managed significantly more, and part of it is also compromises. We need to look at how to move forward in the light of socio-economic aspects, how to make this mineral worthwhile. These arguments, which have been put on the table and which continue to be discussed today have not yet come from this plant, are going ahead, and if economic analyses still show that this is reasonable, and we can also achieve the goal of climate neutrality by 2050 in this focus, then we will have to compromise. Not only in the Ministry of the Environment, but also in other areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U20	Thank you. Jevgeni Ossinovski, the question to be specified. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U21	Yes, I did not ask for you to be directly embodied by the European Commission, but I simply tried to draw attention to at least the seemingly schizophrenic situation in which the government, at the same time, I assume, and at the very least the signals that have come from the various members of the government, intend to use the financial opportunities that will be released in the context of a fair transition. These funds have been planned considerably more than 125 million, which has been discussed in public. Together with the various financial instruments foreseen for Estonia in this context, this amount, according to the European Commission, amounts to EUR 1.8 billion. It is a relatively large amount of money and, of course, it is very reasonable to use it as well. What I do not understand in this situation is how one and the same person can, in this case, support two things at the same time, the Government of the Republic. In other words, applying to the European Commission on the basis of an agreed plan, and the aim of the plan is to withdraw from oil shale financial resources from the European taxpayer in order to cope with the transition socially and economically, and at the same time, in a situation where private banks really no longer want to finance fossil fuel investments, and this also concerns our shale industry, to put taxpayers' money on its part in order to actually build new production capacities. It is not even a question of what to think about the environmental objectives in this case; it simply does not seem in any way reasonable. It is possible to say that we are not interested in climate change, we are developing oil shale...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U22	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U23	... or it is possible to say the opposite. But how can two things be done at once?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U24	Thank you. I'm not going to judge whether it's sane or not, I don't have this qualification, who's here with common sense, who isn't. But the fact is that in the future, money is needed in education, medicine and many other areas. So you have to move on with the oil shale as long as it makes sense. Several studies and analyses are currently underway at the Ministry of the Environment as to how our universities, both the University of Tartu and the University of Technology, carry out different studies and what are these possible future optimal oil shale enhancement technologies. The fact is, information changes every day. The information we had yesterday may be quite different today. In the light of what you have described here, also from a European perspective, these decisions must be reviewed and discussed. It's perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U25	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This is indeed an interesting situation that has arisen. On the one hand, Estonia wants to get 125 million from the Fair Transition Fund to meet its climate goals, as well as some from other funds and then its own contribution. The amount of 125 million coincides with what this year's contribution of the Estonian state budget to the construction of a new oil plant for Eesti Energia. One hand wants money from Europe and the other hand puts money in exactly the opposite direction. But I'm asking you how far the plans of this oil factory are. Here the Minister of Finance answered this question and was left in a bit of trouble because this money, 125 million, is already in this year's budget for the construction of a new oil plant. He started telling me that at least this money is needed for the project, but maybe you can open up the discussions that the government has had about the new oil plant. How far is it anyway? Will this year's construction of this new oil plant start or not, and these funds will be in the budget for some other purpose, for example, with regard to dividend washing? When does this oil factory start?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U27	Thank you, good questioner! I cannot answer that to you from this point of view; it is, in fact, the task of the Minister for Economic Affairs. And this, I think, should not be criticised for the fact that the Estonian state and government are trying to find all kinds of funding from various sources. I think this is a perfectly reasonable process, and I hope that whoever is in control of the Estonian state will try to find resources elsewhere, including in the European Union. But where this process is and what the situation is, the Minister for Economic Affairs is best able to say today. We in the Ministry of the Environment will make sure that all environmental aspects are as well protected and preserved as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U28	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U29	The next question is question No 3, which is presented by Annely Akkermann, and which is answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister! The main axis of Estonian regional policy has been the development of regional growth centres in recent years. But, unfortunately, Harjumaa and Tallinn have moved forward with an ever faster step in other regions. The Development Monitoring Centre has examined these issues and produced four scenarios. The first is the economic development concentrated in the large centres of Suur-Tallinn in the context of the current way of life and the slow change in the economic model. The number two is the development model based on the local centres in Estonia, which are managed by local centres, under slow ecological adjustment conditions. The third is an eco-capitalist model, an export-oriented development model that takes into account the capacity of the natural environment to withstand, but which is concentrated in production. And the fourth is the more ecological and social way of life of eco- communities in Estonia, with a more local and dispersed economy. My question is what strategy you prefer and how you put your preferred strategy (or any other) into practice, so that Estonia does not empty out and people do not move to Tallinn once and for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U31	Honourable Chairman! Honourable questioner! Thank you for the question, continue to be topical. Let's just say that when I look at which activities are important in the public administration portfolio, there are a lot of important activities, but regional policy, or regional development, is certainly one of the closest to my heart. You have given an example here of the comparison of the various growth or development scenarios presented by the Centre for Development and you have read out these possible scenarios. It is clear that if we look at what the current government wants to do in terms of developing regions, in terms of developing these growth centres, we could say 'with one tree', that this is the Estonia of growth centres, which, as far as I know, at this introduction as the Development Monitoring Centre introduced its analysis, where I was, very many supported. But it certainly is not an absolute formula, because if I read (I took it with me here): is eco-capitalistic Estonia and eco-congregations Estonia. We will certainly find opportunities for development in these scenarios as well. The least-supported scenario, and I hope that this is also the political will of the current government, is the Greater Tallinn, which is the measures that the country is taking, uniform for all regions where money, resources, people are concentrated in a single region. This is our serious concern. We are working very hard to achieve this, given that a new period of EU funding is approaching, CO2 instruments and others are being used. Recently, there has also been talk about this climate package and Green Deal, which has a fair transition fund, which we could also support at least one region quite seriously. Just yesterday, we met the Rural Promotion Foundation and KredEx, and even four ministers were together. These measures, which are currently in place to support investment, support entrepreneurship, support housing in rural areas, need to be reviewed, new measures developed and existing ones made more suitable and more flexible for rural areas. So there are a lot of measures at work. I really hope they'll help.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U32	Annely Akkermann, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U33	I'm going to give you one more chance to clarify, because there's a time limit for me and you. You said that there are different measures, but please open them up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U34	These measures, which we are now talking about as specific tasks in the work plan of the Government of the Republic, are in fact February this deadline, we are talking about housing and corporate investment loans in terms of guarantees or subsidies. These are the new measures proposed by both the Rural Promotion Foundation and KredEx. I can't describe them in detail. I say that they are feasible, many financially not too much budget money, they are financial instruments, and such a fundamental decision must be reached in the near future, that we are taking it to the office and that this is cooperation in a number of areas: the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the administration of the Minister of State Administration, is an administrative area of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Information Technology, where KredEx is located. So good work has been done by administrative officials, specialists, relevant foundations, and we are on the way to the office with quite concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U35	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This is a well-known fact that urbanisation is taking place with continued momentum and the question is where to set priorities. One question is whether to make sure that those who already live in rural areas can live there in good quality, or whether to create such airfalls that we are able to inhabit the land in addition to the great crowds. One of the last plans we've heard in this Chamber is this one hundred million plan that Minister Järvik has already left. But my concern is more common. I'm sure you in your ministry are also familiar with the problems that move through cities and rural municipalities. And one issue concerns the possible amendment of the KIC Regulation, which then concerns investments in water and sewerage routes, which are intended to raise the own contribution rate of municipalities to 50%. This means that there are already clear signals that municipalities are not actually able to fulfil it. This concern is particularly in those regions that are smaller, we are talking there about 50+ [user]. In my opinion, the project carried out by the state in cooperation with the municipalities was a very grateful project, 2000+ water and sewerage projects. Now we are in a situation where we are talking about new projects, but existing projects cannot be financed. This, in my opinion, is a very big sign that it will be difficult for local authorities to co-finance certain projects in the next period, given that self-financing will increase. Have you asked your neighbouring minister what would make it possible to prevent the KIC from implementing such a regulation and this own contribution rate would still be 30%?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U37	Thank you for your question. After all, the subject you referred to, or what you were referring to, I suppose you can still tell you that, during the new funding period of the European Union, where, for the most part, these funds come from, for example, the KIC programmes, but not only, there is also national money. It's in the negotiating phase. Well, everyone knows that the EMF framework is likely to lock down only in the second half of the year. And there are initial proposals from the Commission, which means an overall own contribution rate, which, of course, concerns when investment programmes reach municipalities, as well as their own contribution rate. I, in the discussions at the Cabinet of Government, have also suggested that we have a separate working group set up for this purpose that these rates of ownership, if we are talking only about local governments, but why not companies, could be differentiated regionally. If it goes to a more capable region, more capable municipalities, the participation rate will be higher. In certain measures, we have tried this financial capacity indicator with CO2 measures, that this participation rate was set, for example, according to the financial capacity of the municipality. Where the financial capacity was lower, especially in rural areas, the level of own contribution was lowered. There is going to be some kind of all-Estonian part that we need to put in there more European money, but we can differentiate it ourselves, no one will forbid it. I stand for the countryside. And by that I mean all county centres, all rural centres and all rural areas in general, not only in the field of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, but also in the field of the Minister of State Administration, in the area of other ministries. I very much hope (in the planning of these funds I will keep an eye on) that every minister will also be a regional minister. That's what I keep stressing. I really don't know the details about KIC. I believe that they are being negotiated and that the proposals of the Cities and Municipalities Association will certainly be taken into account, and the Minister for the Environment, sitting at my right hand, will probably be better able to comment on this detail. I was talking about the general direction and the general principle, which I will certainly go to the government to defend when we are talking about the money for the next funding period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U38	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U39	Question 4. Performs by Jaak Juske and meets the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U40	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr. Helme! Your party has promised to leave the government several times in the last nine months. For example, when the Prime Minister dismisses Minister Järvik. But, as we know, all these promises have remained empty words. Now you have once again spoken great words and threatened to leave the government if the Ministry of Social Affairs continues to support sexual minorities. The Ministry has done this before and will certainly do so in the future, but as we can see, you are not going anywhere from the government, because power is sweet. EKRE has become a typical power party that wants to remain in power at all costs. It seems to me, Mr Helme, that you have lost your spine, that you have become ridiculous, because these threats are just to fool your constituents. Mr. Helme, why have you lost your spine?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U41	I was wondering if I'd stand up or not, because if there's no spine, you can't stand up. But the reality is, you see, a respected nationalist, there are good politicians and there are bad politicians. Good politicians are those who find compromises in conflicts, can find its centre of gravity, which provides an opportunity to move the political swings forward. When you're saying here that we said we're leaving the government again, no, we didn't. We said that we could not be in the same government as this minister if we continued this style. Maybe you're going to make an extension out of this and conclude that it's possible not to leave the government, but to make a war in the government, if we can explain this reasoning now. But good politicians can negotiate with each other, good politicians can look outward and forward from a particular situation and perhaps agree that there will be no more conflicts between the parties on certain issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U42	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U43	Mr. Helme! It's good to see you have a spine, it seems, still. It is just as nice that the Ministry of Social Affairs will certainly continue to campaign on the rights of sexual minorities in the future. Are you going to demand the Minister's leave, or are you going to leave the government? If you have a spine, answer clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U44	Again, there are good politicians and there are bad politicians. Good politicians look forward to and see that in April we will have to discuss the country's budgetary strategy. And during the discussion of the country's budgetary strategy... This will be preceded by an audit of the state budget. During the review and during the discussion of the strategy, the effectiveness, feasibility and necessity of all kinds of expenditure will also be reviewed. In this case, we can see that one of the largest, if I am not mistaken, is the Ministry of Social Affairs with the highest budget. The Ministry of Social Affairs has a wide range of cost lines that can certainly be redirected. In this case, perhaps, if I remember correctly, instead of using some 4 million of all kinds of propaganda campaigns, it may be more sensible to redirect it to support, help and, if necessary, provide additional resources to disabled people, single mothers, the elderly living alone and other social groups. These are political choices, and since your question was about political choices, here are the political choices, and these are the political choices we are going to make in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U45	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U46	Thank you, good Chairman. Mr. Helme! My question comes about the political choices that the government will have to make here in the near future between the modern technological leap and the long years of anchoring East Viru County to the technology of the past, i.e. polluting oil shale energy. Without doubt, the oil shale industry has been very important in history for Estonia. But I think anyone who knows a little bit and sees what's going on in the world will realize that this time is now over, that the time for fossil, polluting fuels is coming to an end. In view of all of this, Estonia still has the perfect opportunity to take the opportunity to make a modern technological leap again, as we once did in the example of the digital transition. I think it's also the perfect opportunity to design a modern technology center from Ida-Virumaa. And yet you continue to speak with serious faces in the government that it is planned to invest in hundreds of millions in this very same technology of the past, the oil shale sector. To be honest, it seems just as reasonable to consider investing in a billboard factory while quantum computers are being spoken around the world and quantum computers are being developed. My question is: what are the alternatives that you compare with this investment? What are the other modern investments in modern technology that the government has considered instead of investing in the oil shale sector, and what do you have to prefer or prefer the oil shale sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U47	Well, it's a whole other opera now. Of course, here too, it can be said that it is a question of political choices, I think, of political choices. The political choice is very harsh: do we tell all these Narva and Ida-Virumaa energetics, miners, engineers, their family members that the Estonian state no longer needs you as providers of these services? The state of Estonia will register you as unemployed, and will pay you income support from the large budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The planet, you see, will be destroyed if you continue mining here and if we build an oil shale oil plant and everything. Well, don't really detach from reality! The reality is that a transitional period is also needed. It is not the case that we snap with our finger, close the mines, shut the power plants, stop investing in these technologies and tell all the 100000 people to look for themselves, go to Finland, go somewhere else, it is not our concern, the Estonian state does not care about your life and how you cope. You can't do that! And this is the place of political choices. We will not leave these people without a transitional period, without re-educating them, without providing them with new jobs, without guaranteeing them social dignity. This is the place of political choice. New technologies. The current government has begun to....how do I say?..overcoming the need for new technologies, the implementation and the mapping of the necessary investments, well, the campaign is not the right word for an operation. And the deadlines, by the way, are very short. We can already see that the real need for investment in new technologies is very high. Very big! It is more than EUR 100 million. This money must also be found somewhere, and it must also be found during the transitional period. It is very easy to say that we are shutting down and climate neutrality and Greta Thunberg etc. The real life is much more complicated and tougher. We still have to take into account that the country is for people, and these people are, among other things, miners and energetics.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U48	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U49	The next question is Question 5. Presents Toomas Kivimägi and meets the Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Many big words and statements have been made on the subject of state reform, but actions often remain several steps behind it. The state reform Radari, which is a joint initiative of the Estonian Employers' Confederation and the think tank Praxis, which monitors the progress of the state reform, was evaluated by the honourable College in December last year for the progress of the state reform of the new government, and this is not very pleasant. 'Governance is characterized by a deep gap between actions and words. [---] The Radar College is seriously concerned about a fall in the quality of government administration. ' I also feel that there is little ambition in the reform of the state. If we take the State Reform Action Plan of the Government of the Republic until 2023, there is one measure that the proportion of government employees will not increase by less than 12%, as it is today. In theory, this may also mean that the number of employees is increasing, but knowing that the overall number of employees is decreasing, it does not, of course, practically mean that. However, when the proportions are out of place, these proportions remain out of place for this purpose. As a minister, do you acknowledge that this proportion, almost 12% in the government sector, is correct? And if you do not recognise this, why not adopt a more ambitious target, for example, to reduce the proportion of government employees to 11%? e-solutions are also one of the cornerstones of the reduction in the number of employees and the reform of the state. Here, too, the new IT Minister, Mr Bear, is harsh with fresh eyes: 'For many years technical debt has been allowed to grow. Estonians expect more from the e-state than just fine-tuning old systems. The e-state must not exist in a permanent pre-crisis state. ' How do you comment? Finally, as there is little news about the reform of the state recently, I wonder if the reform of the state is on a break. If not, perhaps you would give a definition of state reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U51	Thank you again for the current question. The state reform is not on a break. I think there are a lot of people sitting in this hall who have been in government, even in previous years. The state is constantly seeking more effective and better forms of governance, better services and also more efficient services, which do not require too much money. It's about the development of the e-state and various information technology options, as you said, I can read history to you. Why did we adopt the initial action plan for this reform of the state? In the near future, I intend to bring to the government the draft decision of the state reform, which comes to the Riigikogu and therefore I ask you to support the proposals that I make and what the government does. The initial State Reform Action Plan, which we adopted on 1 August, has 39 points. The aim of the state reform is to shape the state governance that is sustainable, efficient and responsive to the needs of the population. This principle is enshrined in the draft decision on the reform of the state. We do it all the time. There's something to be prepared for. While probably some of you had a slightly easier summer period, I worked pretty hard, went through all the ministers, all the ministries' management. At that time, the consolidation of the agencies and also the view of the potential regional location of the public authorities, i.e. the location of their jobs, was a topical issue. We discussed it quite seriously, and the first birds have already been in the office. Last week, the Ministry of Education and Research was in the government office with a plan asking for consent to consolidate foundations and institutions in the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research. The same thing happened to the Ministry of Rural Affairs. In the near future it should come to the Ministry of the Environment, then the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and then on the Mare's project, I think you've heard about the various areas of ministry administration that link land planning, construction and spatial design. Our days are full of work. I welcome the fact that we are also talking about a regionally balanced country in the context of state reform. And as I mentioned once, these measures will be coming to the office in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U52	Thank you. Toomas Kivimägi, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U53	Thanks! Minister, thank you very much. I will repeat one part of this question. Do you consider the proportion that almost 12% of the total number of employees in the government sector is working properly or not? Or should they be smaller? But my second question actually concerns the regional administration department and its departments. I myself have worked in this field for a long time, seen both the rise and the fall of rural governments. More on the sidelines, but quite frankly, by today's day, and in fact, I did not vote in favour of this decision, too, I have begun to doubt whether the abolition of rural governments was the right thing to do. Initially, the decrease in the number of employees was presented as a major job gain. Indeed, when this regional administration department and departments were set up, there were 70 workers in the circuit versus 470 employees in the rural governments. Well, it sounds very proud and proud. However, as quickly as jobs were lost in rural governments, they were created in many other parts of the country, both in state institutions and in local governments, to whom the functions of rural governments were transferred. A good colleague of yours, a coalition partner, who, while preferring to work in the Riigikogu, because I have not talked it through to him exactly, I do not mention his name either, but you can assume that this number of employees is already practically the same as in rural governments at the time. So there really wasn't any victory. Is it like this or not? There is another problem, why I doubt it. The Pärnu Regional Management Department employs four people, all the good people and the tragedy people. The sign is, of course, bigger than the country government had in its day, but it's also a sign. But the problem is that there is no institution that represents the county as a whole. There aren't any more. Everything's fragmented. One possible alternative to this could also be to keep the course of that rural government as a single municipality. As a result, I wonder whether you are going to propose additional measures by the government to stimulate local governments to join additional grants and bonuses...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U54	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U55	...including a separate grant for the county as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U56	Yeah, my time's short, too. If I started talking about all the employees' bills in the public sector, Thomas, you know the sun would go before it was set. But I hope you don't play with those numbers from now on. The Employers' Confederation also plays with figures. The public sector includes hospitals, police officers, rescuers, etc., where the number of employees in certain sectors is really increasing. When we talk about the national central government sector and officials, there are 8 000 employees in the public service sector. These are then ministries, agencies, agencies, with an annual reduction of several hundred. That's the line we're holding. One of the actions that is aimed at, which is likely to reduce jobs, is the same consolidation. Is it massive? I don't think so. But in any case, preventing the swelling that has occurred in the meantime. It is not going to say a specific ministry once again, but with the distribution of European Union funds, it has become beyond comprehension. The second problem, which we have also mapped in the office and are monitoring in its consolidation, is that policy development has spread to foundations and agencies somewhere. It's the ministry's job. Implementation is already the responsibility of the agencies and their sub-offices. This is one serious challenge. As far as the Regional Administration Department is concerned, 65 [people] are currently working there. These were functions that really partly came from rural governments. Most went to local government, respective ministries, agencies and agencies. There are mainly planners, local government advisors and archivists. During this year, the number of these employees across Estonia will decrease by about 18. They're basically archivists because they've done their job, their job was temporary, and it was known. Who's representing the county now? I would say that we have always wanted local authorities to represent the county in cooperation. For example, we have also provided additional funding to implement regional development strategies prepared by municipalities. They deal directly with the respective ministries, agencies and agencies. There is not much to decide on the ground. We also want to bring it together so that, first of all, the centre of the state is maintained in that house. As far as coordination is concerned now, the Head of the Regional Management Department should also be a coordinator in terms of cooperation between the authorities. Then this merger grant. Yeah, we've made up our minds. We'll be back in the spring. The fundamental decision is that we will continue to support the emergence of municipalities of the county size. Is this happening in 2021? I don't know, it may be 2025, but it's a forward-looking decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U57	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Speaking of state reform, certainly in general terms and also in substantive terms, one part of it was the reform of municipalities or municipalities, no matter what we call it. But it got a little awkward towards the end. I remember Loksa's case, which certainly didn't really do this government any credit, he bravely maintained his independence. We saw such cases where [municipal governments] were joined together by force and community - based agreements were violated. But my question is a lot simpler. Every time you come here, I want to ask you this question, and I'd like to get an answer. You know what I'm asking. I want to ask what happens to Tartu's old ERM house. I don't think it's wise for a country to hold on to assets that it doesn't use for years to come when it's known there's an interest. Can we end this embarrassing moment on the map of the city of Tartu in such a way that those who wish to give this house a soul and a life can take action there? When will the government take this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U59	Thank you! Again, the current issues have been mapped out in this sense, that some are really hanging up late. As regards administrative-territorial reform, I have always said that the administrative-territorial reform ended in 2017. All the activities that we are doing, and which have already been carried out in some cases by the previous government, are also raising the revenue base. Well, I'm not tired of repeating. In three years, when we look at the figures for the 2020 budget, municipal revenue has risen on average by 30%. 30%! I do not know of such an increase in any other area. It is also a clear regional policy decision to make it easier for municipalities to design their living environment, to provide services in different regions. And we are now also trying to support cooperation between local governments at the county level so that they can become a development engine, a leader in development. I mentioned the country's development strategy money. That's $6 million. It is not very big, but it can be complemented at the expense of various instruments. It is aimed specifically at cooperation. I don't know if there's gonna be any county-sized municipalities, I don't know. Time will tell. The ERM house. Yeah, I'll give you a comparison. I don't know why, but all kinds of constructions and real estate, I've been wondering why for many years. I remind you of the Patarei fortress. Must have been a ten-year discussion on what to do with it. And I remember this heated argument in the office, where it was feared that we were going now to no longer know what risk, we did not know what we were doing when we suggested that the country would not have such a need in the near future. We're gonna bury 100 million in it, but what are we gonna put in there? We found a pretty good solution that reflects history as a museum, but most of this complex goes into multifunctional development. Thank God there was also an Estonian developer who has taken matters seriously elsewhere. I hope this becomes a long-standing thing. I don't know about ERM. There was no political consensus in the previous government, where probably the different sides of the coalition, one wants one, the other one. You know how hard it is to make a decision when all three are not on one side. The ERM issue continues to be raised. How this will be resolved, whether political decision or any agreement can be reached with the city of Tartu, where the country may need to get some property from the city of Tartu, does not know, negotiations are ongoing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U60	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U61	The next question is question 6, tabled by Riina Sikkut and answered by the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U62	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! During the last nine to ten months, it is possible for me, too, for many others in the media, that much confusion and contradictions have been caused by a different understanding of the Minister's work. For example, is Delfi a channel of ministerial communication? It makes sense to me to pick up a colleague in the sleeve or call or send us. If there is a desire to send a message to the Minister of Justice that the candidate for the state prosecutor must be there to name the IT Minister, then this does not have to be done via the media. Secondly, each minister has his own responsibility. Yes, wider cross-cutting discussions in the government office are, of course, natural and welcome, but speaking on behalf of another minister in the media, including foreign media, will require a later patch-up, both here and on the border. When you answered Jaak Juske, you described how you are going to go into the detailed budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and this also raises questions. Thirdly, the Minister's work is often a set of major directions and focus, and for me, the surprising speech by Martin Helme on the Ministry of Social Affairs campaign 'Everything is different, but just as many people', which places responsibility for the messages of the campaign on the Minister for Social Affairs. In this respect, I ask: have you approved and discussed campaign messages, visuals and costs in the case of campaigns concerning safe swimming, train penetration, use of seat belt, non-use of the phone at the wheel, compliance with the limit speed, non-driving drunk, use of smoke detectors and control? Have you done this and should Tanel Kiik do this only for equality policy campaigns or also for mobility, healthy nutrition, smart parenthood campaigns?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U63	It is clear that this is a demagogic issue that is trying to cut political professionalism. It is entirely your right as a vigilante and politician. I mean, the issue is in a shift. And he's shifted in the sense that I think we had a question on TV3 two or three days ago, and I don't exactly remember the wording, but basically, is that the campaign we're talking about upsetting you? The fact that everyone is equal, everyone is human, whatever it's called. 86% of callers said it upset them, it disturbs them, it's not acceptable to them. The question now is that, of course, all kinds of campaigns are being carried out. Campaigns of whining sensors, campaigns of smoke detectors, sober driving campaigns, and all kinds of things. The question now is what is the resonance of society when it comes to various issues, various campaigns. It is quite clear that if you ask whether you support driving drunk, I think that more than 90% of people will answer that they do not. This is clearly a consensual position in society. But if 86% of calls respond that this particular campaign upsets us, and there are two parties in the government who have repeatedly raised this issue, they have said that it is an issue that is important to their voters and that they do not want solo to be done, then it is clear that such cases should be discussed in the coalition, how and whether we do such campaigns at all. The issue is the sensitivity of the topics and it is clear that this is a sensitive issue. This is a sensitive issue and it will remain a sensitive issue in the foreseeable future. It is therefore normal that, in such cases, preliminary consultations be held which were not held in the present case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U64	Riina Sikkut, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U65	Thank you. For example, I cannot appreciate how many people are upset about the sober driving campaign or asking for a sober steering wheel, but frankly, I have been very surprised by the reactions to the Ministry of Social Affairs' campaign. Is that the opinion of 86% of people, Lauri Vahtre's assessment of the campaign as an infantile campaign of tolerance? Riina Solman deplored the irritating performance of the campaign, the Blue Awakening is convinced that putting species ownership ahead of ethnicity is arbitrary and unwarranted, and that the campaign is subversive, provocative, nationalism and conservative views of society. Yet you are a minister in a government that aims for a coherent and caring society. For me, it's completely incomprehensible how... Whether it is a foreign citizen who married an Estonian, a person who comes to work in this IT company, or a Yemeni refugee, but if his child is Raheem, Jaden or Juan Carlos going to school in Estonia, does the government really approve that a group or classmate can bully a child depending on who their parents are? Is this a cohesive and caring society we're building?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U66	Well, that's why we're not in one party, you're in one party, and I'm in another. I find such campaigns irritating society, disrupting society. There are all laws in Estonia since the Constitution and ending with all the laws that guarantee public order, which say that people cannot be persecuted, neither schoolchildren nor other people, depending on whether they are them, others or thirds. These are all legal things. At the same time, we are breaking the law, guaranteeing decent living for the disabled, and then throwing hundreds of thousands of thousands! This is the kind of campaign that divides society. But sissies can't get to the store because the stores are closed. Now comes the pharmacy reform, which I also have a question about here. It is likely that the pharmacies will soon be shut down as a result of this reform. People don't get a pharmacy, those pussies. But we're spending money to split society, upset people. This isn't normal! As a party and as one of the parties to this government, we have a full political mandate to express our frustration. With your mandate, you have the full right to express your frustration and that is it. But once again, in society, we need to find this point of balance where we do not irritate each other and divide society. If such a campaign irritates and divides, then we need to think deeply about whether or not to campaign like this. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U67	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U68	Thank you. Mr. Helme! Because, of course, it is a pity that you are upset and you don't like the Riigikogu with your questions, you don't like your government who doesn't listen to you. Of course, this campaign involves more difficult situations than one person's irritation, in that sense it is not necessary to be so upset. But my question. You promised this campaign that this government wouldn't have a long party. You can't work with Tanel Swing. Tell me when you get to the decision and how you get to the decision. Are you going to rule in turns? One leaves, the other leaves, do you take the lottery? A man's word is given, how do you put it into practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U69	You know what my mom said when there was a problem? You have to talk, talk and talk. We'll talk in private, we'll make a deal. Do not hold your hopes in vain.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U70	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U71	The next question is No. 7, presented by Yoko Alender and answered by the Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U72	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Dear Minister, Let's talk about the woods. Forest is an important renewable natural raw material and an employer for many, on the other hand, a part of our cultural identity. Many identify with Estonian nature and consider it a very important part of their identity. Our clean nature and biodiversity are also important in tourism, as has recently been expressed by the head of EAS, for example, and certainly our forest is of its own value. Forests are playing an ever-increasing role in climate change. As a member of the Riigikogu, i.e. if all the material is available, it is very difficult to understand what the state of the Estonian forest is now. I think it is difficult for people all over Estonia to understand this too. A lot of people are worried not to say upset, even angry. Members of your party have also expressed serious concerns about the Estonian forest. As a minister, you are certainly best informed of the state of the Estonian forest. What is the current state and future of Estonian forestry?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U73	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable questioner! First of all, I want to thank you, I think I can tell you that you've been trying to get the voice of reason to people. As I've understood and noticed, you've got a lot of skin for it. The same is true of the Estonian forest. Indeed, in society there are statements of hysteria. To be a bit ironic, it is quite interesting to note that a large part of Estonia's people seem to have another education in forestry alongside the main job. A lot of people think they know exactly what's going on in the Estonian forest. I do want to reassure the people of Estonia from this remote control: there is no reason to heat up hysteria like the one currently taking place on Facebook. At the same time, I understand the reasons. As the process of preparing the 2030 Forest Development Plan is currently underway, it is perfectly understandable that each of the various stakeholders brings forward its own message. Now, if we're talking about RMK and the charges against it, I don't think RMK's gonna cut the woods unbridled and there's no more woods anywhere. A great deal of emotional criticism is heard. No, these problems aren't that bad. I can imagine some people looking at us right now thinking, "He's a jerk, you should take it down right now, talk like that. But I still support forest management, I consider it reasonable. True, problems and concerns need to be discussed. I will also talk about some of the steps that are being taken in the ministry. We intend to make a few changes to the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act. One of these is the reduction of the cutting-up strips. It is currently seven hectares, but it is planned to move it back to five hectares as before from 1 January 2021. Then, in all nature reserves, a cutting reef must be established. Once before I was here, a roommate asked me if I was joking. But I'm not kidding, right now nature reserves allow certain types of felling at a certain time. From next year, we will establish such a procedure that during the nesting season, cutting in nature reserves is completely prohibited, both in the state forest and in private forest. In addition, we will review the crushing of branches during the nesting of birds. There has been a lot of talk about whether there should be signs in the logging sites outside who does what or does what. It's on the machines right now, but we know we can't approach the machines, 50 meters is minimum. There is also a requirement that storage sites bear a label on who is carrying out the work there, which is the permit number, and so on, so that the person can see what it is. There's work going on in this regard. But I will reassure everyone: there is no reason to worry, it is not as bad with Estonia's forests as it is trying to show us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U74	Yoko Alender, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U75	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Minister, thank you for your reply. However, I think we can agree that there has been a great deal of pressure on the market to cut down in previous years. I understand the private owners who have really wanted to do this management as effectively as possible, there is no way to blame them. But I think RMK could have, at least in my understanding, a balancing effect. In fact, the role of RMK also has a very strong nature conservation and cultural side. However, I do not think that the human concern has come from a rather empty point of view. Since the time of the previous government, this profit of RMK, which goes to the state budget, has still increased considerably. This must be the biggest one ever, if I'm not mistaken. How do you see the role of RMK? Do you agree with my view that RMK could play a balancing role, unlike private forest owners?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U76	Thank you. RMK has undoubtedly a balancing role in Estonian forestry. We already have over 300,000 hectares of protection, we have different types of protection. RMK carries out nature conservation work, restores ice, makes forest trails, etc. We also have forest education. In short, RMK does a lot of nature conservation work, but unfortunately, the opponents do not talk about it. It makes sense, that's what the country has to do, but we're very quick to lock up. As far as cutting volumes are concerned, the volumes we have now had have already been agreed in the past. The forestry development plan is currently under preparation. There we need to get these things right, which we have the following developments in Estonia, how much we want to close the forest in the first place, how much we want to cut in the future. I've been asked what I'm saying about one thing or another. It must be understood that if we look at the designer of the forestry development plan, the management body or the company that is there, it is a very, very representative group of natural people, there are foresters, there are university scientists, there are tourist entrepreneurs, there are representatives of the rural economy, etc. If these top Estonian players in this area are not competent to agree on anything or find a golden solution, then I will ask who is. I don't underestimate the MAK task force and what's going on there. No doubt, as I have always said, it makes perfect sense to review matters and to discuss regulation. It has to be done all the time, because life is constantly changing, things are changing. But there's no reason to be hysterical. We need to talk. For those who are very upset and find that everything is bad, I say what I have said before: please remove this forest collection from the Ministry of the Environment and see who is there. I'm sure you'll find a target group and a representative of your activities. If you are a small forest owner, you may find someone in a private forest union, if you are a representative of the big industry or a major industrialist, find your representative. There's someone there for everyone. Pass on your message through MAK. Discuss, fight and find out what the right development is. I think we'll find solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U77	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U78	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, The role of the Minister of the Environment in the Government of the Republic is to be the only minister who really stands up for Estonian nature, protects our natural diversity and stands up for it. This role is certainly not easy. In this government, it is likely to be a double challenge. But my question comes about forestry in an international context. We can see what has happened recently to the Amazon forests or what is happening now in Australia. There are similar fires in quite a number of areas. It has brought all forestry, including these very large-scale cuttings, into a much sharper and wider international focus. What positions does Estonia represent in these discussions at international level? How do the discussions that deal with the need for logging, reforestation and conservation of natural diversity internationally affect Estonia's own forestry policy in the future? Can you give it a small assessment and a summary of the state of play in the international context today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U79	Thank you. Yes, a good questioner certainly knows from his own experience that the office of the Minister of the Environment offers certain challenges, as all ministers have their own. Now, when we talk about what Estonia's position is internationally or how we look forward, knowing that more than 51% of Estonia's land area with inland waterways is under the forest. There are not many countries that can tell Estonia that you have done something bad or that you have something bad. However, we do have a major problem today, on which the Ministry of the Environment clearly believes that it needs to be reviewed and solutions found, namely deforestation. The problem of deforestation is huge in the world as a whole and we are also dealing with this issue in Estonia. Because with deforestation, however, we are getting a lot of forest and woodland out of use. This is the main focus we need to focus on and think about how to solve it. Should it be taxed in any way? Guess it's wise to consider it. We are thinking that if we move woodland away from [usage] under construction, under roads, there should also be some sort of compensation mechanism, such as increasing nature reserves somewhere, foresting the land. Rather, it is the issue of deforestation and deforestation that is now bigger on a global scale. From the point of view of cutting, I would say that there is nothing wrong with Estonia. Let me give you another example. RMK chops the circa 1% of the state forest annually. It is often said to be superlative, as if we had an insane clear cutting, so that nothing is seen anywhere and there is no forest. But that's not true. In fact, RMK chops one per cent a year. Anyone can calculate for themselves how many years the forest will be ripe again. But discussions are always welcome, whether this MAK is ready or not, or what time it is. If there are good suggestions on how to do something better or different, then the Ministry of the Environment is always prepared to discuss them. It's not a locked process. I always call on people: if there are proposals, come and discuss. In this sense, I am convinced that you cannot blame me or the Ministry of the Environment for not being able to communicate or listen to and discuss in the last eight and a half months.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U80	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U81	The next question is question No 8, posed by Helmen Kütt and answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U82	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Minister of State Administration! In part, you have already explained to good colleagues Annely Akkermann and Urmas Kruus the activities of the Minister of Public Administration to ensure that life is possible throughout the country. It was very sympathetic for me to have your principle and your view that every minister should also be a'regional minister' in terms of his decisions and actions, that is to say, to look at Estonia as a whole. My question, however, concerns clarity between local authorities and the state in the field of education and social affairs. It is not unknown to anyone that if, for example, money is allocated to a payroll fund for educators, the actual wage increase promised cannot be made with this money. But I'm not a specialist in education, and that's why I'm focusing on the social field. Administrative-territorial reform made the situation worse in several municipalities. It is also no secret that the population is ageing and often the provision of social services or social protection depends on the place of residence. This isn't right. And I have a question for you in the light of the fact that the Supreme Court ruled on 9 December on a particular government, I mean the city of Narva. This decision concerned access to social services and local government decisions. The actual situation is worrying. On the one hand, the law imposes an obligation. You said that 30% has increased the amount of money allocated to municipalities. The state gives the municipalities many tasks, but it is not always covered with resources. What must local governments do to ensure people's expectations and hopes when it is known that money is not enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U83	Thank you for your question. Yes, again I can say that the topical question and he has not arisen overnight. I'm starting from the beginning that today I commented on it to an ERR journalist who had the same question. When the administrative-territorial reform was launched, I also asked how we can ensure that there are no new outermost regions in the new major municipalities in Estonia and that services are not less accessible throughout the territory. That's what you just referred to, Helmen. I'll be smarter to answer, maybe a little later. We are working on a service level monitoring project, which also includes social services. There are quite a few indicators for each service. Some are register- and statistical-based, but there are also certain interviews. We'd like to go public with this in the first half of the year. The municipality itself can also assess the level of its services. It's not 100 percent accurate, but it's at least pointing the way. And we are also trying to compare a little bit, although, unfortunately, such a database is not in the pre-administrative reform situation. It is aimed at ensuring that municipalities also have some input on how to pay attention to different areas. This teacher's salary thing just briefly says that, in fact, municipalities receive education support as a teacher's salary, where 20% is extra free: 80% takes account of the increase in the minimum wage and 20% is free. A few percent were reduced to this free portion. That was the case in order to ensure just the increase in the minimum wage, the increase in the minimum wage that has been agreed. But as regards social services, yes, also in the light of the decisions of the Supreme Court, to which the Chancellor of Justice has previously referred, he does not consider that all the requirements laid down by law are met by the municipalities. We also know that it is very uneven. There are municipalities that have made a serious effort in this area, and there are municipalities that have made less effort. Well, I guess that comes from the law and its interpretation, where this bar is what you have to do. Although, as the Supreme Court and the Chancellor of Justice claim, it is actually possible to read out of that law what must be done. Negotiations are under way and the Minister for Social Affairs has also proposed to map it in some way, analyse it and perhaps, with certain financial means, help it, be it long-term care, be it other social services, people with disabilities, etc. Something about the state giving some money and the municipality putting in more so that this service is properly covered. It's kind of like raising the pay of kindergarten teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U84	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U85	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for your reply. I'm sure I want to say that you're a good example of a good politician who doesn't say the questioner is stupid. I now have a question concerning the country's budgetary strategy. Indeed, it is likely that these negotiations will start in April-May. What priorities are you going to negotiate as Minister of Public Administration? Maybe it's possible to shed some light on us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U86	Thank you for your question. The state's budget strategy must be agreed by the end of April, according to the law. Last year was extraordinary because the elections were held, and it moved forward by one month. We're pretty serious, say, putting together a puzzle. Although, yes, the decision of the MFF will probably come from the European Union, as I said, during the German Presidency in the second half of the year. We can either predict here or watch the coffee grounds, what comes from there to Estonia, in which areas and in which measures. But I think the big picture is known. And we must then put into one picture the resources of the state budget and the European Union's resources, somewhere there are also CO2 resources, emission resources that we can use to solve these problems. I will certainly take as priorities, or at least as requests to the government, the things that come to the negotiations with the local governments. It's like this every year. We have a long negotiating protocol that sets out the requests. Luckily last year we found an agreement, municipalities understand reality, and recently their income base has increased. We had a disagreement about the roads. But I think, as you also said, that this time there are topical social issues where the Ministry, along with the local government delegation, is setting up an application. I'm sure I'll protect it. Of course, my own administration is the same area of development and contribution to the same regions, as well as support for businesses in creating new jobs, support for cooperation between municipalities in developing regions and investments, and regional programmes, which the next questioner will certainly ask about. How do I put it? I feel a little optimism. I don't know what it's based on. A little maybe on certain trends, when we are talking about a region that starts outside Tallinn and Harjumaa. In some centres, the balance of migration is interestingly even positive. And then let's say the capacity of the local authorities, really, it didn't get there in the first place in the local life. This injection, which came by raising the revenue base, was intended to provide assistance for existing tasks, including the provision of social services. That's quite a lot of money, and now it's starting to have an impact. There will also be the necessary investments, including in the social field. It all goes with a little reference. But something like that is a priority. I can't talk about the exact amounts right now, but I guess we're going to have to negotiate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U87	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U88	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! I'm asking about healthcare. A recent OECD report shows that Estonia is one of the first steps forward in terms of the availability of healthcare services. This percentage is more than 15 times higher than the EU average. In other words, access to both primary and specialised care is unfortunately poor. In particular, the growing problem in rural areas is due to the lack of doctors and nurses. Have you and the Minister of Social Affairs sought solutions to this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U89	Thank you. That's another pertinent question. We've seen these problems. Unfortunately, even in rural areas, this problem is getting worse, it is simply very difficult to find family doctors who would go there, take a list and work there. The replacement system isn't exactly what we mean by a family doctor. Well, we're gonna have to make an effort. Well, you don't have to invent a bicycle. It doesn't exactly help to run a hard-on, money has to be used efficiently. I have once studied Finnish practice a little. There is a second system of almost all health care in the hands of municipalities, even the university clinics are funded by municipalities from their income base. As far as the primary level is concerned, the distance is bigger and the regions are even more distant, but Finland has been very heavily engaged in regional policy, and often this financial thing is still working. There too, municipalities are struggling to find family doctors. For example, in Lapland, a family doctor often pays three times more than in Helsinki. It's as simple as that. If we want to secure our system, I'm not saying that we have to pay three times more in Estonia, fortunately we have less distances, then we have to wonder if this can be done with some kind of financial injection, by reviewing the size of the list. Consideration should be given to options that have already been mentioned, perhaps giving the right to list a county hospital, for example. The municipality has the right to do so, but rural governments often simply do not go beyond this competence. I think this question will arise. I know that, given the existence of the problem, the Association of Doctors made an interesting proposal: the Minister of Public Administration could participate in wage negotiations on the remuneration of doctors and nurses. I'll consider it. Since this is a regional problem, as in other areas, where regional policy still stands, I do not mind. I'm happy to help if there's any way I can find solutions to the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U90	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U91	Next is question No 9, which is presented by Heidy Purga, and which is answered by the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This issue was already addressed by a good colleague, Mrs Sikku, but the angle of approach to my question is somewhat different. On the radio show 'Let's talk about the thing that was on 19 January, you and Martin Helme took the campaign of the Ministry of Social Affairs to deal with 'Everything is different but just as many people'. I'll bring up some of the quotes you said about this debate on the campaign. You said this: 'I have absolutely no doubt that it has been done on purpose. It's still spitting in our face and, frankly, we still have a very deep thorn in it. We have actually made it clear that we cannot accept this. If they say that our rhetoric will come to their limits at some point, I say that we will be bordered at some point if such campaigns continue. ' My question is: what position did you exactly represent in doing so, and what are your plans as a member of the government for the future, in view of what has been said?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U93	Thank you. The position was very clear: we represented the position of our constituents and our party. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U94	Heidy Purga, more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Mart Helme! Don't you think people with disabilities, people with other skin tones, homosexual people and otherwise different people are just as many people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U96	I have to admit, questions are a little hard to understand. I would like to make a request to the Board of the Riigikogu and to the Chancellery that a small speaker be installed here. This echo and sometimes bad dictation, not in this case, and in some cases the silent voice really is not always very clear. I realized now that the question is whether we do not consider everyone equal. We consider all people equal. We know that both the laws of the Estonian state and international laws guarantee human rights and civil rights to all people. All laws exist in Estonia. We do not think that there should be any kind of campaign, just as we talked about on our show, highlighting some groups of people and trying to present these people as unhappy. In this case, Mr Helme also touched on believers who are, as if, some freaks who are not treated equally in society. It is deeply offensive to believers that they are somehow placed in a category of retards, for whom they must speak this way: forgive them for being like them, and treat them equally with nonbelievers. I hope that you will understand intellectually when analysing things that such campaigns are insulting and humiliating to certain people and should not be carried out in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U97	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U98	Thank you, Minister. Could you be more specific about exactly who's upsetting you with this campaign? You've talked repeatedly about irritation, sensitivity, sensitivity, and now you're talking about freaks. If you look at who is being treated as their group of people in this campaign, I think that this issue is justified. Tell me who you think is retarded and how it has to do with this campaign.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U99	Well, this whole campaign was born of twisted thinking. There's a section where some kid of foreign origin gets thrown out of a wardrobe or some place, and that's particularly deplorable. But let's imagine an ordinary Estonian boy gets expelled. Is that okay? This is where the whole philosophical approach is distorted. It is not appropriate for us that this distorted philosophy has been massively presented to us for public money on the Internet, on TV, on radio and elsewhere, in a literal sense. We're not okay with this. We are not suited to such a distorted society. I think that we, as citizens and politicians, have every right to this approach. We are also right to present our point of view. However, I do not think that this should receive much attention in this Chamber, because it is a self-expression from the political programme and positions of one party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U100	Thank you! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U101	We have reached question 10. The performer is Katri Raik and the respondent is Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U102	Good President! Good minister! We share your concerns about the future of Ida-Viru County and I would like to quote at the beginning of my question two points from the proposal for a regulation establishing a fair transition fund. Point 10 refers to the measure and the types of investment for which it can be used. Quote: '... support should be linked to the phasing-out of the activities concerned and the corresponding reduction of employment levels', i.e. the oil shale sector, should be summed up. On the other hand, Article 6 says: "... the relevant territorial plan for a fair transition (Ida-Viru County, where we could use the money from the Fair Transition Fund. (k) is consistent with the national energy and climate plan of the Member State concerned'. Perhaps Ida-Viru County needs a plan that is not currently known to exist. The schedule is quite demanding. How and under whose direction is this plan to be developed? I would also like to point out that there are not 100,000 people involved in the oil shale sector, as Mr Helme said recently, but 40,000 people together with family members. But it's still a very large number of people. I would also like to stress that we are not talking about 125 million, but if we sum up all the pillars of a fair transition, which is three, with loans we can talk about 1.8 billion. Well, the world of numbers, as we know, is complicated. But my direct question is: who is responsible, who is doing the relevant Ida-Virumaa plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U103	Thank you for your question. In itself, all climate policy and regional development, economic development, business development and environmental development concern different ministers and ministries. I really feel a special responsibility, perhaps because I've been talking about this for years. I don't really want to go down in history with what I'm saying right now, but I think one mistake has been made years ago with the adoption of the Ida-Viru County Action Plan, to which various ministries must contribute, so it has been looked at and taken into account that the oil shale sector was once declining, it was known and is now known, but because of climate policy decisions, it has all arrived much faster. This example of carbon trading clearly exists where oil shale electricity is no longer competitive. Honestly, I don't think anyone thought it was going so fast. But if you look at the broader background, there will be green investments, etc. The Ida-Viru County Action Plan, which we have only recently extended in the government office, includes activities aimed at job diversification, business modernisation and labour market training. We also know that more is being invested in Ida-Virumaa, for example, the infrastructure of industrial parks was supported there with 20 million, or one third, because it is 60 million across Estonia. I will also bring transit routes, for example. So there's also prioritisation. Has it been done enough? I don't think so. I think it should have been done sooner and more, so that we do not face this problem again, which we read in the paper, that a whole bunch of people are about to become unemployed. After all, we have done something, for example, about 600 jobs have been created in industrial parks over four years. How much of the energy sector and oil shale industry have been liberated? Well, maybe a little more. So we're in business. About the Fair Transfer Fund, I hope you keep asking, so I can answer more. I guess that's the original proposal. Yes, I have also pointed out that it is not only 125 million. Other instruments may also be aimed at developing other forms of energy, which have been discussed, though the carriage of cables to windmills, etc., which also affect other areas of Estonia. But 125 million, plus the addition of the other Structural Funds, plus my own contribution, on the basis of the initial proposal, is that the decision being taken, I don't know, is a pretty strong injection. We've begun these activities. There is also a special programme in Ida-Virumaa, with which we support technological development, teach companies, support industrial investment with a higher salary, not even with an average salary, start-ups, etc. So there is such diversification, as well as image design and cultural events. Now we will probably have the opportunity to contribute even more and to bring new measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U104	Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U105	Thank you for your answer. I would like to draw attention once again to Article 6 (1). I understand you don't have it handy here, but I do. It says very clearly that we need a territorial plan for a fair transition. However, according to my better understanding, we need a new, clear-cut document. And the question I am clarifying relates to how local people are involved. We know that leaving Ida-Viru County every year will rather increase. People are looking for work in Tallinn because they understand that the oil shale sector is shrinking. Smarter ones leave now. Some have bigger loans and bigger cars. What is the plan for explaining the right transition to people? This must be done, as we both know well, in Estonian and Russian. The confusion and absence are very great, but it is certainly not in the interests of the Estonian state or anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U106	Yeah, I'm going to be a little more specific. One of the conditions is definitely that energy from fossil fuels must be released during a transitional period. No one can tell what exactly this transition period is, it has not been written out anywhere. How quickly do we need to reduce electricity production from oil shale? I don't know, those conditions aren't mentioned anywhere. Yes, the general principle and direction are in place. It's sometimes drawn like a ton of oil when talking about oil shale, but maybe it's still one of the possibilities of a transitional period. I do not know in what extent, with which investments, it has not been decided by anyone. It takes a lot more information. As far as the fair transition plan is concerned, I think that many things need to be added to it. But the actions we have done have been agreed on in a broad sense. Also, the activities of the Ida-Virumaa programme were not able to do everything we wanted, but what we did, we chose on the basis of local proposals. I'm sure we will. There has been no process in my administration in which I would not have involved the region, municipalities and entrepreneurs in a broad way. I go there a lot, and I'm very familiar with things. So I'm sure we will, and this programme will have to be drawn up, but the proposal didn't come until last week. We haven't gotten everything yet. Surely we also want to know more about the conditions, so we can draw up a programme. Yes, it is likely to be the case in the near future that I will be indebted to the answer at exactly when, but we need more information about this fund. There must also be agreements at national level, at ECOFIN level. This is initially the European Commission's proposal, which does not mean that it will be agreed in exactly that way. There is still much debate, because some countries are concerned that this will reduce the volume of other funds quite seriously. So there's no deal yet. Yes, in this direction it will certainly come, I am absolutely convinced it will, and it will be very good. We can make a transition to this region, which otherwise would have gone quietly anyway, with bad consequences, in such a way as to minimise the negative effects and amplify the positive effects. I think it's an opportunity. I have always said that Ida-Virumaa is potential, an opportunity, not a problem, and I stress that again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U107	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U108	Thank you. I'm pushing for your last response and the fact that the government doesn't have information on the possible time of exiting fossil fuels, for example, and their trends. It is known that the OECD, the World Bank, the IMF, the World Economic Forum, the European Energy Agency and a number of other high-level research institutions have been carrying out analyses in this regard for years. They're all there. My question is whether they have not been introduced to the government. Or how can it be that you still say that this information doesn't exist? This is fully available information and this information should certainly be in the government as well. And finally, just one comment. I very much agree that there is no reason for this leap to be made in Ida-Virumaa, but also in Estonia as a whole, to be described as a huge drama. This is an insanely large opportunity for Estonia, with which we can take our country back to a whole new level, just as we once did with the digital state. It's a really big opportunity if we can use it and we can't let it slip out of our fingers again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U109	Yes, thank you for the references. Of course, these scenarios have been played out and the way in which it is not sustainable to produce energy from fossil fuels has been said by various organisations, I concede. But I spoke earlier about the Fair Transfer Fund, which is a proposal from the European Commission. It's just the price of CO2 and all this is forcing us to go that way, the whole market is going that way. However, we do not know exactly the conditions of the European Commission. It is likely that negotiations will be about how much and for how long we will have to reduce fossil fuel. That's the main thing. And then, of course, we also need to think rationally and logically about the measures that we are putting in place there. We create new jobs, we really do, but too modestly, we could do better and more. With all of this, we will balance this other process. We have to decide how much resources to put in and what activities to do. Yes, I certainly think that one of the pressures that may be positive for Ida-Virumaa is the possibility of receiving quite serious support in the form of loans, which is what the European Commission is talking about when it comes to implementing new entrepreneurial technologies. Then we could exactly get there in the area, I don't know what that is, maybe the start-up area, even though there doesn't have to be all start-ups, to apply new technology-based and forward-looking entrepreneurship. This opportunity is entirely there. We have human resources there, and we can also use a large resource to retrain and train these people, as far as I know, educational resources are also available. This is a very big opportunity, and we're definitely trying to make the most of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U110	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U111	The next question is question 11 by Jüri Jaanson, which is answered by the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U112	Thank you. Honourable Minister of the Interior in his duties as Prime Minister. Several appeals have recently been submitted to the government on the subject of the reform of the pharmacy, and the date of entry into force of the reform is rapidly approaching, with no clear answers so far. The reform introduced a five-year transition period, of which only a few weeks remain to date. This means that there should be clarity about changes to the pharmaceutical law long ago in the house and the parties should be involved in preparing for the reform. Instead, at the end of last year, the coalition parties submitted their draft to reverse the reforms and, after voting on it, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas said that this vote should also be very much guided. On the other hand, on the executive agenda of the 16 January session of the Government of the Republic, the draft medicine law 127 is not supported on the grounds that the government will shortly discuss the proposals submitted by the Ministry itself to amend the medicine law, including proposals to extend the rights of hospital pharmacies. Here again, the question: what are the government's plans for painless enforcement of the reform of the pharmacy and when will the government discuss their plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U113	Thank you. Basically, you already answered: in the near future. We'll discuss it soon. Indeed, we recognise that there is currently no consensus on this in the government. How do we proceed? There is one possible development plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs, one draft which provides for a gradual transition with extensions. Will it be supported? At the moment, I can't say I do, but I can't say I can't. We must reach a clear position on this in the government at a time nearer, as you have even said. Of course, an agreement must also be found in the Riigikogu, or not, which will be formalised in the Chamber at the final vote if necessary, a corresponding bill will be submitted. I would say that the situation is somewhat unclear now, but clarity will soon come. As Chairman of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I can say that we are not satisfied with this situation. As spectators, we cannot agree that from the 2nd or 3rd of April these days of the week will fall exactly there, I do not know from the head that there may potentially be a situation where hundreds of pharmacies will be shut down across Estonia, especially in rural areas. We can't accept that. That is why we have a great interest in the government in ultimately reaching consensus on this issue in order to take joint steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U114	Jüri Jaanson, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U115	Honourable Minister of the Interior! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are two months left before the reform enters into force, of which there are only seven working weeks in the Riigikogu. So if any changes should go through the Riigikogu, time is actually very critical. After all, there have been five years of transition. The fact that now, two months before the reform is implemented, the government does not have a position or a substantive agenda is in fact irresponsible and could be said to be unforgivable to potential people in need. The situation is, after all, that market participants are on the opposite fronts at the end of the last few weeks before the reform. However, in quite a number of places, around 30 places across the country may actually happen in such a situation that the pharmacy service is not available at all after the reform has entered into force or is very poorly available. So, in my opinion, you should be able to say in very specific terms these dates, at least the time of the government meeting or some sort of action plan, which will then be followed. As I said, there are only seven working weeks in the Riigikogu that go very, very fast.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U116	Thank you. Yeah, I totally agree with your position. This morning, we looked at the calendar with the leaders of the group and a few members, and we crucified the dates when something could or should happen. We have an exact timetable, in front of the eye, and we're counting on it. Like you, we are worried that pharmacies may go to jail, and this is a situation we cannot accept when sitting on our hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U117	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have also expressed your concern, in answering the questions, that pharmacies may go to prison, which must be closed because they do not comply with the law. But, as far as I know, Tanel Kiik has made proposals both to the public and to you in the coalition concerning the phase shift and which could and should mitigate this risk, depending on the region in which it is possible to compensate for the closure of pharmacies or their temporary closure and finding temporary solutions until such time as the pharmacists should be able to reopen it. That should be the point of the current law. The first part of my question is: why has the coalition not approved this idea? Secondly, the whole debate has raised the question that pharmacists could be more involved in content because pharmacists have their own professional and professional ethic, education and education at school. They are now compared and contrasted in society with possible chain pharmacies. How do you think the sudden closure of chain pharmacies contributed to the exclusion or denial of such an image?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U119	I have to admit that I have not been a representative of our party in the Group on Pharmacy Reform, so many nuances and their links and backgrounds are not very clear to me. But I want to stress once again that our party is clear: we cannot accept that pharmacies can go mass across Estonia, especially in rural areas. And if we do not reach an agreement with coalition partners, we will have to decide how our party will take further steps in this situation. I have no further comment now, because I hope that we will be able to find a compromise solution with our coalition partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U120	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U121	The next question, No 12, will be asked by Urve Tiidus and will be answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U122	Thank you, Minister. You have answered regional issues several times today, but I have more questions. Local authorities have an important financial, organisational and also spiritual role to play in order to level out regional disparities. The law divides the responsibilities and responsibilities of the state and local government, according to which budgetary resources are allocated. You have quite specifically said that you want to remove these labels from the money that the government has to take out from the government with all kinds of labels. In essence, this means increasing the autonomy of the local government. Can you give a specific example to illustrate this desire? Is there any example that would reduce regional disparities by greater autonomy for the municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U123	Thank you! A very topical question. I'm gonna take this opportunity to tell you that I just ran over the smartphone for a second and see if there's any news. No, it's not. Well, the press is attracted to more scandalous subjects these days. But today we've announced the picking of regional strawberries. For your information and suggestions too: the regional strawberry prize will be awarded to good people, organisations, villages, local authorities, who are in the rural area, this affects a very large region, not just the good deeds of village life, starting new initiatives, offering jobs, etc. Such a picking. The weather is like maybe you can pick some real strawberries, but this time it's regional. It's seven years. I'm looking at Siimu here. He's done the same thing. At the end of February, these prizes will be served, so I expect you to propose. As far as investments are concerned, yes, we would like to see the role of the municipality as a more developer in the county. As I have said, we have supported municipalities with both financial and other resources a little. As far as taking down labels is concerned, I have been going on this subject for quite a long time, at least a few years, even when I was in the ministerial position last time. We've come to transitions in certain things. For example, replacement care, or orphanages, which were funded through rural governments, has now gone to municipalities. It is now through the Support Fund, but I believe that this money will reach the revenue base in the near future. Perhaps each municipality can then organise this service itself and decide so that it is not prescribed very strict rules. We have transferred smaller amounts of environmental management to the revenue base. Support for schools for children with special educational needs, which have gone to municipalities, has moved to the Fund. There's a lot of subjects. We are faced with one very difficult choice that has initially not found an agreement, namely that we would like to remove the labels from education support. There are, however, a number of other issues, such as teachers who do not want to give up negotiating minimum wages with the state and the ministry. In fact, we have also discussed this issue at length with the Association of Municipalities. If it ever comes, it is likely that the negotiator should be the municipality. However, the municipality and the state must agree on a long-term financing perspective. I would certainly like to move faster with these things if it succeeds, but the subject is still up, we are negotiating with the local government union and with the ministries as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U124	Thank you. It is already time for Urve Tiidus to ask a more specific question in two sentences and for the Minister to answer in two sentences, the time is up. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. In a previous reply, you mentioned that you took one into the office, I understand, the draft material, which then concerns such a matter as guaranteeing companies a loan and guaranteeing housing loans to people in remote regions. What does it mean to send it to the office? At what time could this information take a more specific form?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U126	Thank you for your question. I don't think I've told you I've sent you. It's on. Yesterday I met MES and KredEx and several ministers. We've done some pretty serious work. It should be February. And then the measures will become public.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U127	Thank you. I thank all the questioners and thank the ministers for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U128	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the second working week Wednesday session of the third plenary session. For starters, I'll take the manager's break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U129	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's get back to today's trial. The members of the Riigikogu now have the opportunity to hand over drafts and questions. Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U130	Honourable Vice-Chairman, President-in-Office! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It is always good to use the words of wise people and build on them. Winston Churchill has said in his day that the most important asset in one country, the most expensive asset, is a healthy person. There is no doubt that we must agree to this. However, as we look at the OECD's recent health report, we are saddened to note that Estonia is in a very poor position with its people's health records, which means that the situation is very bad. We have one of the highest mortality rates in chronic diseases, those diseases that we can cure and prevent death. We have one of the highest indicators in terms of inability to receive medical services, both at primary level and in terms of specialised medical care: almost 12% and more people are left without help. Regrettably, this situation has become particularly critical at the primary level of access to assistance from family doctors. The report emphasises that the situation is particularly critical in rural areas. Therefore, 13 members of the Riigikogu submit an inquiry to the Minister of Social Affairs about how to proceed in this situation, so that the most expensive property in Estonia is a healthy person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U131	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. The management board of the Riigikogu deals with the submitted inquiry in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Incoming check, please! 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U132	The first item is the first reading of the draft National Defence Act 112 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm going to ask the Minister of Justice Raivo Aegis as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of Justice has prepared a new draft National Defence Act. It has been developed within the framework of the National Defence Legal Review, with various ministries, relevant authorities and national defence experts working together for four years. The main objective of the draft is to update national defence standards in order to ensure our preparedness and a rapid and flexible response to modern security threats. The draft is based on the principle that the state must have the means to improve the preparedness of institutions and persons for crisis situations and to implement different governance arrangements and all measures limiting fundamental rights and freedoms under the rule of law. It is important to ensure that democratic regimes are maintained in all circumstances and that there is a rapid return to the peace-time regime. The draft emphasises, firstly, that one of the objectives of national defence is to ensure the safety of the population alongside other objectives. The aim of ensuring the security of the population is to protect people, the environment and property as effectively as possible during various human and natural-induced emergencies and defence situations that threaten the existence of the country. Secondly, coping with events threatening Estonia's independence, independence, constitutional order or the safety of the population requires the contribution of each member of society. The draft has been drawn up on the basis of a broad concept of national defence, which is a fundamental principle of Estonian national defence. According to the broad concept of national defence, the state, local authorities, the private sector, defence industry, the community and individuals contribute to national defence in order to cope with possible non-military and military security threats. Thirdly, defence is a common matter for all of us, which is why the draft emphasises that all society and any resources and resources will be involved in the defence of the state, if necessary. Fourthly, it is just as important that each party should know and comply in time with its national defence obligations and support other bodies in achieving a common goal. It is for this reason that the draft lays down the principle of continuity of tasks, according to which each institution and every person must, as a general rule, continue to carry out their current tasks even during situations which threaten national security. In addition, national defence tasks are assigned to the authorities of the executive state, private legal entities providing vital services, such as electricity, communications, etc., as well as to some legal persons governed by public law, such as ERR, Eesti Pank, Financial Supervision Authority, Health Insurance Fund, Unemployment Insurance Fund and Bar Association. National defence tasks are tasks that institutions and persons must be prepared to perform in order to contribute to the successful resolution of the defence situation and the functioning of society. Fifthly, the national defence tasks of local authorities will be clarified and supplemented. Local authorities are expected to contribute to large-scale evacuation during the protection situation, to the provision of vital services such as district heating and water supply, sanitation, local road driving and social welfare tasks such as unavoidable social assistance and welfare services. Sixthly, according to the draft, the concept of defence situation is introduced in order to better define the situation in which the Riigikogu may need to declare the state of emergency or martial law. The concept of a defence situation fills the gap in the current law, because there is no term that would mark, alongside law enforcement events and emergencies, situations where the vitality of the people and the durability of the state and the continuity of our constitutional order are at risk. The introduction of the concept of defence situation will give up levels of defence readiness at national level in order to avoid a system of duplicative emergency situations, with institutions, as is currently the case, setting up their own preparedness systems for better performance of their tasks. The concept of a defence situation provides a framework allowing national defence planning to be based on the same bases for the prevention, preparation and response to threats to national security and constitutional order. A separate definition of the protection situation creates a clear link between the situation and the special arrangements for resolving it, as has been the case in the case of emergencies. The defence situation shall not be declared separately. The decision on the protection situation will be taken by the government. In order to resolve the defence situation, the Riigikogu may declare emergency or martial law in accordance with the Constitution. Seventhly, the draft harmonises the procedures for preparing for both military and non-military crises. Coordination activities related to preparation for crises will be concentrated with the Government of the Republic as a whole. In addition to developing and planning national defence and coordinating defence-related activities, the State Chancellery will also develop and coordinate civilian crisis developments. Eighthly, resolving the defence situation requires smooth cooperation between different institutions and persons and clear governance arrangements. The draft defines a clear national governance structure to address the defence situation, subordinates the defence situation to a specific level of decision-making, avoids double competences, and allows for swift internal management tasks, reallocation and mobilisation of resources. The management of the safeguard situation has been reduced to the lowest possible level according to the draft in order to ensure that internal administrative cooperation functions without hindrance. The key role of the Prime Minister in situations relating to national security shall not be changed. The Prime Minister remains responsible for managing the defence situation at strategic level, including during the state of emergency and martial law, in order to ensure the unity and coordination of the Government of the Republic in the resolution of the defence situation. The Government of the Republic shall designate an authority to resolve the defence situation for the immediate management of the defence situation at the operational level. The Government of the Republic shall decide on matters relating to the use of state resources and the suspension and repeal of legislative acts, in addition to the usual questions. The draft does not change the competences and role of the President of the Republic. The ninth, the need for a more intensive violation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals is inevitable in order to address the protection situation. The draft states the means to be used in a defence situation, indicating who, when and how can intervene in the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. In doing so, a distinction is made between measures which may be used only during emergencies and martial law, measures which may already be used during peacetimes. The draft emphasises that, regardless of the circumstances, a proportionate balance must be maintained between the scale and intensity of the interference and the weight of the target involved. By the tenth, remedying the defence situation or protecting public order, it may be necessary for the State to take up or expropriate property belonging to the civil sector, such as vehicles, generators, etc., or to impose one-off duties on persons and involve them in law enforcement. The draft amends the regulation of state-defence requisitions in a comprehensive manner. The amendments provide an opportunity to use civilian resources in a more coordinated way to ensure primary independent defence capabilities and acceptance of allies, to support their presence and to carry out national defence tasks. In addition, it shall be ensured that any vehicle belonging to a person is used by the police, the Rescue Board or any other law enforcement body under the same conditions and in accordance with the same procedure. It is important that this is a situation where the state itself cannot use other resources. As a novelty, uniform bases are laid down for the payment of fair compensation for the use of civil resources. The draft provides a legal framework for the use of people and resources in defence in the most appropriate way. For the eleventh, or summary. The draft harmonises national defence regulations, brings together national military protection and other national security rules in as few logically systematized legislation as possible. The Bill combines and updates the National Defence Act, the Emergency Act and the National Defence Penalty Act as separate laws. The draft resolves the inconsistencies arising from the joint implementation of the current National Defence Act, the Emergency Act and the Law on Law Enforcement and eliminates the provisions of the current law that are duplicated. The draft creates prerequisites for better coping with various possible military and non-military crisis situations. The law is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U134	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As you said, the new law creates a new concept of 'defence situation', which actually gives the Government of the Republic a great deal of power. In essence, bypassing Parliament, the government can at any moment declare a defence situation. I understand why this is being done, because indeed in today's world, crises can develop very unexpectedly and quickly. But it's also a very high risk. We can have access to the government by political parties who want to suffocate the democratic regime in the country and can start using the defence situation to suppress the opposition. When you say that there is no risk, I recall the history of Estonia: Konstantin Päts did this at the beginning of the silent era to stifle the democratic opposition. Mr Minister, how is it ensured that these fears are unfounded today and that the government cannot abuse the defence situation against democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U136	Thank you. First of all, as I have already explained, the protection situation is actually not announced separately. The government is fixing the emergence of a defence situation: now we are in a situation where a defence situation has arisen. There are two options for resolving the defence situation. The safeguard situation can also be resolved without declaring a state of emergency or martial law, but in general two measures are envisaged to resolve it, namely declaring an emergency situation or declaring a martial law. Emergency situations can be declared when the constitutional order or territorial integrity of the State is in jeopardy. The state of war is when it is already a direct military aggression against the Republic of Estonia. The declaration of these so-called conditions no longer falls within the competence of the Government of the Republic; it is still the competence of the Riigikogu. And the declaration of martial law, when it comes to aggression, is the responsibility of the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U137	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U138	Thank you. I will continue with the same subject. The state of defence, and everything about the order of war, it's written here in the bill. However, the emergence of a safeguard situation gives the government the opportunity, according to this draft, to restrict fundamental rights and freedoms of people. And that does not require the consent of the Riigikogu. We read this in § 3, which says that it is not only meant to endanger the independence and independence of the Estonian state but also to threaten the way in which the entire society is organised. What are these situations that threaten the whole social system? And how do you ensure that the new law does not allow for the situation that arose in 1934 as Jaak Juske referred to when opposition forces were silenced in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U139	The most critical situations of the defence situation are, first, the state of emergency when the constitutional order or territorial integrity of the State is threatened and, second, when the need for declaration of the military situation has arisen. We are not talking about a political struggle; we are talking about the preservation of the constitutional order and territorial integrity of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U140	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U141	Thank you. Good Minister of Justice, thank you, of course, for this presentation. But given the volume of the bill and the impact on our legal order, I honestly would have expected a little more precise description. You have only spoken about the new concept that should come into Estonian law, but I am still reminding you of the Constitution. § 126 of the Constitution speaks of the fact that we have a law on the national defence of peacetime and a law on the national defence of wartime. The Constitution does not provide for one national defence law to be honest. Similarly, the Constitution sets out both the state of emergency and the martial law, to which you referred in your report. Maybe you'll explain where there are still gaps in the current law in the case of emergency, emergency, emergency and martial law that we need to create a new concept relating to the level of government? And maybe you can also touch the pace of the procedure and tell me what the government's plan is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U142	When the previous National Defence Act was adopted, it was considered that a number of shortcomings remained unresolved there. And after that, it was decided immediately that an expanded review would be required in a wide-ranging format for national defence. And for this purpose, a panel of specialists was set up to carry out this review in four years. The goal was precisely that, in real life, there would be, or hypothetically, possible conflicts and inconsistencies would be eliminated in order to fill these gaps by means of a new law. To this end, an analysis was carried out, which then needs to be done. That is why the same draft national defence law was born. Was the second part of the question about the timetable? [[Hanno Pevkur explains something about the place.]] Once again, the protection situation if this is not the case. It's a fixed situation. Let's say there's some kind of event, there may be an emergency, it's escalating, and as a result of the escalation, we get to the point that there's a defense situation. And in order to resolve the defence situation, as I said, there are two measures: either to declare a state of emergency or to declare martial law. As regards the timetable, as I said, the date of entry into force is scheduled for 1 January 2021. How the procedure moves forward is in the hands of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U143	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, One might ask, "This is a matter of national defence law, and why do you report it?" Is that a reference to the importance of internal security in this bill? But my question has come from previous questions. You referred to the fact that the President's terms of reference have not been reduced. I ask this question: has Parliament's competences been changed and reduced and, if so, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U145	Thank you. Why me? Because the Ministry of Justice was the director of the audit. And as a result of the revision, there are also two drafts to be discussed as the next items on the agenda, which are very clearly concerned with the justice system. They concern the Penal Code, criminal proceedings as well as judicial activities. So much to explain. Now, out of the President's jurisdiction: I have pointed out here that the President's competence will not be reduced. I also understand that Parliament's competences are not reduced, but it is clearly indicated that the role of the Prime Minister and the role of the State Chancellery will change, it will be defined, it will be central to resolving defence situations. The Prime Minister's role is to manage and appoint the strategic level of who, which ministry or other authority is responsible for resolving a particular situation as an institution. Similarly, the role of the State Chancellery has been clarified in this sense. The State Chancellery is obliged to coordinate the development of the necessary development plans and strategies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U146	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to repeat a few of the previous questions, no offense! The explanatory memorandum clarifies the need to introduce the concept of protection. Very well explained, but still. I'm gonna read it out here a little bit. It says here that the protection situation is a new concept alongside the concept of an emergency. It appears that there is currently a gap in the current law: there is no term that would mark situations where people's vitality and the durability of the state and the continuity of constitutional order are at risk. You said that this deficit was referred to by the audit. That's the kind of thing I'm asking. Can you please give an example of a protective situation where people's vitality and the duration of the state are at risk? I'd like to figure out a way to compare all these situations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U148	Well, let's look at the same gravity I was referring to here earlier. Let's start with the event: there's been an event that could threaten public order. Breaches of public order are serious events that may disturb everyday life, but they do not pose any particular, serious risks. The next level is an emergency. Situations such as natural disasters, disasters, disruption of vital services, spread of infectious diseases, etc., qualify as emergencies. These are very serious situations, but there are no threats to the existence of the state. However, there may also be existential threats from the state's point of view, I pointed out before that this could be a threat to territorial integrity or constitutional order, or the next step, already a threat of military aggression. To resolve them, this new concept has now been introduced: the protection situation. In this sense, a very clear distinction can be made between these different stages and different levels of difficulty. If you ask what kind of situation this may be, it may be primarily due to today's dangers: hybrid threats, hybrid war, possible manifestations of separatism. As we have seen, for example, in the context of Ukraine, a 'fifth column', these green men, etc., may be formed internally. It is already very clear from the context of the emergency, but it has not been very clear that it is necessary to declare martial law. Then it may be necessary to declare an emergency situation so that separate measures can be taken to eliminate these risks, to eliminate these risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U149	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U150	Thank you. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft act, I read that the Prime Minister, as head of the defence situation, is given the right to give binding orders to ministers, also on issues where the government has not collectively taken any position or made a decision. I would ask for this to be clarified with such a practical example. Suppose, for example, that Prime Minister Ratas is abroad and because of the defence situation, he cannot return to Estonia and his duties are carried out by the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, who is in charge of the Prime Minister. I understand that, under this draft, Mart Helm, who is in the position of Prime Minister, is given the right to give orders to ministers without being collectively discussed and held by the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U151	Why is the Prime Minister given the role of such a central leader on a strategic level? You have just pointed out that the government, in a collegial way, has not been able to make decisions in such a case. But these are decisions that need to be made operationally. There's an operational need to solve a matter, give some order, some authority. There is no way that every time a government meeting is called. That is why, to a certain extent, the Prime Minister has been given the powers of strategic leader so that he can give direct orders. And regardless of whether he is the Prime Minister or the person performing the Prime Minister's duties, these powers will in any case exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U152	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U153	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, it must be noted that good work has been done on the draft. But there are many things in every bill that, like the billbox, raise questions. And some of them I'd like to say right here. For example, it has been said that the President of the Republic is declaring martial law and mobilisation. The question arises: who will replace him, if necessary, if he is, for example, in Antarctica, like ours now or in some other remote location, or is not, say, operational? That's one question. The definition of mobilisation in paragraph 16 is too general and less specific. That should be specified. We had this officially confirmed once, I don't know where it's been, I mean our country. And the title of § 21 is 'Defendance Manager's authority in times of defence'. Who is this leader is not understood. Shouldn't we be more specific about whether it's the Prime Minister or someone else? During President Ilves' time, the Constitution was amended and the administration of national defence went to the government. There are other questions, but time is what it is. What are the solutions, what do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U154	Thank you. The procedure for replacing the President is very clear in the Constitution. If there is no President or if he is unable to perform his duties, the President of the Riigikogu shall perform the duties of President. In the case of the Head of Defence, I have already indicated that the role of the head of the strategic level is for the Prime Minister and for the resolution of a specific event, either by a member of the government or by an institution or by an authority responsible for resolving that particular event or situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U155	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U156	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! First of all, I would quickly defend President Päts, who was protecting them in his time. In fact, the state of defence existed at the time before Päts established it in 1934. Secondly, at that time the consent of the Riigikogu was also required. This is unlike the protective situation proposed today, which no longer requires the consent of the Riigikogu. I'd like to come back to the same thing. In fact, we are creating or still trying to create a new legal institute in Estonian law. These special situations, the state of play and the state of war, stem from the Constitution and enable constitutional rights to be restricted. Now, on the one hand, it is said that this new protection situation is not a special situation because these situations are listed in the Constitution, while it allows the constitutional rights to be limited by decision of the Government, without the Riigikogu. It's still a new thing. Yeah, well, there aren't enough situations, but that's a problem. And one of the foundations is the threat to the whole social system, although there is no such legal term in Estonian law. I certainly have a proposal to rethink this wording, and if it is not changed, it should be clearly written out what is the way in which society is organised.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U157	I would like to emphasise once again that the protection situation, if any, is not announced separately by any legislation. It will be fixed, but it will not be announced. It is stated that there has been a situation where we are in a protective situation, and then either emergency or martial law may be declared. These are already decisions taken in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U158	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U159	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The world is changing rapidly, and I understand that the functioning and independence of the country may also be threatened by situations where tanks and weapons are not involved. We're talking about information operations, we're talking about shutting down some vital networks or breaking into them. There are certainly many of these dangers, and this has probably been the basis for describing such a protection situation. All these questions in this Chamber reflect that. Would you please describe the situations in which Estonia needs to establish a protection situation? Should some criteria be set, and has the government discussed what all of this means: in what situations would it be necessary to react in this way and in what other ways? In order to take certain fears down, I also ask that if the pharmacies go to jail on 1 April, it is a safeguard situation. When Mart Helme walks through the TTÜ's campus and decides to declare a defence situation, is that an adequate response? Where are these criteria taken from which restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms are really allowed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U160	Thank you for your question. If the pharmacy chains no longer work or some pharmacies close their doors, this is not a safeguard situation. We may be dealing with an emergency in the worst case. For example, a disruption of vital services is going under, and if all pharmacies are closed, the delivery of vital services is expected to be interrupted. In this respect, I can reassure you that if a vital service is interrupted, we have had a natural disaster or an outbreak of an infectious disease, it is certainly not a protection situation where fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals can be severely restricted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U161	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U162	Mr. Minister! The National Defence Act is a broad law which, on certain occasions, determines social life very seriously and directs the behaviour of the entire state. Do you not think that this means that there should be a chain of command here, even though neither the President nor the Riigikogu have jurisdiction, I understand, will be humiliated? It should still be shown from the top down, which is the part of the President, which is part of the Riigikogu, which is part of someone else and, as Ants Laaneots says, who will replace whom at the time. In the National Defence Act, these things should be written down, not that lawyers have to look for competence after other laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U163	Thank you for your question. Well, by all means, you could make some sort of table or graph to the explanatory statement. But, in itself, I think it is quite understandable that the power to declare the state of emergency lies with the Riigikogu and that the power to declare the state of war lies with the President of the Republic when it comes to aggression.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U164	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U165	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I would ask more or less the same question that I asked in the Commission. On page 22 of the explanatory memorandum, there is a very beautiful illustration of how an event escalates from an emergency to a state of war. The Emergency Act says that an emergency, or civil crisis, will be resolved by an agency in this area. As we all know, solving the crisis requires certain skills-knowledge to behave and manage in a crisis situation. And since crises can escalate very quickly, this is also shown by the diagram that we have here, do you think that you should re-table the emergency law and review how management is set out there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U166	Definitely! In the explanatory memorandum, there is such a very simplified schedule, where the line rises smoothly, or the situation escalates. Actually, it could be zigzag-like roller coaster, wouldn't it? For a moment, events can escalate, and then things can calm down and escalate again. In the meantime, maybe the signs of emergency will disappear and then come again. As far as I can see, this panel of experts that conducted the National Defence Review has been looking at these interactions between the Emergency Act, the National Defence Act and other laws. And the existing gaps are being filled so that there are no inconsistencies and no overlays, no duplication.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U167	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U168	Austet President! Good minister! In answer to my first question, you said that if the government decides on this defence situation, the government will very soon turn to Parliament to establish either martial law or state of emergency. I hope you were mistaken. According to this bill, the government has no obligation to do so. In essence, the government can establish a defence situation for an indefinite period without recourse to the Riigikogu. Why does the government still want to limit the role of Parliament and obtain basically unlimited powers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U169	Once again, I come to the point that the protection situation is not announced by some separate act, by the decision that we are now in a defence situation. It's just that it's coming to the conclusion that we're now in a defensive situation. And in order to deal with this defence situation, it is necessary to decide on the next steps from which, at the top, the announcement of the state of emergency or the declaration of martial law is at the top. These are decisions that are clearly within the competence of the Riigikogu. It may also be possible to resolve the defence situation by other means, without having to declare an emergency situation or martial law. If, in some region of Estonia, somewhere in western Estonia, for example, an island wants to separate from the Republic of Estonia and there have been demonstrations, protests, speeches against the territorial integrity of the Republic of Estonia, then there is no need to declare the state of emergency immediately. This can also be resolved by other measures, with much less stringent measures. Clarification, persuasion, possibly measures implemented by special services, etc. It is not always necessary to declare a state of emergency or martial law in order to resolve a defence situation. And the defence situation, as such, is not specifically announced by any act. Neither does the emergency situation appear to be ruled out by a separate act. They'll announce a state of emergency. When the signs of an emergency have been detected, an emergency situation shall be declared if necessary. We already have a known concept of emergency. The emergency is caused by natural disasters, by some kind of disruption of vital services. There was no electricity in the Võru for several days, but it was not announced as an emergency situation, it was resolved by other measures, although the situation was very close to the emergency situation: vital service, the power supply was disrupted. This analogy also applies to the protection situation. There has been some situation that corresponds to some characteristics, but this situation is not declared by decision of the Riigikogu or by decision of the Government or by some regulation, it simply corresponds to some characteristics and the relevant measures are used to resolve the situation. They must, as I said, be proportionate and must not unduly violate the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. It's okay to hurt as much as it needs, no more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U170	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U171	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Am I right now to understand your explanation that the defence situation is not being declared; the government simply states that it now has the right to restrict citizens' rights? And the other part of the question is this: when the government has reached this conclusion, with no one perhaps even being informed, could there be a situation in which, by restricting rights, there would be an election coming up, but the defence situation would not allow elections to be held?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U172	That's a good question, to be honest. I do not know whether the revision paid attention to a possible situation in which elections cannot be held. The protection situation may certainly be national, but it may also occur in some regions or in some other restricted territory. If this is not national, I expect the country to function very clearly as is the case in peacetime: elections and all the other actions foreseen in the country during peacetime will be held. However, if, for example, martial law is declared, I believe that the conduct of the elections can indeed be very questionable and complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U173	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U174	Thank you. Well, it's getting messy. I recall one more piece of legislation in force than in the history of 'Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch': it was written in 1881 and written for 15 years, then it was adopted in the German Parliament and five more years were granted for entry into force. The whole process lasted for about 20 years and so far this law is completely adequate, of course, with certain changes. Now that you say that the defence situation will not be declared, how can you understand § 11, which says that the decision of the Government of the Republic to protect the state of defence and end it will take effect once it has been signed. Perhaps the Government of the Republic will decide that it is now in a state of defence. As regards the restriction of fundamental rights, the restriction of fundamental rights must always be open to challenge by people. But if you say that the defence situation is an internal conviction of the Government of the Republic, it is not disputed. Perhaps once again: please specify whether the protection situation will be declared and what happens next.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U175	Thank you for your question. A safeguard situation, as the situation is not declared separately, is not declared as an emergency situation or martial law. The fact that a protection situation has been established does not mean that it is declared nationwide or territorially anywhere. [[In the diner.]] Yeah, but it's not gonna be declared a defense situation. We're in... (Houd buzzing in the hall.) Well, right here, I imagine, there's a confusing terminological approach and maybe a variety of legal nuances. One thing is that some kind of legislation is issued to declare a state of affairs. As we have repeatedly spoken here, martial law and state of emergency are very clearly fixed by legislation. The Riigikogu announces this and this is an act adopted by the Riigikogu, which is made known to the public. The second situation is that the situation is fixed that certain conditions have arisen, but it is not fixed by a separate legal act.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U176	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U177	Thank you. I am listening here to this discussion about the state of defence, and I am increasingly beginning to see that this text is understood very differently. Which means the text is bad. And there are contradictions inside. If there is a decision, there is a decision as to whether or not he has been declared. The text is in Estonian, it needs to be understood exactly. But what I really want to ask is what Mr Pevkur asked as the first question. If the Constitution provides that there are two separate laws, the law of peace-time national defence and the law of war-time national defence, and now there is one law being made, then my logic, though, is not a lawyer, says that there is an immediate contradiction with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U178	So far, the panel of experts has not identified any conflict with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U179	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, § 54 of the Constitution states that if no other means are available, every Estonian citizen has the right to object to the violent change of constitutional order. How is this principle reflected in this draft? And I also ask what happens when the Government of the Republic decides not to fix the defense situation. For example, what if the events of 1940 are repeated, where the government is watching calmly, how foreign troops cross the border? In such a situation, how is the functioning of Estonian national defence ensured?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U181	Thank you. This draft law does not concern the own-initiative activities of individuals, but it does define that the performance of the national defence function is broad-based and wide-ranging, involving the state, local authorities, some public institutions and also citizens. The fact that every citizen of the Republic of Estonia has the right to oppose an aggressor on his own initiative is not the scope of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U182	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U183	Thank you. I think that the number and focus of questions clearly shows how important we consider the law of national defence to be. My question is from the same angle as my fellow Members have already asked about this safeguard situation. I read on page 10 of the explanatory memorandum, point 6: 'The draft gives the power to impose the obligation to carry identity documents, to limit communication services and to specify the restrictions on departure from Estonia, the secrecy of messages, home, the right to family or privacy, the activities of associations and foundations, and economic activities. " All this in a state of defense. You're saying there may be a defense situation that doesn't have to be announced, it's a little weird for me, but let's leave it. But how long can this safeguard situation last, which in principle gives the government unlimited powers to restrict constitutional rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U184	Thank you. The duration of protection depends on when the situation is resolved, the problem is resolved, there is no longer a threat to constitutional order, territorial integrity, and there is no longer a threat of military aggression. As regards the restriction of constitutional rights, there is a list of the instruments that can be used in defence situations to what extent the fundamental rights of individuals may be interfered with. There is also a distinction between measures which may be used only in the event of a declaration of martial or emergency. So it doesn't automatically expand like this, so when the situation of the defence situation has arisen, this whole ampluaa or this whole package will start automatically. In certain cases, so-called "higher-gravity" cases, a decision to declare a state of emergency or martial law still needs to be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U185	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U186	Thank you very much. I will try to ask this question diplomatically. I think that as an abstract principle, it could be that the Prime Minister has the right to give orders in defence situations so that he does not convene and discuss the entire government completely. But as Toots said, it's a theory, we come into practice. As a minister, a member of your government, would you feel comfortable, given the personal qualities and style of management of the current Minister of the Interior, in a situation where your colleague today has been given the right to give you orders for which you know that they have not been negotiated in the wider circle of government? I know you've had enough fundamental disagreements, for example, on the appointment of the Attorney General. Would such a governance model inspire you to be confident in a serious crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U187	Thank you for your question. Yes, according to the draft, the Prime Minister is the strategic leader in the resolution of the defence situation, who can give orders to a body and institution, as well as to a member of the government, whose responsibility lies with the institution or body responsible for the resolution of the event. Indeed, as you said, one is theory, the other is practice. This right of strategic leadership and other powers have, in certain circumstances, been given to the Prime Minister precisely to ensure that decision-making is operational if necessary. It is not possible to convene the Government of the Republic every day or several times every day for every current decision to be taken. It certainly depends on the level of the decision. Sometimes a collegial decision is needed, sometimes a strategic leader needs a collegial discussion, sometimes a decision of the kind that can be made without a meeting of the government being convened, or a government office is involved in part in the form of the ministers concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U188	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U189	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Unfortunately, I will continue on this same defence situation. Listening to these explanations, it seems to me that the Ministry of Justice has come up with a pretty gallant solution to the hybrid threat of such a hybrid institution or hybrid institute. On the one hand, there is a special arrangement and on the other, it is not. It's the Ding an sich, the Kant thing itself. It's like it is, and then the government says it is now. At the same time, the Prime Minister comes and immediately informs the Riigikogu and the President that this has now come up with some kind of decision. At the same time, this situation gives the government the right by law to restrict the three constitutional rights, as is the case with it in some way. It seems to me that it is still like walking on very weak ice in the sense of the Constitution. § 130 of the Constitution states very clearly: 'In exceptional or martial law cases and procedures prescribed by law may restrict the rights and freedoms of persons and impose obligations on them in the interests of national security and public order. ' There is no other way. Now we're creating this opportunity. By the way, the Supreme Court has seen the same problems commenting on this. It seems to me that this thing is still unthinkable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U190	You see, Mr. Eerik-Niiles, for four years the panel of experts has conducted this review and broken its heads. To tell you the truth, I haven't had one of these whole gatherings. It is not as you suggest that the Ministry of Justice has found such a gallant's solution. The Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, has also been involved, with experts from the respective fields involved, so it is certainly not a draft from the Ministry of Justice's office. That's one. Secondly, once again, we are accustomed to the term 'emergency', which is not similarly declared. There are certain conditions under which we are identified as having an emergency situation, and it is possible to declare an emergency situation in order to resolve the emergency situation. It is possible, but it is not mandatory to declare it. The same is true of the protection situation. These special situations do not need to be announced in order to address the protection situation; they can also be resolved by other methods. And depending on whether or not the emergency situation has been declared, this is also the gravity of the fundamental barrages that individuals may or may not be subjected to. For example, a restriction on media services cannot be imposed without declaring a state of emergency or martial law. I can't! [[Something's been said in the hall.]] It's not like that. This can only be done during an emergency or martial law situation if they have been declared.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U191	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U192	Thank you. I'll come back to the practical side. You mentioned our last event for a moment, this South-Estonian storm. Actually, the power was down, all the systems had stopped working. Well, electricity to power up, but this event could have escalated to a security threat... the border protection systems were down, and the exchange of information was down. Here's my question. To this day, it is unclear who was responsible for this situation, you say it was not an emergency for handling. So far, I don't know who was responsible for this, MKM, Elektrilevi or whoever. But in this example, it is understandable that the authorities and those who are able to resolve the crisis must be responsible for resolving such a crisis. Am I right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U193	Absolutely! That is why it is extremely important that the various authorities practice together during the exercises. Everyone must be able to exercise his or her powers in the area of his or her responsibility, to put in place measures that fall within their competence. Situations may arise that require intervention by some individual institutions, but certainly also those where very many public authorities, very different national institutions and perhaps other institutions, too, must intervene. And the general principle is that on the territory of the municipalities, there is a general emergency coden with its head. The way in which all of this functions, the capacity of local authorities to deal with emergencies, is a matter of its own. There is no point in diving into this, I think, today, what is the kapasite of these so-called resources and, in the same way, the kapasite of experience and knowledge. However, the coordinating role of the municipality in its territory is based on the fact that it can involve various parties who are able to find solutions to the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U194	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U195	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is clear that the country must have an effective mechanism to deal with such rapidly evolving dangerous situations. But I also understand the previous questioners, and it seems to me that one of the concerns is that the government's power is growing, and maybe there is a chance that this power is being misused. The Chancellor of Justice has reminded us that the Riigikogu has given up too much power. If you put it all together now, don't you think there is a need to find ways to increase the role of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U196	Thank you for your question. Yes, I have also sensed that questions have somehow been called into question by the government's statesmanship, government loyalty to the state, government competence and experience. But I have understood that during the period that the Republic of Estonia has been independent, that the government and the Riigikogu both are still working to ensure that our constitutional order is maintained and that both constitutional order and territorial integrity are guaranteed. That's one. It certainly cannot be said that the government and the Riigikogu are two opposing, antagonistic institutions in the Republic of Estonia. I'm sure you can't agree with that. Secondly, the Government of the Republic takes an oath before the Riigikogu. And if the government is really out of hand and the Riigikogu thinks it does not perform its functions or exceeds its competences, then the Riigikogu can always distrust the Prime Minister and call back the government, so that a government that is loyal to the state and fully serving the state is determined. But I cannot agree in any way with the view that the Riigikogu holds the Estonian state, but the government is absolutely not directed at it or is even malicious about the independence of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U197	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U198	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister, which is, in fact, inspired by the question of a colleague. A very serious debate started here today, and it's not for nothing. I don't just mean the question of power. The question is this: when the Government of the Republic decided jointly at its meeting on this draft, did you have a debate on any of the topics, or did this quickly pass through the referral to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U199	The Government of the Republic discussed this at the meeting of the Cabinet. Of course, at the meeting of the government, when it was decided to send it to the Riigikogu, the opening of the topic was no longer held in depth. However, it was discussed in the study session. But I have to admit, there wasn't such a serious and in-depth debate going on in this Chamber today, there was no study session.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U200	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U201	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm still interested in the government's decision to make that defense situation. Why doesn't the government fix by its decision that there is a defence situation now? I'm interested in how the government will understand that there's a defense situation if it doesn't make that decision. At what point does the government have the right to restrict people's constitutional rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U202	Thank you. How can he tell? It must somehow come to our senses that we are now in a situation whose characteristics are consistent with those of a protective situation. The main feature is that the constitutional order of Estonia has indeed been compromised and attempts are made to change the constitutional order of Estonia by means of non-legislative means, perhaps by violent means. If this is happening democratically, then there is nothing, but there is a need to prevent the violent change of constitutional order. This condition must certainly be met. The condition may also be that, as I said, there are certain manifestations of separatism, the territorial integrity of the State or the independence of the State is at risk. Of course, then, military conditions must be declared. If these are signs, it becomes conscious that a protection situation has arisen and that certain measures must be taken to deal with the problems that have arisen. And these measures, as I have said many times here, are an announcement of an emergency situation, in worse cases, a declaration of martial law if other preventive measures are not enough. Once again, I have pointed out several times that regulation could be compared to emergency rules. This does not require the issuing of a separate national act which states that certain conditions have been found to be fulfilled, a certain situation that has led us to a defence situation. I also do not rule out that, in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, it really turns out that the experts, the experts who made the audit, who subconsciously occupy this area in a much wider and much clearer way, were not able to pay attention to very many nuances. For them, many of the problems were already clear and they could not pay attention to very many nuances, perhaps at all, but in the wider debate here in the Riigikogu Hall or in the future committee they need clarification. These additional explanations may be included in the explanatory memorandum between the first and second readings during the procedure for the draft. And, of course, the Ministry of Justice and I think that the other ministries and interest groups involved are also willing to contribute and participate in this procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U203	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U204	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, This is certainly a very important law. It is very good that experts, specialists in this field, have all the nuances, but the law must be widely understood and unambiguously understood. And as today's debate shows, there are a number of nuances about which it is not now. I come back to myself with the text: this is the same Article 3 'Protection situation'. I think everyone agrees that if this is an event that, as you described, directly threatens the independence, independence, territorial integrity or constitutional order of the Estonian state, then there must be an opportunity to react very quickly. However, the same § 3 (1) (1) adds to the event that threatens the organisation of life in society as a whole. The explanatory memorandum does not explain what an event threatening the entire social system is, and it allows for interpretations infinitely. If we're talking about the whole social system, whatever goes down there. Can you give an example and explain what's meant by it? What are the situations that affect the whole social system in the sense of this law? And yet I ask again why, for which reasons the Riigikogu has been completely excluded from defining the defence situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U205	Thank you for your question. In fact, I do not have the imagination right now to come up with events or situations that confuse the entire country's way of life. In a sense, the government has also been left with discretion. Well, I don't know, we'll have to design-think what kind of situations these could be. But when it comes to why the Riigikogu has been excluded from defining a defence situation, it is primarily a situation where certain existential threats threaten the country. And now it must be determined whether these conditions really exist. I think that, for purely pragmatic reasons, this is based on the view that the government has a fairly clear competence, skill and competence to recognise these conditions. Certain signs indicate that a protection situation exists and that it is or is not. But all further steps, the competence to do them has been very clearly handed over to the Riigikogu. And this already gives the government and government authorities expanded powers to restrict fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U206	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U207	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, We know that no war today will begin with the declaration of war. And anyway, in a row, there's a blurring line, which is exactly what this war is now. I mean, massive cyber attacks and everything else involved. You have used the expression 'certain features' or 'natural features' quite several times today in the context of the defence situation. And it has also been repeatedly asked what these traits are. I ask you this way: is there a legislative plan to list the features on which the Government of the Republic or the Prime Minister can say that yes, boys, now we have a defensive situation? Right now, it looks like the government is going to the balcony at Stenbock's house, looking at the clouds, and saying that we are now in a defensive position. And it is all the more strange that in the arms law, for example, we have been able to write down to the 'last decimal place', under which circumstances I may protect my home and family with a firearm, but in the context of the country, it has become somewhat vague and so intuitive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U208	Thank you. I read here the question of whether it is possible or planned to draw up a list of features that should certainly exist so that we can talk about the emergence of a defence situation. It is certainly possible to draw up a list of certain situations, characteristics, but I don't think it's a good idea to establish such a list at the level of the law. Because this list is exhaustive, and as soon as there is an additional feature that is not included in that list, which is not mentioned in that law, we cannot exercise the powers and activities arising from the defence situation. I think the law should still fix the general concepts, the general frames, the general concepts. Could there be a need for a lower-ranking act, or should the definitions of their general framework be maintained and deduced from it whether one or the other event meets these conditions and leave it to a decision at government level? I certainly do not support the fact that, at the level of the law, some specific list of events, situations, that only in this case do we have a defence situation. If we haven't seen an event coming, we're in trouble, we're about to change the law. But we are still talking about situations where a highly operational response is needed. In such a situation, start changing the law, so I doubt its effectiveness.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U209	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U210	Good manager! Good waitress! This law is not the most extensive. I remember that the draft law on mutual funds approached a thousand pages, this is about five hundred pages with an explanatory statement. I remember how the emergency law was handled, it's half thinner, even for a huge long time. But now, in an attempt to read this bill, then frankly, the question arises as to whether it makes sense to process it so quickly. I see that ten good people have dealt with this, but our warriors have been left out of it, even as regards the questioning of opinions, even though they should be the most important players in this work. A good colleague in Leo Kunna devoted a long Christmas break to reading it to understand that I did not take so much time and it is confusing. And my question is, why were the soldiers excluded? And another thing, the processing period is the usual ten days. Is it worth joking about such a serious thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U211	I really don't know if the soldiers have stayed out or not. Anyway, the Department of Defense has been involved. And the assumption is that the Ministry of Defence has at least engaged the Defence Forces in the discussion of its internal positions in its area of government. At least I expect it. In any case, my previous experience tells me that the Ministry will involve its sub-offices in shaping its positions on such matters and will use the competences that can be gained from it. Yeah, I don't know. As far as deadlines are concerned, this is the right of the Riigikogu to agree on the length of the deadline for submitting proposals. You can make that decision between yourselves here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U212	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U213	Thank you. I'm going to start a little bit further or wider, and I'm going to bring a parallel. As we all well remember, in the Riigikogu, a draft relating to the Defence Forces was discussed quite recently, concerning granting more rights to defence intelligence, eavesdropping of people, etc. As we know... Okay, "listening off" was the wrong word, I don't call it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U214	You have to be precise!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U215	You have to be precise! I won't say it then. But basically it is known that it has reached the Supreme Court. I really haven't read this bill all Christmas break, but if I listen to this debate and I read the text here and there, it seems to me that this bill can go exactly the same way. However, more specifically, I would like to ask about the same subject that if the government feels that the defence situation needs not to be declared, but that the defence situation has arisen. We don't understand how it's reported, what it's done. Paragraph 29 (3) of Chapter 4 goes further and states that the Government of the Republic may decide to implement the measures by means of a pre-administrative act in order to resolve the defence situation. It actually gives the government a very high degree of authority. But we still have not understood what this act is to be adopted by the government, by which it informs the Riigikogu and on the basis of which it already gives completely specific responsibilities to the administrative authorities to do something.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U216	Thank you for your question. The Government of the Republic may issue administrative acts even if there is no state of defence or emergency. However, these administrative acts are still geared towards the need to resolve the protection situation. Once again, all that needs to be clarified, corrected, reviewed by the Ministry of Justice is ready to cooperate, we are ready to think along, make our proposals and justify them. And, indeed, it cannot be ruled out that, since this bill is very important for social life, of state order, of importance for national security, these debates will actually arrive at the Riigikogu. You have referred here to this law, which provides additional opportunities for defence intelligence to secure its own security area and to carry out background checks on certain individuals. But then, in the Riigikogu, it was recognised that the law in other respects is entirely constitutional and absolutely necessary. The only thing the Supreme Court considered necessary to clarify and said that there must be a change of position was information. It was the one and only nuance of this whole law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U217	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U218	Thank you. My question actually concerns the same subject, on which our good colleague, Raimond Kaljulaid, asked twice, who could not have thought of the fact that the head of the emergency and martial law declared to resolve the defence situation and the defence situation is the Prime Minister and, if there is no Prime Minister, he will be replaced by the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. In the opinion of Raimond Kaljulaid, his personal qualities and party belongings should not be what they are. Could you explain, in writing or in any other way, to our good colleague, who is not currently in the Chamber, what is involved in operational action and the so-called structural organisation of government work, how these tasks are to be shared?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U219	Thank you. If he asks us for that explanation, we'll answer. But if there is no Prime Minister, according to the procedure of replacement, the first replacement is indeed the Minister of the Interior, who is currently Mr Mart Helme. The next replacement is the Foreign Minister, Urmas Reinsalu. I trust both replacements, I would have no doubt that either of them would take measures that would harm the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U220	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U221	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Again, § 3 (1) (1) 1: the protection situation is an event or a chain of events, the consequences of which threaten, among other things, the organisation of life in society as a whole. You answered me that you can't define what's meant by this whole society's system of things in the bill right now. But why would such an addition to this bill be written if you didn't really know how to define it and say that it requires too much fantasy? However, I would ask you to give some examples of what this event may be about the whole social system. It is such a broad concept that without an additional explanation, which the explanatory memorandum does not currently provide, this point can really be interpreted in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U222	Thank you, good questioner! I will answer you in writing. I'll be more specific. I don't want to mess you up here, so there's a specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U223	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U224	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Actually, I had the same question, but I'll ask you a little different. When we look at the list of subsection 3 (1) (1), we see that the word 'butter' is used in this list. This means that if there is a situation where the consequences of an event or a chain of events directly threaten the organisation of life in the whole of society, it is already a state of defence. As you said before, in the case of a defence situation, the Government of the Republic has come to the conclusion that this is the situation now, isn't it? And that is why I think it is essential that the situation that threatens the organisation of life in society as a whole is clearly written out. I understand that we have the emergency law in the same way, it also speaks of situations where we have lost vital services, where we have a natural, industrial or man-made disaster. I don't know what's going on. Without further clarification in my opinion, it is not possible to proceed with this draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U225	Thank you. Let's try to find an explanation, then, but this is not the same generalisation as you referred to here that in an emergency, we are talking about the disruption of vital services. We do not describe exactly what vital service it is. We don't have this list of bonds, is this electricity, is this water, is this sewer, is this fresh air or the sun. It has been left to the same generalisation that the lack of service paralyzes the entire social system. Well, that's very clearly analogous.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U226	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U227	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister! I fully agree with you that different characteristics or characteristics should not be included in the law. Let's be honest, the opponent will find a way to organise a mess that we don't have yet. However, another problem has arisen for me. Unless we have laid down somewhere the same features that the Government of the Republic could feel and sense that we now have a defence situation, then there is no constitutional control over whether it was justified or not to declare it. But here's my question. If the Government of the Republic does not declare a defence situation, how will we know that this defence situation is at hand? Are we reading an anonymous post on the ERR portal that we are now in a defensive situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U228	Thank you for your question. It seems to me that this issue, or the question of how we understand when we have reached a defence situation, needs to be very much clarified. You have to get into it and dive into making this term clear for a second time. Let's try to figure this out and explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U229	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U230	Thank you. The Defence Union Act currently in force sets out a number of different points as the tasks of the Defence Union. One of them is that the Defence League participates in strengthening the patriotic and national feelings of Estonian citizens, maintaining and growing the will for protection. This bill expels this item from the Defence League Act, as well as § 12, which states that the Defence League has military capabilities. The current version states more clearly the principle that the Defence League does not have an independent military defence capability to implement, but rather prepares the state's military defence capability for the purpose of the Defence Forces. For what purposes are such steps intended or intended?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U231	Thank you for your question. Well, it's based on the principle of the whole. The Defence League is still part of our comprehensive defence system. The Defence League is involved in national defence activities through the Defence Forces. If there is a time of peace, then the Defence League, of course, operates on a fundamentally different basis and performs tasks different from those under wartime conditions. Under military conditions, the Defence Forces, which organises military defence, are in charge of both the Defence Forces and the Defence League as a whole. In these circumstances, I suppose this term of self-defence has been moved from there and it has been said that he is operating in the Defence Forces, how was he there? On request or in the composition of the Defence Forces, at the order of the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U232	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U233	Paragraph 42 states that strikes may be banned during martial law. But officials are not allowed to strike right now. Are they already living in a state of war or emergency?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U234	Thank you for your question. I hope we don't live in martial law this day. But indeed, certain groups are forbidden to strike. It is also prohibited for certain professions to participate in political activities, for example, by means of special laws. All of this has been considered necessary by the legislator to be set out in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U235	Minister, thank you. No further questions for you. I now request Leo Kunnas, Member of the National Defence Commission, as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U236	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister of Justice! This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 2 December 2019. In the Committee on National Defence, we discussed this first before the first reading at the grassroots level. Margit Gross, Head of the National Defence Law Review Working Group of the Ministry of Justice, who led the assembly of this law, was invited to the meeting on 9 December. He gave an overview of the draft under discussion and the general principles and drafting of the related drafts 113 and 114 on the agenda of today's sitting. The second time we discussed the draft in more detail with Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg at the meeting on 17 December. At this meeting, Mr Aaro Mõttus, Head of the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Margit Gross, Adviser to the same department and Head of the National Defence Law Review Working Group, Mr Markus Kärner, Head of the Penal Law and Procedure Department of the Ministry of Justice, and representatives of the Ministry of Defence took part. I will not go over everything the honourable Minister of Justice has already said about the substance of the draft. I would also like to stress that, as you can see, this draft is so thick: the law itself, together with the implementing acts, is 96 pages and with the explanatory memorandum 600 pages. I have a separate bag to carry it. I'll repeat what's put together here. The current National Defence Act was adopted in 2016 and a total of three earlier laws were put in place: the Peace Age National Defence Act, the War Age National Defence Act and the International Military Cooperation Act. Before that, two versions of the Peace Age National Defence Act have been made: 1994 and 2002. So that's the fourth defense law in line. Of course, our aim should be to be able to adopt a law within this composition, which the next formation should not immediately reform, and that it would last, if not ten, at least 20 to 30 years, so that its fundamentals should not be changed. Currently, the Act on Emergency Conditions and the Act on National Defence Penalty have been added. So five laws. As a whole, everything together is a very voluminous, complex and complex document. That came out in the course of the questions. I will next give an overview of the work of our committee and I will talk about the questions that were asked there. If they overlap with the questions that have already been put here today, I will try to skip them. Mr Laane first asked a number of questions, which he now asked in this Chamber. They concerned how the new National Defence Act interacts with the Emergency Act, who was in charge of what the situation is and who was responsible for the recent storm damage in South Estonia. He's got the same answers as he's got now. Member of the Commission Anneli Ott asked about the financing of local authorities in crisis situations: how will it be ensured that the state compensates local authorities for the costs of resolving the crisis? Margit Gross said that, for example, in the case of an evacuation obligation, local authorities would be reimbursed from the state budget because it was a task for the state, which was carried out by local authorities. Andres then asked about the expropriation of Metsoja's property, whether it would create restrictions on the use of his property during peacetime. Margit Gross replied that the property could be expropriated and enforced under law enforcement law. The Defence Forces shall be granted the right to expropriate property in a security situation. In times of peace, it does not bring any restrictions on people. Jaak Juske asked whether the Government of the Republic could take action in defence situations, i.e. before the state of emergency and martial law were announced in the Riigikogu. Margit Gross replied that measures could be taken even after the Riigikogu had been asked to declare the state of emergency or martial law, but the Riigikogu had not yet adopted the decision. If the Riigikogu does not take a decision, the measures must be discontinued and the damage suffered by the persons must be compensated. Andres Metsoja asked what would happen if the Riigikogu could not meet for any reason. Raivo Time replied that this is when the measures should be taken. The aim is that the state will not be left unprotected if the Riigikogu cannot meet for any reason. In which case Andres Metsoja drew attention to the fact that the state of emergency can only be declared by the Riigikogu. Kalle Laane stated that the Ministry of the Interior should actually be responsible for resolving civil crises and the Ministry of Defence should be responsible for resolving crises that threaten national defence. The current situation is confusing and the recent storm in South-East Estonia has shown this. Many ministries lack experience in resolving crises. People who resolve the crisis must also have good resistance to stress so that they can manage in the face of crisis. Then I myself stated that, in the course of the amendment of these laws, the de facto Prime Minister has become the supreme leader of national defence and this draft also gives him the authority of the Head of Defence. Consequently, I asked whether we should change the Constitution and make the Prime Minister the highest leader of de jure national defence. Margit Gross replied that the draft National Defence Act did not confer powers on the Prime Minister; they still exist in the law. Mr Metsoja asked whether this draft had been presented to the President of the Republic and whether the president's assessment of the draft was known. Mr Gross replied that the draft had been presented to the President several times and that, since the Prime Minister has had the same powers so far, the President sees no problem at all. The President is still entitled to declare martial law and mobilisation in the event of aggression. Mr Metsoja drew attention to § 7 of the draft, which provides for an amendment to the members of the National Defence Council. Margit Gross replied that the law should not bring out specific members. The President shall convene the National Defence Council, determine its composition and rules of procedure. Andres Metsoja then raised the question as to whether the law should provide that persons in the National Defence Council should have access to classified external information. He considered that all persons in the National Defence Council should be in the same information room to be able to make relevant decisions and give advice at critical times. Johannes Kert said that the Commander of the Defence Forces had previously been permanently represented in the National Defence Council, who, according to this new draft, may not now be present on the National Defence Council. The Commander of the Defence Forces would be an aspect of military advice represented in the National Defence Council. No decision will be taken in NATO either without military advice, and the National Defence Council's task is to provide advice on national defence issues. Minister Raivo Aeg found that the establishment of a list of members of the National Defence Council in the law would make the law rigid. For example, ministers responsible for the same sector may have different titles in different governments. I then proposed the design of the law. I considered that the competences of the various institutions could be set out in the National Defence Act and be located immediately after the general provisions, as was the case in the 1994 and 2002 Peace Age National Defence Act. I also found that certain balancing rights should be granted to the Riigikogu when adding certain powers to the Government of the Republic, and that this law could also contain a list of basic documents of national defence and define who will draw up and validate these documents and what they should contain. That was the case with the 2002 Peace Age National Defence Act. Margit Gross replied that the regulation of the fundamentals and development plans was in the State Budget Act. It also sets out the deadlines for renewal. At the same time, for example, the need for a document on the basis of Estonia's security policy is derived from the Foreign Communication Act. Johannes Kert agreed that the objectives must be clear and that, according to the objectives, the money must be allocated, not the other way round. However, if the national defence duties of different institutions, including ministries, are not included in the law in this draft, the functions of the ministries are not formulated, then where do they appear? Margit Gross replied that all ministries and other bodies would continue to carry out their main tasks during the war, which they would be entrusted with by law and statute. This is the general logic of the Estonian legal order. The competence of the Riigikogu derives from the Constitution and the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Each ministry has its own subroutine for its role in a crisis situation. Mr Metsoja asked for a comment on the idea of the Minister for Defence concerning investment funds. This draft national defence law is not currently being dealt with, but the defence industry should be part of national defence. A representative of the Ministry of Defence said that the current version of the draft law is incomplete and should be supplemented. The defence industry is important for the state, but the question is how to define it in law. The next step of the Ministry of Defence is to meet representatives of the defence industry and to discuss the proposals. Some of the proposals concern, for example, provisions on public procurement. I then raised the issue that the introduction of the concept of defence should not lead to the abolition of a tiered preparedness system for the Defence Forces and the public authorities, because they do not overlap or duplicate each other. This system could be developed and used further. Aivar Engel stated that the draft law 112, which is currently being discussed, covers five earlier laws. The previous National Defence Act came into force in 2016 and not all implementing acts were completed. What is the capacity to prepare the implementing acts of this law on time, and will there be any other laws to be incorporated into the National Defence Act in the future? Margit Gross replied that the current National Defence Act created the first legal basis for the implementation of a wide range of national defence. However, this law did not establish the inclusion of society as a whole, such as the tasks of local governments, etc. Upon the entry into force of the current law, it was already known that the National Defence Review would be launched. The number of changes was high and there was a need to draw up a new whole text. It cannot be ruled out that in the future, another law may become part of the National Defence Act, such as the Emergency Act. If it is achieved that the preparation for crises could be in a single law, then it could be the next stage. The draft implementing acts of the new law are in place and the implementing acts should be ready when the law enters into force. Andres Metsoja finally announced that the Board of the Riigikogu, at its meeting on 3 December, proposed to the National Defence Committee that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs be involved in the proceedings. He also proposed to ask the Committee on Legal Affairs for an opinion on the draft, in addition to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the draft proposes fundamental changes to the laws of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legal Affairs. So much for the Commission's discussions. Some of the questions I addressed here actually overlapd with the questions that were asked today in the Chamber. Now I am also talking about procedural decisions. At the meeting of 17 December last year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law under discussion be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading of today's sitting and to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed. I was appointed rapporteur for the draft. In view of the draft and its explanatory memorandum and its annexes, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the President of the Riigikogu a longer deadline than usual for submitting amendments, including 10 February. But today at 14 o'clock, our committee met exceptionally outside this Chamber, where we agreed by consensus that this deadline for tabling amendments would be too short. We will submit a new deadline, which will be February 26th at 5.15 p.m., i.e. the end of the working day. That's all. I am ready to answer questions and encourage you to ask difficult questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U237	Thanks to the co-rapporteur. Ruuben Kaalep has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U238	Thank you. Good waitress! How do you view this bill as balancing the powers of the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu in order to alleviate the opposition's fear of a personal coup by Mart Helme?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U239	I think that the simplest and most clear way to do this is to bring back certain responsibilities to the Riigikogu, for example, the right to appoint the Commander of the Defence Forces. And if we have broad-based national defence and we also deal with the threat of armed internal conflict and hybrid war, which means war with irregular units, so that no one has declared war and it is difficult to identify or prove it, then perhaps the Riigikogu should also appoint the Chief of Defence League, the Director General of the PBA and the Director General of the Capo and Information Board. This could be discussed as a balancing mechanism. If, for example, we fear that a member of a government may make decisions that are premature, then perhaps these balance mechanisms will help to ensure that the Riigikogu appoints the executive directors of key executive agencies. This would be different from the government's determination to come in front of this hall and introduce themselves. And if the vigilantes have questions, they can ask these questions, and the whole process is somewhat more serious and important than just being appointed by the government. We are talking about balancing mechanisms. This is, of course, my personal position; it does not express the Commission's position.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U240	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U241	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I missed whether the Commission was also dealing with the levels of governance. During the October crisis last year, I know, this question came up. Is there any way you can comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U242	The Commission did address this issue. After the administrative reform, we know we have lost the county level, we no longer have the county level of governance. What would happen during a crisis or during a war? 78 municipalities would actually be directly subject to the Prime Minister. But when you think about whether such a system of governance could function during the crisis and during the war, I seriously doubt it. I think we actually need an intermediate, perhaps regional, leadership level. When analysing these counties or regions from a purely national defence point of view, I can see that there could be four in Estonia. I do not believe that there is any alternative to this, that the local governments' union would be able to compensate for its absence or a specific agency, such as the PBGB, or that the Defence League or anyone else could lead the resolution of the crisis on the ground. This must still be done by the civilian authorities and all the authorities should be subject to a specific civil authority in a particular region in order to resolve the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U243	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U244	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Would it be justified to include the term 'crisis situation' alongside the current definitions? Can the terms of the current law be further specified? After all, today's crisis is not about to begin; in legal terms, it is a very broad grey zone. And also in military terms, this grey zone could be very wide. Ukraine, as we know, has still not announced a proper war, even though there has been a massive, full - scale campaign.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U245	We actually have this definition of peace and wartime just because of the Constitution. The Constitution determines which laws we should have. In fact, the Constitution also determines that the state of emergency should be governed by a separate law. This is a legal problem and I find it difficult to answer whether it is correct that these laws should be brought together in this way at all. But yes, I would prefer it if we were talking about peace, crisis and war. This is my personal position again. And I would also use the term 'crisis situation' instead of 'protection situation' within the meaning of this particular bill. Then perhaps there would be greater terminological clarity if we were talking about something. We are still talking about peacetime, times of crisis and times of war. In the explanatory memorandum, there is even an interesting term like "the time of peace." It's almost as good a term as Orwell's "bad" bad. The opposite of a time of peace is still a time of war, and a time of crisis would then be a grey zone or an intermediate situation, which is actually very difficult to define. After all, here was the question of modeling potential crises, defining what they could be. That's very difficult to do, because our potential enemy can be very resourceful.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U246	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U247	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleague Leo Kunnas! However, where does the Government of the Republic know exactly that there is a need to react now? As far as I know, the Russian embassy has been in Moscow for several decades, and it has always occurred to me that they have not been able to identify the contingency centre, the government of the Republic of Estonia. Who, then, will be the one to provide the government with adequate information in due time to do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U248	Obviously, we have two main agencies operating in this area: one is the Defence Police Department and the other is the Foreign Intelligence Agency. That's where the input actually has to come from. But since there are very different crises, I am actually going to go back to the fact that the protection situation or the crisis situation, whatever we are finally going to call it, is, in fact, a kind of response. We also need a mechanism that we can use to prevent the crisis. It would take a step-by-step preparedness system to prevent anything at all. Let us take a simple example: for example, we are waiting for a storm. The government is reading the weather report that there's going to be a storm. So what should MKM do? Elering should be raised to heightened preparedness, which in Elering's case could mean that there are some x-number of line teams on alert who are preparing to go out because it is known that the storm is breaking out in a particular area of Estonia and the lines are likely to break down there. I was simply giving an example of such a civilian crisis. The ready-to-use system should be coherent in both protection and emergency situations. Of course, we do not need two separate preparedness systems; that makes no sense. But the question is, yes, we can see certain attributes, but if we take a particular situation and ask if we can model it, then as a science fiction writer, of course I can do it, but it would just take me more time than I have to answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U249	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U250	Thank you, good manager. In addition to the role of science fiction writer, I think you also have a very good knowledge of national defence. Modern national defence is somewhat different when we are used to understanding it. The threat of hybrid attacks and wars is different and needs to be treated differently. That is why I actually understand the whole sequence of events that hurt society's way of life, but I cannot agree in any way that the drafter still cannot explain it in this remote control. Now, this second speciality in the field of defence: can you describe the paralysing or threatening situation of the entire social system, which should be based on the regulation of the defence situation and also restricting people's constitutional rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U251	Okay, I'll do the experiment. Let's go back to the Bronze Night events and assume that the law was passed before that. And let's continue to model this crisis so that it didn't work out the way it did. Lucky for him, it worked out pretty well. There was a stabbing incident, but it worked out so it didn't go to the use of armed violence. Suppose events had not gone so well and the unrest had grown beyond the use of armed violence by these rebels. Then we would probably have been dealing with the kind of crisis that this law would define. Of course, the next stage, if this event had escalated, would have been for the volunteers, the green men, to have appeared. I'm sure GRU, the spetsnaz won't sleep, does his job, teaches the units out. If it had not been prevented, it could have escalated to aggression. But, of course, that would have meant declaring the next special law order, that is, martial law. Certainly all of this would have taken time, and our aim, of course, would not have been to allow events to escalate and to resort to special legal arrangements for this, be it an emergency situation, if the crisis has not yet expanded to aggression, or, of course, martial law, if it is in some way aggression. It's just an example of a threat scenario. A national armed conflict will never come about by itself. This will occur in exactly the way I described it, i.e. if the Russian special services want to create it. That's one way. The second is that there will be no one separate event, but will be the use of some unidentified weapons units, which may be voluntary mercenaries, Cossacks, whatever, who will not acknowledge any connection with our eastern neighbour. Such events are basically the easiest to model. This modeling can be done, like, on the move, without any more preparation, but of course it can also be done thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U252	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U253	Good waitress! In crisis and martial law, the first objective of a potential opponent is to destroy decision-making and management systems. One very important decision-maker is the President of the Republic, who should declare martial law. Could this law also provide for the regulation of such an extremely important and partly legislative matter in the grey zone, which, if necessary, will replace the President? And even if the Chairman of the Riigikogu is unable to perform this task for some reason, who will then decide? It's a matter of hours, maybe minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U254	Yeah, I also think that's definitely the one thing that needs to be added to this bill. The order of replacement of the President as the supreme leader of national defence must be defined: President of the Riigikogu, First Deputy Chairman of the Riigikogu, Second Deputy. It must then be thought that there may also be more of these persons: for example, in order of the size of the groups of the body of elders. But that mechanism should be in place. Similarly, in the case of the Government of the Republic, the order of substitution should be defined: the Prime Minister, as head of the defence situation, his first replacement, of course, would be the Minister of Defence, the next Minister of the Interior, the third Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, because the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications plays a third important role in broad-based national defence after the first two. And, in fact, this replacement of ministers should also be provided for up to the last minister. We do not know how the crisis will develop, but because of hostilities, officials may be prevented from doing so. And there are all sorts of other reasons that may lead to the need for replacement. Therefore, the order of substitution should be known and there should be more than two people in the chain. That would be very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U255	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U256	Thank you. I come to the same subject that I asked the Minister about. I'm afraid I didn't get an answer. Did the Commission also discuss the abolition of the task of the Defence League to strengthen the patriotic and national sentiments of Estonian citizens and to participate in the preservation and upbringing of defence? Was this discussed in the Commission and, if not, what is your own opinion, could such a task be maintained by the Defence League? And why is it proposed that we eliminate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U257	This was not discussed in the Commission, because we simply did not get to it. I had not just arrived at that point in reading to find out all the things about the implementing acts and how they will work. Of course, the role assigned to the Defence League in the current Defence Union Act should not be limited in my opinion. And we have no reason to do that either. Of course, this law, too, would actually require references. For example, it is clear that we do not need to write the duties of the Defence Forces here because they are written in the Order of the Defence Forces Act, but, of course, there should be a reference that they are written there in order to be systematic. When we put ourselves in the role of a performer, it is clear that those who comply with this law should easily understand what they must do. If the people who comply with this law had to start looking for parts of the Constitution and other laws and put together a picture, then that law would not fulfill its purpose. If we have a big job already done and we make such a big law, if we put the whole concept of national defence together, then there must be all the basic things inside, including references, where there is a certain place in another law, that ordinary people, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people, who are going to comply with this law in times of crisis and war, will understand what they have to do. With this law, there is still work to be done for the sake of systemic design and comprehension, I would say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U258	Kalle Grünthal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U259	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I ask you a very simple question: what is your personal opinion? This draft National Defence Act regulates the work of different institutions, but do you think that there should also be an obligation under the constitution of an Estonian citizen to defend the country? What's your personal opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U260	Mr Ruuben Kaalep also asked whether this bill had any connection with § 54 of the Constitution, which states that every person has the right to oppose. There is no such link in the current text and this, of course, needs to be carefully considered as to how such a link can be established. If we're talking about a wide range of defences, of course we need to talk about the whole complex that's in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U261	Dear Co-Rapporteur, there are no further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, There is an opportunity to open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. This request has not been expressed by the representatives of the political groups, so we consider it to be the end of the first reading. The commission's proposal was this: 112 SE to finish its first reading. The National Defence Committee proposed to the Bureau and the Bureau agreed that the deadline for submitting amendments was 26 February at 5 p.m. That's what it says here. So 26 February at 5 p.m. is the deadline for amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U262	We are going to the next item on the agenda, which is Bill 113 of the Penal Code Amendment Act (anti-State Defence Offences) initiated by the Government of the Republic. We're gonna start reading it first, and I'm gonna ask Minister of Justice Raivo Aegis to wait here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U263	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is one of the three drafts that have been produced in the course of this same national defence review. The main objective of the draft is to bring the regulation of anti-defence offences into line with a broad approach to national defence and to support the enforcement of the national defence function in criminal law. Mistakes against the Defence Forces and the Defence Forces may paralyze the military readiness of the state, make it difficult to defend the state, pose a threat to the rights and interests protected by the laws of the state or persons, and jeopardise the fulfilment of the international military obligations of the Estonian state. The offences of the Defence Forces are one of the specific types of crimes against the state, which are directed against the organisation of military defence and the discipline of the armed forces. The chapter on criminal offences in the Defence Forces Code has not been substantially amended or renewed since its entry into force in 2002. The bill also regulates the regulation of anti-defence offences in matters arising from general developments in criminal law. First of all, one of the objectives of the draft is to ensure that the penalties for offences committed against the defence forces and against the defence capabilities of the state would have a preventive effect in defence-related situations, i.e. the state of defence provided for by the new National Defence Act, the state of emergency and martial law declared for its resolution, as well as during mobilisation and demobileisation, as well as the offences committed by a person participating in international military operations outside the territory of the Republic of Estonia. This is why situations relating to national defence are added to the list of aggravating circumstances. Secondly, the draft provides for a more difficult penalty for secret interrogation, seizure of power in the Defence Forces, disclosure of state secrets and classified foreign information, use of violence against a person in the Defence Forces, non-compliance with the mobilisation order, refusal to execute an order, circumvention of the military service, arbitrary departure and departure, and abandonment of a deadly warship, if committed during a defence-related situation. Foresight of greater responsibility for certain crimes is justified by their dangers. The commission of the crimes referred to above during wartime may have irreversible consequences in relation to a period of peace or other normal circumstances where there is time to neutralise the consequences of such acts and prevent harmful consequences. Thirdly, the draft abolishes the current disciplinary penalty imposed on military service offences. The refusal to comply with an order and the non-compliance with an order are the only elements of the Penal Code criminal offences for which a disciplinary sanction is still required. Liability shall not preclude disciplinary action for the same act and, on the contrary, disciplinary action shall not preclude liability for the same act. Thus, in cases where the act is apparently not intentional, only disciplinary action will be punishable. Fourthly, according to the draft, committing acts within the group as a more serious criminal offence is punishable by arbitrary departure from the force, abandonment of the unit in a combat situation, arbitrary departure from the force with a service weapon, and in the event of an attack. The departure of a larger group will significantly damage the battle capabilities of the unit compared with the departure of one military officer. Especially when a group leaves with guns, it can have a big impact. Fifthly, the draft removes unnecessary duplications and avoids over-criminalisation. The draft repeals the non-compliance with the requirements of machinery, flights and navigation and the drop of the property of the Defence Forces and the Defence League as separate, independent crimes. Acts committed by technical means at the disposal of the Defence Forces shall be punishable in the future by the relevant general formations of persons or property, if no special formation exists. For example, it is not justified that in the event of a loss of property, it is punishable more easily than a person in the military service, and it is more difficult if the same act is carried out by a person who, although having a relationship of trust in the property of the Defence Forces or the Defence League, acts on the basis of a contract of employment or other legal relationship. Acts relating to the drop-off of property shall be punishable upon the entry into force of the bill in accordance with the general provisions of the respective crimes against property. Similarly, there is no justification for punishing a defence officer more severely in the event of damage to health caused by a means of transport than in all other cases with the same consequences. Sixthly, the draft replaces the widely defined compositions of abuse of power and service sloppyness with three new, more specific formations: abuse of the right of command, abuse of subordinates and reckless failure to comply with the order. More specifically defined formations shall ensure that it is sufficiently clear to the person what behaviour is expected of him or her, what circumstances determine his or her liability. The law should enter into force on 1 January 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U264	Thank you, Minister. Questions. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U265	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, What stood out is that when you talk in the draft explanatory memorandum about the impact on public authorities and local authorities, there is no mention of the military police's role in resolving these issues. I mean, the work force's increasing, I get it. Is there any way you can comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U266	The way I can answer that is an amendment to the Penal Code. The Penal Code still clearly defines the compositions and penalties. The participation of the military police must be dealt with in connection with the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U267	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Minister. Now the representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to participate... Co-report. I'm sorry! Co-report, Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U268	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! For a bill of 113, I have the following to report. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft with the Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg and the officials of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence at its meeting on 17 December 2019. The draft act is directly related to the draft national defence law, which bears the number 112, and to the draft law governing the criminal proceedings, which bears the number 114. The first of these was just closed and the second is the next item on the agenda for today's sitting. The general principles of the draft. The offences of the Defence Forces are one of the specific types of crimes against the state that are directed against the organisation of military defence and the discipline of the armed forces. Mistakes against the Defence Forces and the Defence Forces may paralyse the military readiness of the state, make it difficult to protect the state, pose a threat to the rights and interests protected by the State or persons Act, and jeopardise the fulfilment of the international military obligations of the Estonian state. The aim of the amendments is to ensure that the penalties imposed against the offences of military service and against the state's defence capabilities would have a preventive effect, both during the period of emergency and martial law and during the period of defence created under the new National Defence Act and during mobilisation and demobilisation, as well as against the offences committed by a person participating in an international military operation outside the territory of the Republic of Estonia. In addition, other changes are being made to the offences against the defence service and the state's defence capabilities in order to comply with previous changes in the regulation of criminal offences and with the principles of the revision of criminal law, such as the abolition of dubious formations. When the Board of the Riigikogu appointed the commission on 3 December 2019, the Board asked the National Defence Committee to include the Committee on Legal Affairs in its proceedings. As a result of the above and the 'Instructions in the Riigikogu to shape good practice in the procedure of the draft law', the National Defence Committee requested an opinion on the draft from the Committee on Legal Affairs, including by 14 February. Okay, now for procedural decisions. At the meeting on 17 December 2019, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft law under discussion be put on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading of today's sitting, to appoint a speaker on the side of the committee and to propose that the Riigikogu finish the first reading of the draft. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu the deadline for submitting amendments, including 5 February at 5 p.m. Thank you! Any questions for me?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U269	Alar Laneman, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U270	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'd ask in the same direction as before. It is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum that there is an increase in the burden on the police in the case of proceedings, and I was a little surprised that there was no provision for military police in this draft, these activities. Not even mentioned. The military police are like the first line of defence in preventing and also dealing with such important crimes, and I imagine that if there is a crisis situation, in the context of a hybrid war, we know that the police can have their hands and feet full throughout Estonia. God forbid!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U271	Thank you for your question. The role of the military police has been mainly to detect and investigate crimes related to military service. Next, the case has been dealt with by the prosecutor's office and then by the civil court. This has been somewhat slow practice. But this bill basically provides for penalties for offences and penalties are imposed by the court. The military police and the police, as such, have a role in preparing court hearings, not a punitive role. The courts will decide the penalties.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U272	Thank you. No further questions for the co-rapporteur. Thank you very much. It is now possible to open negotiations and the political groups will be able to participate in the negotiations. But the wish for negotiations has not been revealed. We have a proposal from the lead committee to conclude the first reading of draft 113 and, since there are no other proposals, the first reading is closed. The deadline for tabling amendments is 5 February at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U273	The next item is the third item: Draft 114 on the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic, Code of Administrative Procedure and Penal Code and the Amending of Other Laws (Difficulties of Criminal, Misdemeanour and Judicial Procedure during Emergency and Martial Law). Let's start reading it first. Mr. Raivo Aegis, the Minister of Justice, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U274	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, This is the third draft prepared during the National Defence Review. The main objective of the draft is to establish the distinctions between guilt and legal proceedings, which can be applied during emergencies and martial law, in order to ensure the swift and effective conduct of proceedings. In doing so, the Codes of Judicial Procedure do not lose its validity during the state of emergency and martial law. Criminal, misdemeanour, civil and administrative proceedings shall normally be conducted in accordance with the procedures in force. The application of the differences is justified only if it is justified by exceptional circumstances arising from the situation. Another important objective is to make it possible to make distinctions in the normal workings of courts in order to ensure the speed of justice. In times of emergency and martial law, it may be difficult to carry out offences and legal proceedings in the same way as normal situations, as the workload of prosecutors, prosecutors, advocates and courts may increase exponentially. In addition, the handling of criminal, civil and administrative cases may be difficult for other reasons. The amendments proposed in the draft act provide more time for procedural procedures and allow for faster procedures and justice. Changes to the draft can be conditionally divided into three groups. Firstly, amendments relating to the offence procedure. The Code of Criminal Procedure shall be supplemented in such a way that during emergencies and martial law, suspects of a criminal offence may be detained without the permission of the court for up to four days. In exceptional circumstances arising from exceptional circumstances or martial law, in particular the particular complexity or size of the case or the proliferation of parallel cases, the prosecutor's office may extend the period of detention by three days. Thus, the suspect may be detained for up to seven days without the permission of the court. The detention of more than seven days requires permission from the court. The time limit for the completion of the authorisation and notification of the surveillance operation shall be extended. According to the bill, during an emergency or martial law, the prosecutor's office and the court may issue a written authorisation for a surveillance operation within 48 hours of the start of the surveillance operation instead of 24 hours. The formalisation of a written permit within 24 hours may be difficult during an emergency or martial law situation, for example because of the difficulty of communicating between authorities. As a general rule, the person must be informed immediately of the time and type of surveillance he or she has been subjected to. In exceptional circumstances and martial law, the number of persons to be notified may be several times greater than in normal circumstances. In order to ensure that persons are informed of surveillance activities within a reasonable period of time and to avoid a situation where surveillance activities remain secret for decades, the law lays down the principle that the person may be informed within four months of the expiry of the emergency or martial law situation, but the notification may not be delayed beyond five years after the expiry of the time limit for authorisation of surveillance activities. The obligation to translate documents will be relaxed. According to the draft, the documents of the criminal, misdemeanour or court file may not be translated into Estonian. In exceptional circumstances and martial law, the availability of interpreters is limited and therefore the translation of documents is much more difficult. The draft allows for additional measures to be taken to speed up the handling of major offences and cases. State resources must be directed, in particular, at investigating and dealing with offences and cases which are necessary to put an end to the effects of emergency and martial law during times of emergency and martial law. For example, the bill requires the court to order the person to be brought before the court within 10 days of the date on which the case was brought before the court and to declare the judgment no later than the day following that on which the judgment was delivered. According to the draft law, the court may order the enforcement of a conviction or order without delay if the subsequent execution of the decision is difficult or impossible or is necessary in order to rapidly counter the immediate threat to the security of the State and constitutional order. The draft provides the court with the opportunity to decide at each instance on the suspension of proceedings in criminal matters where the case cannot be discussed or is severely aggravated by exceptional circumstances or by martial law. Suspension of proceedings also results in a suspension of the limitation of criminal proceedings. In addition, the bill stops for misdemeanours, regardless of the action, during the state of emergency or martial law. This gives the possibility, once the effects of an emergency situation or martial law have been removed, to deal with acts of misdemeanour which have been delayed but which are not minor misdemeanours which could be left uninitiated. The differences in administrative and civil proceedings envisaged by the draft act will also enable the Court to suspend proceedings in civil and administrative matters and to review the case in a simplified manner as it sees fit. The draft further empowers the President of the Supreme Court to amend the territorial jurisdiction of the review of administrative, misdemeanour and criminal matters, which allows for better application of justice. Another important group of amendments is the clarifications and additions relating to the organisation of the Court's proceedings. Changes in the organisation of courts ensure a more flexible and sustainable use of the resources of courts during emergencies and martial law. According to the draft, the President of the Court may, until the state of emergency or martial law has ended, send a judge without his consent to perform his duties at the Court of Justice of another court situated outside the place where the judge has his permanent place of employment. In addition, the President of the Supreme Court is authorised to appoint a judge without his consent for temporary service to another court of the same grade or lower level, such as a judge of the Harju County Court to the Tartu County Court. It will also be possible to hold hearings in the future, both in normal and other circumstances, outside the normal working hours of the court, where this is strictly necessary for the administration of justice. The third largest group of amendments is the provisions relating to the establishment and establishment of a National Defence College. During martial law, it must be ensured that the offences against the defence forces and the state's defence capabilities are dealt with quickly, throughout Estonia, in order to ensure that they are protected. This is why, according to the draft, the President of the Supreme Court forms the National Defence College and decides to launch it during martial law at the county court or district court. The National Defence College will be set up to be prepared to deal with cases under martial law when uncertainty is greater, a normal trial prevented and may be expected to increase the criminal record of military service. I stress that this is not an institutionally separate special court, as are administrative courts. The College shall be formed during a period of peace in order to have the necessary national defence-trained judges and the system prepared in a crisis situation. The National Defence College will only be launched during martial law and until it is operational, it will be in a "sleeping state." The National Defence College will be made up only of incumbent judges who perform their normal duties during peacetime, but specialize in the handling of offences against the defence service and defence capabilities of the state, as are currently judges dealing with minors. Such arrangements shall ensure that judges in the College have the necessary preparation and experience to deal with cases even during martial law. The solutions proposed by the draft act are consistent with the general principle of fair justice, guaranteeing objectivity and speedy decision-making of the procedure, and the necessary protection and right of appeal for the person. The law is intended to enter into force on 1 January 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U275	Thank you, dear waitress. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister. The co-rapporteur is Kalle Laane from the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U276	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the National Defence Commission before the first reading with the Minister of Justice Raivo Aegis and the officials of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence at the meeting on 17 December 2019. I will not go over the presentation by the Minister of Justice, but I would stress once again that all three drafts are one package. What I would perhaps like to point out, and what has also been under discussion in our committee, is the formation of a national defence college. With this regulation, the Estonian Reserve Officers' Assembly letter, which they sent to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, the National Defence Committee and the Legal Affairs Committee on 25 November last year, is attached to this regulation. On 9 December we discussed their ideas with representatives of the Assembly of Estonian Reserve Officers and their point is, in short, that there could be a separate institution, the National Defence Court. This is not quite the same as the Ministry of Justice, whose proposal is to establish a National Defence College. While briefly opening our debate on 9 December, Daimar Liiv, the representative of the Assembly of Estonian Reservoirs, introduced that their prepared draft aims to establish a national defence court that would fulfil the specific functions of justice in the country during the state of emergency and martial law. Traditionally, this has been a court-martial mission. During a period of peace, the National Defence Court would carry out preparatory work. The proposal of the Estonian Reserve Officers' Assembly provides that the National Defence Court is to be established under the law during a period of peace and is to be prepared for emergency and martial law in cooperation with other institutions. Alar Laneman found at this very sitting that the functioning of national defence courts should not be underestimated by everything that works during peacetimes, even more secure during wartimes. It is important that national defence courts are prepared in peacetime. Daimar Liiv explained that the number and nature of cases varies greatly during martial law and peacetime. It is important that the people who are responsible for the trial during martial law be prepared. During martial law, the normal judicial system will continue to work as far as possible, but it will not replace the national defence court system. Madis Milling said that today the war no longer begins with the declaration of war, but crises escalate and play in the grey zone. He drew attention to situations where a political decision is delayed, but the actual situation already requires a trial of the offences. He asked about resource planning in a situation where the number of procedures is growing rapidly. Milling said that the Estonian Reserve Officers' Assembly has been drawing attention to the necessity of the National Defence Court for 15 years. Daimar Liiv said that the Ministry of Justice had a good plan on the last question, but the question is whether and how quickly it will work in practice. Cases come to court when the trial is over. Cooperation with the prosecutor's office is important. Margit Gross of the Ministry of Justice added that the draft submitted by the Ministry of Justice also deals with the Courts Act. It describes a vision of how a court hearing could be held during martial law, and it also outlines the activities of the National Defence College, the same one that the Ministry of Justice introduced to you earlier. The judges could have taken part in exercises and dealt with national defence during peacetime, which would help speed up emergency and martial law procedures. Leo Kunnas asked whether the Ministry of Justice had seen it as a national defence college or a national defence court college. Margit Gross replied that the institution would be set up at the county and circuit courts and that it would be the college of that court. At present, the draft proposes the formation of a national defence college. The fundamental debate has gone on, and I am not going to give you any further introduction to this session, really about whether it is a national defence college or an independent national defence court. In today's draft, he has been listed as a national defence college. Now I'd like to go back to our meeting on 17 December. At its meeting on 3 December 2019, the Board of the Riigikogu had appointed the National Defence Committee as the leading committee, but asked for the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee to be involved in its proceedings. Due to the above and the good practice of processing the draft in the Riigikogu, the National Defence Committee asked both of them for an opinion on the draft, including by 14 February. What was decided procedurally? It was decided procedurally that the Committee on National Defence proposed that the first reading be terminated. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually ask the Chairman of the Riigikogu to fix the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft, including 5 February at 5 p.m. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U277	Thank you, dear co-rapporteur. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? Doesn't look like it. Thanks to the waitress! There is now an opportunity for the representatives of the political groups to open negotiations. The desire to negotiate has not been revealed. We have here the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 114. As there are no other proposals, the first reading is closed and the deadline for submitting amendments is 5 February at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U278	We will begin the fourth item on the agenda, which is the draft law amending the Structural Support Act and the Foreign Communications Act for the period 2014 to 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. We'll start reading it first and waitress here, please, Minister of Finance Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U279	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I bring to your first reading the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of other laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U280	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry! In any case, I have before me the draft law amending the law on structural support and the law on external communication. Prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U281	I'm so sorry, I have the wrong number on the sticker. Got it. I will come to you for the first reading with the draft law amending the Structural Support Act and the Foreign Communications Act for the period 2014-2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The draft law amending the Structural Support Act regulates more specifically the division of tasks between the Ministry of Finance and the State Support Services Centre in relation to the planning, monitoring and evaluation of structural resources, at the request of the auditors and the European Commission. On 1 September 2018, most of the tasks of the managing authorities were transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the State Support Services Centre, i.e. RTC, as part of a pilot project for single implementation services and state reform, in addition to the tasks of the certifying authority and implementing entities, in order to organise and enhance public services. There will be no change in the organisation of work. Those agreements, which were concluded on 1 September 2018, and the allocation of responsibilities will remain in their current form. In addition, the threshold related to contracting authority's ordering of social and specific services or to the organisation of procurement below the threshold of public procurement is increased, depending on whether it is necessary to check the conformity of the procurement with the general principles and applicable rules mentioned in § 3 of the Public Procurement Act. The ceiling will be increased from today's EUR 5 000 to EUR 20000. The amendment will reduce the administrative burden for the administration of structural resources in the procurement control process and the administrative burden for beneficiaries to verify compliance. The amendment does not affect internal procurement procedures or exempt contracting authorities from complying with the general principles mentioned in § 3 of the Public Procurement Act. In cases where the recipient or partner is not a contracting authority within the meaning of the Procurement Act, the principles laid down in § 3 of the Public Procurement Act must be followed for the purchase of services, supplies or works for structural support where the estimated value exceeds or is equal to EUR 20000. At the moment, this threshold is also EUR 5000. The amendment reduces the administrative burden for the administration of structural resources in controlling procurements and the administrative burden for beneficiaries when purchasing supplies, services and works and verifying compliance. The new threshold will be applied to procurement initiated following the entry into force of the draft law. The threshold will be aligned with the initial level of the simplified procurement procedure raised in the Financial Regulation of the European Union, so that national requirements are not stricter than mandatory for a Member State. The draft law amending the Law on External Relations provides for the possibility of granting for the compulsory execution of a decision to recover aid from external assistance for the recovery of funds granted from the financial mechanisms of the European Economic Area and Norway and for the recovery of funds from the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund and the Internal Security Fund. The Structural Support Act and the European Union's Law on the implementation of the common agricultural policy provide an equivalent basis. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your attention and I ask you to support this bill. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U282	Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U283	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I would ask you about changing that limit. We discussed this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and you have now had some time to think about it. The questions raised by the members of the Commission mostly concerned that, if the ceiling of EUR 5 000 was raised to EUR 20000, the administrative burden, the bureaucracy would probably be reduced. Nor should we apply stricter requirements than are actually foreseen at European Union level. But can this change also have some negative regional impact, given that EUR 20000 is a pretty large contract for rural areas? If three offers are no longer required and a contract is concluded with a large enterprise, such as EUR 19000, could this have a negative impact on small or family businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U284	Thank you. Yes, just as you mentioned, there was a controversy on this issue in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We also tried to review and clarify it at the Ministry of Finance. There is, of course, no way to carry out any in-depth analysis of this subject in such a short time, but we believe that this fear is unfounded. We are still based on the understanding that, if the European Union's support money is given to something, the project promoter will try to make the most of this money, and he will be interested in obtaining the best possible price offer. And if we're afraid of any kind of abuse or dishonesty here, then we have other mechanisms to identify them. So, in our opinion, this risk, this fear, is unfounded.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U285	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U286	Thank you. I'll ask you carefully. The current draft concerns the current period of structural support. But how does this framework fit for the next period? Is there any change of mind? Does it look good? How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U287	Thank you. In fact, this draft has been presented before the Riigikogu mainly because both the European Commission and the Estonian internal audit system found that the division of labour, in which case the Ministry of Finance, who was the controller to date, transferred the control function to its sub-office RTK, should be fixed in the law. There were no actual procedural changes here, so-called legal clarity. And in the process of legal clarity, we also changed the lower limit of the money that was just mentioned. A separate law is needed for the next period. I must honestly say that I am not aware of whether this law has been made, but I imagine that it will go on to a very large extent on the basis of current practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U288	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would now like to ask Dmitri Dmitriyev, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U289	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 14 January and presented to us by Mr Helme, Minister for Finance, the representative of the initiators. As the Minister mentioned earlier, the draft law clarifies at law level the activities of the Ministry of Finance and its administration and the scope of delegation of tasks. The changes proposed in this draft will lead to a slight reduction in administrative burden. However, as our colleagues mentioned here earlier, a number of questions were raised in the Commission regarding the amendment in section 1 (7) of the draft, where the figure of 5000 is replaced by the figure of 20000 in subsections 26 (6) and 28 (3) of the Structural Support Act for the period 2014 to 2020. In principle, we have explained that the aim of the increase in the threshold is to reduce the administrative burden on the control of smaller amounts of procurement and to accompany the increase in public procurement thresholds laid down in the Public Procurement Act. Point 38.2 (d) of Annex I to the Financial Regulation on the use of the European Union budget has also raised the initial rate of simple procurement to EUR 20000. If the recipient of the aid is not a contracting authority within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act, the beneficiary must prove, from the date of the draft, that the procurement has complied with the requirements laid down in § 3 of the Public Procurement Act, which was also mentioned by the Minister of Finance. On a proposal from the Chairman of the Commission, the Commission shall, before a second reading, specify how the practical implementation of this amendment is planned. In conclusion, the Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 22 January, or to conclude the first reading. The deadline for tabling amendments is 5 February, which is ten working days from now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U290	Thank you. Any questions for the co-rapporteur? There are no questions. It is now possible to open negotiations again, representatives of the political groups can participate. There are no requests to participate in the negotiations. We therefore have here the proposal of the lead committee to conclude the first reading of draft 129. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 5 February at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U291	We are going to the fifth item on the agenda and this is the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing initiated by the Government of the Republic 130. Let's start reading it first and waitress here, Minister of Finance Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U292	Now, the bill I offered you earlier. So, the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act. With this draft, we will transpose the so-called Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, while also preparing Estonia's framework for combating money laundering and terrorist financing for the forthcoming international evaluation. With the changes we are making, we want to take another step so that Estonia becomes as uncomfortable as possible in concealing and moving criminal income and that our economic space is as transparent as possible and the rules are clear. The fight against money laundering must protect society from crime and keep the financial system clean and stable. On the other hand, as Minister of Finance, I consider it extremely important that measures in this fight be smart and do not hinder normal economic activity. We have thoroughly consulted both the financial sector and business representatives in preparation of the draft, but also the supervisors, and I believe that we have found a reasonable balance between these objectives. We know that, in the context of the scandals that have hit Scandinavian banking in recent years, anti-money laundering activities throughout our region are under the greater attention of the international community, including the US. At the end of next year, Estonia will probably face an evaluation round by the FATF daughter organisation MONEYVAL, which will also monitor the effectiveness of the FATF's international standards. Therefore, the draft has given attention not only to the directive but also to the requirements of the FATF standards. With the draft, we create a register of bank accounts connecting all Estonian credit and payment institutions, establish a list of positions for persons with national backgrounds and create a mechanism to improve the quality of the data of the real beneficiaries in the business register. We will also increase the powers of the Financial Supervision Authority to monitor the compliance of banks with international financial actions and introduce additional measures to protect whistleblowers. In addition, we make the requirements for remote identification more flexible and improve the possibilities for banks, notaries and other obliged parties to exchange information. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, I thank you and ask you to support this bill! I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U293	Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U294	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I know that the two laws or drafts that you are introducing here in a row are completely different, but I am simply asking that if we raise the floor from EUR 5 000 to EUR 20,000 for using structural funds, so that we do not have to take three offers, then when we look at the Money Laundering and Terrorist Prevention Act, if, for example, it is in a virtual currency or in a form other than a currency, there will be some limits. And the same way, 10,000, when it comes to art and that kind of mediation. These boundaries are very low. Are they internationally agreed and followed by everyone, or have we somehow adjusted them here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U295	Thank you. Yeah, the answer is that when I did this draft, there was a very clear guideline and a wish that we would not do anything more rigorously than the directive or the same FATF rule. So when we talk about the 10,000 euro limit for art mediation, it's not our own fictional number. In the case of cash transactions and crypto transactions, we have actually been given the numbers. And I totally agree that if we look at the volume of money laundering, the volume of criminal or black money movements, we are talking about hundreds of millions or even billions. It is ridiculous for someone to wash such sums by 1000 euros. But that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U296	Thank you. Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U297	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Yesterday we discussed the Social Protection Act in the context of psychiatric assistance. Our society has evolved so much that we are making a correction for mistakes to help this area. What is your assessment of the legislative amendment currently under discussion? If you use sports terminology, do we go ahead of the so-called doping thinkers in the law to fight doping, or do we make some kind of mistake? In other words, are we putting in place sufficiently good legal frameworks to avoid repeating scandalous cases that were only recently very much reflected in the media?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U298	Thank you. There is probably some of this "correction of errors" element here, including the launch of the same register of actual beneficiaries, which should have already been started with the previous directives, but it has essentially not started to work. At the same time, it must be said that the legislative framework for the prevention of money laundering and terrorism is changing very rapidly internationally. There are different reasons for this, partly linked to international sanctions, which have been imposed a little less than in the last ten years, and partly to the prevention of terrorist financing. In any case, it is clear that these standards, which are now being proposed or are still being discussed, are much stricter than they were a few years ago. In my meetings with colleagues in Europe or America, where I have discussed these issues and asked whether they have any experience or a clear understanding of how to solve one or the other problem situation, the answer has often been that it is a new, completely unknown situation for them, and they, too, cannot see any long-term solutions here. One example is that we have also experienced this in Estonia, how banks have gone to the other extreme in the fight against money laundering and very indiscriminately started to cancel their clients, close their client accounts, freeze customers' transactions. I asked the U.S. Deputy Finance Minister how they would handle it. He said that they did not have a solution, but that it was a very serious problem for their economies and that it could not continue. Well, I would have gladly heard the solution. We can't go on like this, we all agree. I might have to say a few things. The money laundering crime is characterised by two aggravating factors. One thing is that this is a very dynamic area of crime - highly motivated and extremely clever people invent extremely complex and subtle schemes and, every once in a while, even more advanced schemes. Secondly, it is a very international crime. When responding to this crime, it is quite obvious that the role of the pursuer is the international community or international supervision. So I don't think we can predict a long future trend here right now or lay down rules in law after which we could say that we are now in good shape for ten years. I'm not that optimistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U299	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U300	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Together, we recognised that the ultimate activity of banks in the United States has already become a problem for the economy, and we acknowledged that this cannot be continued. But we're coming to Estonia now. Is there any way in Estonia that this can continue? Can we impose any requirements on banks so that they cooperate too? It is not the case that an entrepreneur has to prove that he is not a camel all the time, and the same bank that earns more money for our money is simply the same: I do not agree with this statement and now I am closing your account. What can we do in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U301	Thank you. Part of the solution to this problem has been sought in this law and part of the solution is the same as I referred to in my introductory speech: notaries, lawyers, banks have been granted the right not to be obliged but to share information. It just means that if you're going to do some sort of larger deal with multiple parties, and these multiple parties have to fill out a bunch of forms that basically have hundreds of different questions, then at least you don't have to fill out these forms at everyone's house, at the bank, at the lawyer's office, and maybe, I don't know, even somewhere in the court records. Once should be enough, they can exchange that information. The same can be said of background information, which may sometimes be thousands of pages long. If we try to describe what the bank controls when it controls a particular transaction, this list may include hundreds of pages of different documents, contracts that the bank requires. And if they don't get one contract or another, some material from one of the parties to a chain transaction, they're gonna say it's an unidentified deal for them, they're not gonna keep doing it. Everything! This is not actually a normal situation. I have also had a meeting with representatives of Estonian banks, during which we discussed the same problem and how to overcome it. First, we tried to figure out where these rules came from, because these rules are not in the law. Those rules are not in the law! They're either in some regulations, in the banks' internal rules. Someone's been interpreting something. It is possible to improve this situation here, but self-deception is not possible. Strengthening anti-money laundering rules actually means a clear increase in bureaucracy. It is simply that we are trying to keep the increase in bureaucracy as small as possible and to carry out checks and checks with as little effort as possible. One more thing. When I spoke to the banks, I said, "Look if you send all or half of your customers to the door at one point and freeze half the transactions for the rest of your customers," of course it means a lot of damage to the economy in general, but sooner or later someone will start offering a financial service and picking up these customers. It has to be understood. Today, it is not possible that normal money flows will stop in the banking sector. Whether these companies are moving elsewhere or other financial companies that offer this service in a more flexible way come here. This must be taken into account by the banks operating here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U302	Riina Sikkut, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U303	Thank you. Combating money laundering and terrorist financing are undoubtedly very important issues. And that is what needs to be dealt with across countries, because, as money flows move in this way, it is very good if the laws are harmonised. I will specifically ask about this draft. As you said, banks may refuse to open an account or to serve someone. Can you describe the negative consequences of this draft or the risks that banks or other parties have highlighted? Is this only about opening accounts for new clients? Does the fact that the amounts to be checked become smaller, the so-called sieve becomes more dense, mean a higher administrative burden for banks or some kind of procedural burden? What are the concerns of the financial sector as this bill enters into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U304	By way of introduction, I would like to say that in the course of this draft, market participants, supervisors and supervisors were consulted several times, in addition to the Financial Supervision Authority, in Estonia it is also the case with the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIB) and, of course, there was quite a lot of feedback from them. To the question of whether this will increase the burden on the banks, I say yes. Yes, of course it adds to the burden, and there will also be quite considerable costs. By the way, there's an extra burden on the country. If a few years ago the size of the anti-money laundering unit was in the banks, I don't know, maybe two or three people, now their number has increased tenfold. For millions of euros, IT systems will be built, and each bank will do this separately, but this is not the amount that is to be calculated, because all banks have their own information systems, their own security systems, their own internal rules and communication with the mother office are organised in different ways. So the costs are significant for the banks, and this is a relatively new situation for them. Therefore, the imposition of anti-money laundering measures in banks goes awkwardly. It's expensive and it goes clumsy. This issue has played an important role in discussions during the drafting process and in contacts with market participants.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U305	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U306	Thank you. The subject is certainly very important and it is very important that Estonia continues to remain clean. It is true, too, that it has repeatedly emerged from the report that the rules have been tightened internationally, the expectations are greater, and this has increased the cost for both the banks and, in fact, the other duty holders. The situation is paradoxical in this sense, that businesses complain and the banks complain. And it is also true that fines imposed on international banks are often not so much imposed on money laundering offences or cases, insofar as supervision estimates that the banks' control systems have not been adequate. This is, in many ways, a question of setting expectations. After all, the limits that were discussed here at the end of the day are the machine that controls and counts these transactions. But who in Estonia sets the state's expectations, which would be unambiguously clear for banks as well as for entrepreneurs and bank clients?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U307	Thank you. Yes, as I said myself, I find it completely unproductive to carry out some sort of systematic monitoring of transactions of some thousands of euros here. In principle, it is not possible to launder any substantial amount of money from such sums which would have been obtained in a criminal manner. In fact, one part of this smarter target is also agreeing on a certain limit or minimum limit or accepting an existing one. And what have the banks said? That they really want to get either a clear guideline or guidance or a confirmation from which the country from which the border runs for the country. I have had a discussion with the Head of the Financial Supervision Authority, who said that he agrees that there is some reasonable threshold below which there is no point in dealing with it, because even if there really is some kind of black money there is no systemic risk. If you answer your question specifically now, I believe that this signal or threshold should be clearly communicated to the financial institutions by the Financial Supervision Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U308	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U309	Thank you, Mr. Helme! Now that you have had to familiarize yourself with this issue, you have never once taken the opportunity to repent of the ugliness you have said about your predecessor. We have not had any problems with regulations and the Financial Supervision Authority. However, you here today have hinted to the banks that they are doing something wrong, that they are too harsh. You know very well that banks have to bear terrible costs for each individual client and the risk is simply unrealistic. Tell me exactly what you expect from the banks in the context of what you're saying towards them. What should banks do if they are under such international pressure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U310	Thank you. I must admit that I do not remember criticizing my predecessor, Tõniste, somewhere for this matter. But we expect banks to implement smarter systems for enforcing anti-money laundering rules, i.e. not to be knocked out by a table, but to be better able to screen. And this screening work, at least the first screening work, must, of course, be done primarily by computers, computer programs. Of course, up to some amount, the evaluation of transactions goes to people. I would expect people to do so, and that is what I have also said clearly, but with the thought of processing the papers or the data set that have been collected. Here was an example of how a large investment was made in Estonia; this investment came from an investment fund. According to the bank's own rules, they had to complete the entire investment fund's ownership structure for themselves. This investment fund had thousands of owners, didn't it, and if the bank employees couldn't explain the background of one of them, one of their business partners, they said it wasn't pure money for them and stopped dealing with the investor. It was a fund that had invested around the world, very well known and respected. This example clearly represents a highly formalistic approach in the fight against money laundering, which is unreasonable. You have to be able to apply some sort of discretion. So I'd expect some smarter action. Yeah, I get it, of course I understand that tracking transactions has a price on each transaction. When we think about searches into national registers, each request has a price. The price of one query is about two euros or four euros, but if you make these inquiries for thousands or tens of thousands in one month alone, the total cost is pretty high, if you can count money anywhere, then at the bank. So what I expect from the banks is better implementation of these systems.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U311	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U312	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I'm going to ask you two questions at once. The first question is this: do you think that the adoption of this law will ensure that Estonia gets a positive assessment from MONEYVAL? And the second question is: are the following predominantly international requirements that deal with money laundering known?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U313	Thank you. I think that the adoption of the law in itself does not guarantee us anything yet, but its adoption will give us tools or opportunities to prepare for the evaluation of MONEYVAL in such a way that we can go through it beautifully. Here are a few or three critical issues: one is getting the actual beneficiary register on the ground, the other is setting up a strategic analysis centre at the FIU and the third is strengthening the monitoring of international sanctions. So these are the things that, based on our initial assessment, are the most critical of our evaluation of MONEYVAL. And these are things that are in this law nicely. If we do these, I don't think we're gonna have a problem with MONEYVAL. As far as future requirements are concerned, there are now quite freshly established requirements to deal with crypto money or, let's say, to apply the rules on the prevention of money laundering through crypto money. So with these rules, I will probably come back to this Parliament sooner or later. This requires a little more thorough preparation, particularly in terms of strengthening the Financial Supervision Authority. The European Union has the same debate on this issue, but not so much on the legislative framework, but rather on the institutional framework, in order to establish a new Union-wide body for the European Union, which would also deal with the fight against money laundering, how it would operate in the light of the principle of subsidiarity and what functions it could or could not have. These discussions are ongoing in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U314	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U315	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, You said that most of the fight against money laundering, or at least the organisation of this work, would have to be done by a computer. And then you've pointed to the banks you're asking for smarter action from. Why do we have this, I would say, an irrational situation that banks must inevitably search the business register in order to carry out money laundering controls and implement these measures? Why can't the State make it so that even if these data are not in cross-use between the business register and credit institutions, at least authorised staff of credit institutions will be granted limited access rights to the data? At the moment, the bank has to pay for these enquiries. It's not rational. Can't it be arranged, like you say here, that the computer will do the job?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U316	Thank you. Not just the bank, but the notaries, for example. The answer is very simple. Above all, we are talking about a business register, right, which is the main place where inquiries are made. It is essentially a self-preserving institution with its own fees. In this way, he is structured in Estonia to cover his expenses. And this equilibrium point has been found in such a way that the price of the query has been calculated. If we decide that we want the banks to have their lives easier, then the taxpayer will have to bear this cost. This amounts to around EUR 5 to 6 million per year. I don't dare come before you with that kind of talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U317	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U318	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. All the talk we've been through is asking this question: if computers are tracking out the first-risk companies or people who can launder money, and if someone gets into this situation, even if it's a private person, and he still wants to settle in that bank, will there be a silent reversal of the burden of proof in practice that a person says he doesn't break the law, but...? How do you see this situation? Can it happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U319	Thank you. The reverse burden of proof was one of the things that was strongly proposed during the preparation of this law. I didn't agree with that. In any case, I do not agree that we are moving in one direction other than the rest of the criminal area, that is to say that people must begin to prove their innocence, not that the state must start to prove someone's guilt. In essence, I agree that it is still the case that people have to prove that they have not received money in any way unfairly. It is clear that the bank has the right to carry out a certain background check and should have the right to carry out a certain background check, but the question is how far it is obliged to go or it has the right to go. We have happened that the "Know your client" principle has grown as metastases so that you do not need to know your client, but you also need to know all your client's clients and friends, relatives, acquaintances. I do not believe that this is justified or reasonable. You must know your client, of course. Basically, we get back to what I was talking about at the beginning, that as far as I've been asking my colleagues how you're going to solve it, the answer has all been that we haven't figured out a solution yet. And it is also clear that, if there is no solution to this situation for a long time, some kind of setback will come from somewhere else that we may not even be able to predict right now. So I think we need to find this solution and find it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U320	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to co-rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U321	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Commission discussed the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and other laws 130 at its meeting on 14 January. The draft was presented to the Commission by the Minister for Finance, who, together with the officials of the Ministry, also answered questions from the members of the Commission. The discussion and questions concerned the following important issues: the identification of the actual beneficiary, including keeping a register; the presence of persons of national backgrounds, including family members and close associates; the approval of the establishment plan of persons with national backgrounds in the Member States; the enhancement of flexibility in identifying persons; measures to prevent money laundering in art trafficking; operational restrictions associated with current criminal sanctions; the transposition of the Fifth Money Laundering Directive to Finland; the provision of data exchange between obliged persons; fees for accessing registry data; the relaxation of maintenance measures for exchangers; the need to submit regulations and drafts resulting from the draft; the delay in initiating the draft, including the dispute over keeping the register of the beneficial owner; the desire to transpose the requirements of the Directive in such a way as to minimise the additional administrative burden. The Commission took three consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda, including by 22 January, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, or the rapporteur, be appointed as rapporteur. The Commission has addressed 16 stakeholders and bodies involved in the preparation of the draft for an opinion and proposals are expected from them by 5 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U322	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U323	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! From the previous discussion, we understood that businesses are difficult and banks are difficult. I am now very confused and ask you: which companies or banks create more values in Estonia? I'm asking because I know whose side to go to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U324	Thank you. I will give a very simple answer: banks are also companies and value-building companies through people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U325	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U326	Honourable waitress! The bill contains a section of a person with a national background. I do not know if you can answer this question because it concerns data protection. Everyone in this hall must have filled out such questionnaires as those who know who. I wonder how private operators will be able to protect such an extremely valuable database, which could be of interest to a large number of other actors, including the security services of unfriendly countries. How can you protect this data array of people with a national background, for example, that comes into the hands of a bank?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U327	Thank you for a very good question. We're public bodies anyway. We also had this issue raised in the Commission that how far it should go to the list in this bill has already been reached by the spouses of our children. This issue will certainly come up again in the forthcoming discussions within the Commission. Both banks and the Financial Supervision Authority have been invited to the table to ensure that data that are not public are not made public in any way criminally.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U328	Thank you very much. No further questions for you. As foreseen in the procedure, talks can be held in the negotiations. Jürgen Ligi, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U329	Vice-Chairman Siim Kallas
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U330	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U331	What else I have in my ear about Helme is how he blames banks. I actually think he understands that banks can't just say that we're taking a client, whatever happens. It's gonna take the banks days to figure out who's going to open the account if there's some kind of suspicious thing. And often there is no result. Do they have to accept this fine and the damage to their reputation? That's not something the Secretary of Finance can tell them. As long as the Minister of Finance does not have a better regulation to guarantee banks that they cannot be punished for being short, he does not have the right to blame the banks either. On the contrary, it must be explaining work, not blaming work, as populists are accustomed to: it is always someone else who is guilty of capitalistism, forerunners or bad weather. So, anyway, four seasons. I also mention these other names here: Jaanus Karilaid, Artur Talvik, the Helme family, are those who have harmed Estonia's reputation, standing up when the Danes smeared Estonia. And, of course, Jüri Ratas, who didn't move a single thing to say that, listen, stop, actually solved this problem in the prevailing part of Estonia years ago. This problem is naturally redefined and now, for example, Swedbank is a tooth. But in the case of Swedbank, these risks, or these problems, are still tiny. It's kind of an afterwave. The only person I am here, say, who will positively highlight Estonia's peaks, I am not talking about opposition politicians who were then under the smear, is Ardo Hansson. He was indeed the one who spoke internationally and explained what could be done and what was done. And since there are no more such people, this is actually the main problem why Estonian companies and Estonian banks have so many problems. We ourselves took this as an internal policy issue instead of admitting our achievements and trying to influence international regulation towards reasonableness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-22_U332	There is no further request to speak. We have here the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 130. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 5 February at 5.15 p.m. Many thanks to all the participants in today's session! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.48 p.m.
