ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable members of the government! Let's start another briefing. First, we'll do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U2	There are 31 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 70 members. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg and Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. And as always, first the pre-registered questioners get the floor, who will also have the opportunity to clarify the question, and then they can ask another question from the floor. The length of the question is two minutes and the answer is three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U3	The first option is to ask a question on Indrek Island. He'll be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U4	Thank you, Mr President, for giving the floor. Prime Minister! The wise does not rush, there is one possible Estonian proverb to use to justify why the government took several months to finally make the decision to compensate for the first days of sickness. But I still want to congratulate you on reaching it last Thursday. True, the Social Democrats and many other social opinion leaders were forced to work for months to explain to the government how important this is in the current situation, where we know that the second wave has arrived, and what a role there would be for workplace colleges, many of which could have been prevented if this decision had been taken earlier. And it was preceded by a lot of questions in this Question Time, both from me and from my colleagues. This was followed by the fact that the Social Democrats were forced to take breaks in the second reading of the state budget in the Riigikogu last Wednesday in order to multiply this basic truth to infinity and to remind you once again that it needs to be dealt with now and now. This was followed by a vote by the government coalition on the same day on the Socialist draft. And now you're going violently to include this decision in another bill. It's all rather strange. But it's a good thing something happens from 1 January at least. Here's my question for you. If we know that it was only necessary to find 5 million, which, given the size of our crisis budget, is not an excessive number, but its impact is significant, why is it not going to apply now and now? Why don't you introduce it now and now, why only from 1 January? Not to mention that this decision should have been made on 1 October. Why are you stalling it when we are in a very clear and strong wave of the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for that question. I agree very much with many of the things you said. On the one hand, the smart one doesn't rush. And on the other hand, I'm actually saying no to the credit for you. As you said, we had a very long discussion with you on these same sick days last Wednesday, and I think that this result, as you say, yes, is not exactly what your desire and idea was. You asked for compensation from 1 to 3. until the day. But, as I said last Wednesday, it is important that we can work well with employers and trade unions. And the truth is, they too saw that sickness days could be compensated for by 2. until the day, which really changes the number of days reimbursed by the employer, reduces it by one, but at the same time brings the compensation forward by one day. And as of Day 6, this is done by the Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian taxpayer. Now, if you answer your question... As I said last time, on Wednesday, I say today too, of course this is a decision with budgetary implications. Whether it's only $5 million or it's $5 million, that's what I think we shouldn't argue about. This is in any case an important amount. But I think that even more important is the content of the decision: if people are sick or if they have signs of disease, they will not come to work, they will be at home. As we discussed with you here last Wednesday, the reason for the arrival at work with the symptoms is precisely that people get low or medium pay. But I'm sure higher-paid people have a pretty big hit on their monthly wallets if they don't get paid for the first three days. So I am very pleased that this decision has been made. Now, your question is, why can't we do this now and now? We also did so temporarily in the spring, and now it is planned to be introduced for four months: from 1 January to 30 April. This requires the Riigikogu to amend the law. This requires that you, the honourable legislative body, give this opportunity, that you consider it important. And for my part, I say that I think this is a sensible step. It is true that the situation with regard to COVID-19 is very serious. You can get infected anywhere. I had a conversation with the Health Board today, too. They also say that, for example, in the capital city of Tallinn, where there are very high levels of infection, infection can occur on the street and anywhere else. Gathering in large groups can be dangerous for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U6	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U7	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. However, this answer does not satisfy us at all. Your interpretation of my rather ironic question of how to justify your doing nothing in the midst of a growing viral proliferation situation is certainly not adequate. To say that the wise does not rush, at the moment when it is necessary to save the drowner, this is definitely not the place where the old Estonians used the proverb. If there's a fire, they'll react right away, not use proverbs to see if the house burns down to the end, or if there's something standing up. All this talk that everything takes time and now it needs to be incorporated into the law, too, is not really an adequate answer. The Social Democrats already submitted their draft in September, which could have been adopted as a law long ago and made that decision. And so, in September, the Ministry of Social Affairs came up with its possible options, which were just as prepared to proceed. Instead of trying to work together and actually look for a solution, you have stretched it. When we talk about 5 million, it really is a lot of money in itself. But the alternative costs of not making a decision are certainly significantly higher. The question arises here: if this 5 million is money that you will otherwise not find in the budget, did you delay because you wanted to find money for the referendum? It'll cost at least half of it. You could have done it from 1 November for the money you spend in a referendum. But that's my question. Now that you have acknowledged that we are experiencing an acute health crisis again, will you be able to establish yourself in the government on this issue and make it clear to your coalition partners that, during the crisis, you need to focus on mitigating the crisis, dealing with its effects, not on the marriage referendum that your coalition partners are imposing on all people? In fact, we know that studies show that most people in Estonia do not want such a referendum, it does not consider it necessary. Can you make it clear to the coalition partners that this is the wrong time and the wrong question to ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U8	Thank you. I have never thought, Mr Indrek Saar, that there is irony in your speech here in the Riigikogu. So when it was, as you say, on your first question, you totally fooled me. To make ironic comments in a very complicated situation caused by the corona virus and in a very difficult economic situation, I don't think it's a good tone. And I'm really rejecting it now, I think it's kind of outrageous. I want to tell you so much that yes, the Ministry of Social Affairs came up with its own thoughts. It is, of course, the Minister of Social Affairs who, as one of the parties, has to negotiate with employers and trade unions. On the other hand, you say that you came up with your proposals in September. And the government finally has to make a decision. If one of the ministries comes up with their proposals, they'll have to be analyzed. That's why I said smart doesn't rush. Of course, a change also requires a financial view; it requires resources to be found, yes; this analysis took time. Could it have been done faster? I think we could have done it faster, but it was real until we could make up our minds. And I said that if we decide, we'll inform you immediately, and that's how it's done. I think that the fact that we are not going to work sick is, of course, very important, but I cannot say in any way that solving the issue of sick days is the one and only magic wand. Another big issue is in Estonian society, whether the mask is a magic wand or not a magic wand. I don't think we have any magic wands. If you say what it's all about, it's that we're reducing the number of our contacts. When we meet today, I don't know, ten people, tomorrow we'll try to meet eight people to reduce the number of contacts. This really, I think, is one of the main messages. However, the main message today or this week is actually that the situation is serious. You can get infected anywhere. We need to break down the contagious chains, we need to respect the restrictions imposed in the country and we need to take all safety measures. As close contacts, we need to stay at home and we really recommend giving priority to electronic channels and using e-services. Now, I do not agree in any way with what you said that I, too, understood that we are in a crisis or that the situation is acute, as you say. I say with all seriousness: the entire coalition of government today, all ministers from the EKRE, both the Fatherland and the Centre Party, have realised throughout this process that the situation is not serious, but very serious. We have always worked with top specialists, scientists, professors, scientific councils, who have given us all the help and knowledge we need. So I would like to say that the whole coalition has, from the very first moment of the crisis, led the country through this crisis and also taken measures to alleviate the economic crisis very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U9	Urmas Kruuse, sorry, Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The question is about the spread of the virus and the organisation of the school. The Government of the Republic has decided that in Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa all upper secondary schools must be in distance education from the coming Monday. In yesterday's "Actual Camera," we learned how Jüri Gymnasium in Rae parish has launched a petition where they say they still want contact training. They propose to do so in smaller groups, perhaps, and especially in those subjects that have final exams. They are concerned about the quality of their education; they are concerned about their exams; they are concerned about their future. I think that young people who are worried are rather responsible and could be trusted. What do you think of this petition? And what's your message? Could young people, schools, schoolkeepers, in cooperation with the Health Board and the Ministry of Education, still be given the opportunity to develop a system in which young people can still study at school through responsible behaviour and have confidence that they can acquire subjects in contact learning, not necessarily in distance learning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U11	Thank you for this question. What am I saying? First of all, I believe that we are all very concerned about the future. Our wish is... Or, well, the government cannot only be concerned, the government must also act, naturally understand the concerns and expectations of the various social groups and maintain balance within our society. We have said very clearly that going to secondary school distance is linked to the desire to limit the spread of infection, to get the infection rate down. Yes, we know today that young people, if they were to be infected with COVID-19 disease, tend to suffer less easily than more severely. But they're going home with their mothers and fathers and perhaps their grandfathers and grandmothers. And I'm sure the young people are very active. That is why this decision had to be made. This was proposed to the Government of the Republic by both the Scientific Advisory Board and the Health Board. After all, we have clearly stated that our desire, on the one hand, is for us to be together with our loved ones for Christmas and the end of the year. At the same time, we also want to keep comprehensive school in contact education and not in distance learning. What we want is for us to get as soon as possible, if we can go back to contact training in upper secondary schools under R. And the same government decision you were talking about says that January 10 is the last day of distance learning. After that, contact training begins again. We think in the three weeks we're gonna miss real school, we're gonna take one step to keep the virus from spreading. You also say that the Health Board could develop a system or a solution. That's what he's done. We take both the Health Board and the Ministry of Education and Research, for example, the city of Tallinn, who has also made his/her visit, so that during these three weeks, starting from the next week, the transition to distance education must take place from Tuesday this week to Friday this week, students with special educational needs can continue their contact education. We have also said that in the near future, if exams are to be taken and foreign language exams, for example, in the near future, consultations and learning activities will certainly take the form of contact learning. I think it is very important that our students get good results, and I think that these solutions will help to ensure that the exams are carried out as well as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U12	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U13	Next question, Number 2. Plays Liina Kersna and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U14	Thank you, President of the sitting. Prime Minister! In the spring, when we knew less about this virus, most countries turned their schools to distance learning. Today it is quite clear that distance learning has also had very bad consequences. A third of students estimate that their learning outcomes have fallen. The mental health of children and young people was clearly a bad result. 40% of young people said they felt more stress and tension than they did a few months ago. And the World Bank has calculated that five months of distance learning will lead to a reduction in future costs of $10 trillion. In Question Time last week, you said that the aim of the social restrictions is to keep schools open. A very sensible decision! However, the decision has now been made to send the upper secondary school classes to the distance studies in Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa. This applies to nearly 90 upper secondary schools, with only a few schools known to have had hearths. I've spoken to several high school leaders, and everyone told me as one mouth to make hybrid education better. In this case, distance and contact learning would be combined, smaller groups would attend school regularly and would be able to provide students with the best possible education in a balanced way. At the same time, the school family's health would have been maintained. My question is: why, however, did you rather prefer to put schools into distance learning rather than in favour of hybrid learning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U15	Thank you very much. I am still of the opinion that we must make every moment and every day so that we can say two things today: that contact education continues in our primary schools and that upper secondary schools return as soon as possible from distance learning to contact training. If you ask why we support the opinion or position of both the Health Board and the Scientific Advisory Board today, unfortunately we are in a different phase than we were a week ago. God forbid we'd be on a different level in two weeks than we are today. There's a threat. I have said a few weeks ago that we are in a very critical state, that we are not far from the crisis. That's true today. And what does that mean? This means that if we are currently measuring the situation in terms of total or partial closure, then there is still one gauge standing. And that's so we can keep up the planned treatment. In spring, the scheduled treatment was already closed at this level. Today we know that according to the arrangements made by the Health Board, at the end of November, the planned treatment will close to 30%. We know that if the virus does not go down, if the virus continues to rise in Estonia, then a few days before Christmas, basically scheduled treatment can be done to a very limited extent. So today, the goal is that we can still keep the planned treatment open. And as I also answered Mr Võrguship's question, so I say to you, Mrs Kersna, that we wish to restore contact training as soon as possible also in upper secondary schools, high school classes. You say the fires are in some schools. It's not! There's no point in telling me how many schools there are, but there's still a lot of schools where that virus spreads. And it spreads with the tide, not with the fall. This is a clear assessment by the Health Board, and that is why these decisions were taken about Ida-Viru and Harjumaa. You're asking if we could use the hybrid option that some part of distance training, some part of contact training. As I said in reply to the previous question, those students who have special needs, who have special educational needs, receive contact training. Those students who will soon be conducting a major international test of German or an English test will be able to go on with contact training to go to consultations. It's very important. The purpose of the restriction is that we can return from distance training as soon as possible to contact training, which is today's hope.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U16	Liina Kersna, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U17	Thank you very much. Of course, society as a whole must make an effort. At the moment, it just seems that we know that vocational schools remain in full contact education, that the whole class can go to the theatre or concert together, but they must not go to school together, that it is the gymnastics that have been disproportionately hit. And it must also be taken into account that today's tenths graduated from the ninth grade in spring, and it is known that all teachers say that there are holes in their knowledge that need to be patched. Secondly, the twelfths who have to graduate are in a very bad position. This measure seems to me to be disproportionate, in fact, it would be possible to organise hybrid education safely. You have rightly said that the Health Board has sent a guide to both schools in Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa that students with special educational needs, as well as those preparing for international language examinations, may be in contact education. But I hope you're aware that in general specialized education, talent is also considered to be a special need. At present, however, there is no guidance that preparations for substance olympiads should receive contact training. If I may ask the government, would you allow such flexibility that those preparing for the substance Olympiads can still receive contact training?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U18	Thank you. We are, Mr Kersna, in a very difficult situation. You're saying that schools are in a difficult situation, that seniors are in a difficult situation, that grades 10 and 11 are in a difficult situation. I agree, it's really difficult. The whole society is in a difficult situation, the whole world is in a difficult situation. The question is how we will be able to say, most balanced, fastest, most sensiblely come through this difficult situation, balancing all the time on the border with health and lives on one side. You can see the same data on the infected that I see. If you take out today's number of infected people, it was 384. The hospitalization of patients is rising, and that means, as I have already said, that the scheduled treatment is closing. By the end of the month, 30% of it will be closed. That's a very big problem. That's a very big problem! So today we are making these decisions for this purpose, we hope that they will be short-term, and I would stress to you that we really hope and believe that they are short-term, to get back to contact training as soon as possible. Of course, I understand that seniors, as well as grade 10, are not prepared enough, but I think that there is always a way in which students can be better prepared. Today we are not in a normal situation, we do not live in the year 2019 in November or in 2018 in November. We are in a situation where, looking at different continents, different parts of the world, infection is increasing throughout Europe. True, we can say that there has also been some kind of stabilisation in Europe in recent weeks; the angle of rise has remained the same; it has not grown so quickly. Is that good news? Yes, it is good news in the long run. Now, could we allow such consultations as we allow a certain group of students to take the exams as a substance olympiad? I will certainly discuss this with the new Minister for Education and Science. Today, Jaak Aab is already quite legally in this position. These issues must certainly be discussed in cooperation with the Health Board and in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research. But I will once again tell you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, Mrs Kersna, that we are not under normal circumstances. If we didn't do these restrictions today, I think you'd be asking in a week: why didn't you close schools a week ago, now all the schools will be at distance school until the end of spring? That's not what we want, we want students to have as much contact training as possible. And according to the government's sense, this will provide an opportunity to return to contact training more quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U19	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U20	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I believe that we all understand the seriousness of this crisis in the same way. After all, the focus of our questions is to understand what was the point of consideration for one or the other option and behind the decision made. Me and I think that the thousands of parents who have daughters and sons in high school are also looking forward to explaining why such a very determined decision to transfer the upper secondary school to full distance education was still made. If we look at other countries, for example, Belgium and Sweden have not taken schools to distance learning, they have not completed contact training. As my colleague, Liina Kersna, has said, it is only logically and also cognitively difficult to understand that if these same children can go to the store, the hobby circle, the practice, the theatre and the cinema together, why they should not be in school together. Please explain what alternatives you still had on your desk! Perhaps there would have been less stringent measures? Yesterday I looked at the gymnasts' petition and address from the AK and I saw that these young people actually have a problem with what happens to their future, how their education continues. I think everyone needs that explanation. What were the alternatives when you decided to introduce compulsory distance learning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U21	Thank you. I agree with Mr. Gridship. I think Mr. Networker spoke from Jüri Gymnasium earlier and confirmed that they were reasonable young people. I think that young people are very reasonable, very conscientious. But I don't know where you're gonna find that if there's three weeks or a few weeks of distance training, everyone's gonna run from Monday to Friday to thirty or twenty-five movies or concerts. I think that young people understand very well why this decision was made. Mr. Gridship said that, and I support the Gridship here. Young people are reasonable, they understand very well that we did this because the virus's spread has gone up in vertical. He's up! If you ask what alternatives could be, then one alternative is that we do not make any limitations in society. It's an alternative. The second alternative is that we will completely shut down society. We believe that certain restrictions are needed, but we do not want to shut down society. When you asked me why it was done, I think I've answered it twice. I'm gonna answer you for the third time now. We did this because, if the number of infected people continues to rise, we will be able to reach the COVID-19 patients in the next 30 days, as I said before, for days before Christmas, that hospital care may have so many patients that basically we can no longer keep the planned treatment open. That's one reason. The second reason is that, of course, we also want to keep the economy open in this spread of the virus, while at the same time preserving human health, people's lives. Those are the arguments. Now, you have said on several occasions yourself that you must listen to specialists and scientists. As I said, it was a proposal from the Scientific Advisory Board, it was a proposal from the Health Board. They deal with this pandemic every day, and they say that now there is the highest infection or, let's say, one of the highest infections in the youth population. And unfortunately, this figure is rising. Unfortunately, it's rising! Now, as I said in answering the previous questions, we need to do everything we can to keep more distance and reduce contacts. It is also important that hospitals endure. The truth is that hospitals are more likely to be reached by older people than by young people. But we may all need scheduled treatment at some point. Our wish was to find a compromise, and that is, I think, found. We are allowed consultations, certain students will receive further contact training, and it will also be stated the final date when it will end: 10 January 2021. At least we hope and believe that it can end and then we can come back to contact training. I think that this is a very clear and very specific objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U22	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U23	The next question is order number three, it is presented by Signe Riisalo and answered by Minister of Justice Raivo Time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U24	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! International organisation Without Borders Reporters has assessed Estonia's freedom of the press to 14th place according to its 2020 index. In a year, there have been three downfalls. Three aspects were identified as the main reason. One of them is the activity of a government department. You have spoken at the government press conference on 19 November on a subject that violates freedom of the press and have given a clear signal that it is necessary to check whether there has been illegal surveillance. How do you explain your statement in the context of guaranteeing freedom of the press? What effect can such a statement have on freedom of the press, in your opinion, and in what other cases have you intervened directly as a minister through law enforcement agencies to resolve the case? I would like to ask you not to hide behind the shield of the Minister for Education and Science who has resigned and his family members, but to explain the positions you have expressed in the press.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U25	Thank you for your question, good member of the Riigikogu. It is really very nice that the freedom of the Estonian press has also been highly appreciated at international level, very good. I also find it regrettable that there has been a certain decline, but at some point, there may be a rise again. You referred your question to the press conference and said do not concern the Minister for Education and Research and his family members who resigned. But it was precisely because of this that the speech was there. And I am still of the opinion that, by following him privately or following him, which word you like, the most certainly did not act in accordance with the reporters' own code of ethics. On the other hand, it was my opinion that this was going to a very close-up situation from the point of view of our penal code. In order to assess this, I asked the lawyers at the prosecutor's office, the Attorney General, if it could be a private pursuit. Today we know that the prosecutor's office has taken the view that this is not the case. The State Attorney, Taavi Pern, has also indicated that there is no such thing in this case. At the same time, they have pointed out that journalists must also remain within the framework of the law in carrying out journalistic experiments. So, on the one hand, this issue has found a legal solution. And then, in further action, I think, on the basis of the code of ethics of children in various media publications, journalists among themselves can discuss the matter and shape their views by analysing the situation on the basis of the code of ethics created for themselves. So, are there any more cases? I haven't analyzed any more cases. All the attention is focused on this very same case, and I hope that there has really been no such case before. And more importantly, I hope that similar cases, where we have to deal with such a serious issue as private pursuit or discuss possible violations of the Code of Journalism Ethics, will not come in the future. I guess we learned a lesson here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U26	Signe Riisalo, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U27	Thank you. In your reply, you referred to what happened in the context of the Penal Code as borderline, but also in the context of the Code of Journalism Ethics. I'll count it out if I don't count another attack, then no excuse. I think it would be reasonable, in this confusing situation, for the Minister of Justice to send a clear message to journalists that there was no desire and no desire to attack and muzzle the press. You still have that opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U28	Thank you for your question. My position is also in this regard. At the press conference, I made it very clear in my presentation that I am thinking in particular of monitoring children, photographing children and later publishing children's pictures in the public media. True, this part of the press conference is not very much reflected in the public media. But I'm going to read it. I have this verbogram. "As I say, journalists have a kind of special status, just through these journalistic experiments. But in this case, the question is not, in this case, third parties have been identified as traceable objects. " Yesterday I heard someone say we didn't actually photograph the children, we took pictures of this car, the kids were... like they just got caught by the car. That's a funny explanation. What kind of talk is that? And further on: I clearly marked with my message that there was a limit to ethics for me and, in some ways, perhaps even at the time, I felt that the limit of the law was exceeded by the fact that children were being watched in private. And children's pictures were later made public in the public media, which is not entirely in line with the same code of ethics of journalists themselves, which clearly states: children must generally be interviewed or photographed in the presence or with the consent of the parent or other person responsible for the child. Exceptions to this rule may be made if it protects the child's interests or if the child is already under public scrutiny. Well, obviously, in this case, the protection of children's interests was not at stake. This is where I read that there is quite a mistake in this regard against this very code of journalism ethics. I have not heard the journalists take the view that they have, in a sense, crossed the line, but have condemned this behaviour to the press expert Ragne Kõuts-Klemm, who has assessed the secret photographs and videos published in Õhtuleht in such a way that they are not in line with journalistic ethics. In the same way, Tarmu Tammerk, a journalistic advisor, has taken the view that it is a principle that the aim is consecrated by the measure: "We needed to do a story and the story relates to children, but we followed the car and the children are like a sidekick. " So experts in journalism have assessed this course of action.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U29	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! The press has a major role to play in monitoring closely how state assets are used and in drawing attention to bottlenecks. In this case, in my opinion, the press dealt with it and dealt with it within the limits of the law, as we have read at least in the public media. What you referred to or read before you spoke about the ethics of the press was stated at the end of the sentence as public interest or public attention. If I recall correctly, the Honorable Minister has published pictures of his children on his public Facebook account without any facial covers. I noticed that the press had covered their faces in presenting these pictures. But it's not really important at this point that the press went on to exhibit children, it's the responsibility of this parent for his actions. He's taken responsibility for today. And it is not just about the car, but, as we read in the press, it was actually about using the various benefits of using our position. But I think it is exactly the same story that Martin Helme said at a press conference on the agricultural sector, especially on strawberry growers, that we are looking at how much you pay taxes, we are sending you checks. And that's what really happened. That's actually what happened! Finally, it was found that there were no more potential threats or fraud schemes in this sector than in other sectors in general, according to the tax administration. Do you realize that if you say publicly that you're giving that order to the DA's office, that means you're violating the independence of the press? Please, Honourable Minister, do you understand this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U31	Thank you for your question. You see, good questioner, you have now stepped right into the trap that society has been trying to set up through the media: that the Minister of Justice has ordered the prosecutor's office to start some sort of procedure. Hey, I'm not yesterday! I am not quite a fool, and I know very well that a politician cannot give any procedural orders to the prosecutor's office, any orders to open any proceedings or to close any proceedings. And that's not what I've done. I've never done this before to be in charge of the DA's office. The public prosecutor's office is, by law, a very clearly independent institution which independently makes all kinds of procedural decisions. At the same time, the prosecutor's office is the administration of the Ministry of Justice, and we cooperate with the prosecutor's office daily on many issues. And the fact that I'm going to ask the Attorney General for advice, legal advice, legal opinion about something, well, if you're interpreting it as some kind of order or order, I think you've gone off on some very far-flung errands with your thoughts. It cannot in any way be interpreted as an order or an order. As regards the strawberry growers mentioned in the second half of the question, this does not relate to today's subject. I can't answer the questions about strawberry growing. I'm sure you guys went through all this stuff in the summer when the strawberries were growing, so there are no strawberries right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U32	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U33	And we're getting to question four. The questioner is Jevgeni Ossinovski and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U34	Thank you. Prime Minister! You have very sympatheticly said that you are very concerned about the situation that is the second wave of the Corona. I'm worried too. But in addition to my concern, I have the expectation that a large part of the people of Estonia will share. Surely, as citizens, we all expect the government to make adequate systemic management decisions to control the virus. Now, since mid-October, we have been able to identify such a larger and out of control corona spread. It's been about a month and a half, and I want to ask you how you appreciate the adequacy of the Government of the Republic during this period. Since September, the Social Democrats have been saying that we urgently need to decide on the issue of sick days in order to reduce infection at the workplace. We have addressed you with a request that the government take a clear position on masks and communicate it unambiguously to society. On 5 November, for the first time, the government heard the forecasts that are now coming true and that we are likely to have about 200 people in hospital care during the week. These people are already sick, and it's a matter of time before they get to the hospital. But these decisions, after 5 November, at the beginning, you said that we thought, on 10 November, some decisions were taken, they entered into force on 16 November. Let's say this lightning of decision-making doesn't impress systemic action. And on the other hand, we know that one minister has been able to interview Deutsche Welles, the other has been there on the subject of the American elections, while at the same time the issues of the referendum have been formulated, it is not at all excessive to think that maybe the government's priorities have just been elsewhere. Explain how these decisions about the Corona have happened! Why do they look so bad?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U35	Thank you, Honourable Jevgeni Ossinovski. Good Evgeny, well, the question is how to look at things. You say decisions look bad. It seems to me that before you look at them, you already have a picture in front of your eyes: these are bad decisions, they are bad decisions, and so you have to say. In fact, I think that the government has been very professional, very substantive and structured. I think that for several months now, there have been different meetings between the members of the government every day, consultations, the whole government meets at least twice a week to discuss COVID issues. As you very well know, Professor Irja Lutsar, who runs the science council, always attends a government meeting on Tuesdays. A few weeks ago, Professor Peep Talving and I of the North Estonian Regional Hospital had very substantive discussions on the very subject of the mask you mentioned, but also on the question of the remdesivir about how this medicine is going. It can now be briefly said that, in the case of the sick days you were talking about, employers will pay for the second to the fifth day, from there to the sickness fund. It has been decided and will be valid for four months from 1 January. If you're asking about masks, there's a very clear message about masks. So we should look at the specific decisions that have been taken so far to stop the spread of the virus. Point one: National restrictions are the obligation to wear a mask or otherwise cover the nose and mouth in public indoors, including public transport. The obligation to wear a mask or cover the nose and mouth by other means applies to public indoors, including, Mr Ossinovski, public transport and service places, except for children aged 12 years and younger or when wearing a mask is contraindicated for health reasons. Then you don't have to wear a mask. Now forward, point two: 2 + 2 rule extends, it must be observed in all public indoors. 2 + 2 rules must be followed throughout the public interior, which means that up to two persons may move together. For example, you and I can move together, and then two meters away, there might be another person. But it doesn't apply to families. Next: in catering establishments and entertainment establishments, in places where services are provided, the current rule of 10 + 2 will remain in force. In short, there may be a maximum of ten names in one table and the next table with a maximum of 10 persons must be two metres away. Public events, meetings, cultural and entertainment events, churches, there are now new rules. In indoors, with stationary seats, there may be up to 400 persons, where there are no, up to 250 persons and up to 500 people outdoors. It is also a special requirement in Harju County and Ida-Virumaa that only half of the total volume of the room or the kapasite bed can be filled, i.e. 50%. Very important specific rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U36	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U37	Thank you. I thank you for using this time to popularize the rules of our Question Time audiences. I'm sure that's grateful. But my question, however, is a different one. It is undoubtedly possible to construct an answer to this type of question, based on the Southern Estonian proverb that I would have known that I would fall here would have put hay under it. But the thing is, actually, we knew we were going to fall in here, but we didn't put the hay under. In fact, the decisions concerning sick days should have been taken in September, rather than starting next January, when hospitals are already on the verge of being able to do so. Why didn't these decisions go on at the time? That's the question. Why was the possibility lost that, in fact, with a rather low cost of money, all the very costly restrictions on society that have been discussed here today should these schools or other institutions be affected? Undoubtedly, people get the impression that the reason is that the government has prioritised other issues, such as the same marriage referendum and the various political scandals that have been associated with the government, rather than this very important action. On my second question, I ask more specifically about masks. Professor Merits, a member of the Scientific Advisory Board, said last week's Maavaleht that already in October it was highly recommended that the issue of masks should be stepped up. This recommendation was not accepted. I know that the chairwoman of the scientific council is not a very big mask fan, to say the least. But what has happened in the meantime? Did you have to wait for such an increase in the number of infections that you changed your mind on this matter compared to the beginning of October, or what is it? It is clear that science has not fundamentally changed over this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U38	Thank you. To be honest, I have never spoken of this referendum today, but it seems to me that you are anxious to talk about this referendum on marriage. I think you're asking me twice or twice about this. It's not in my hands, it's in your hands, whether it's up to you or not. This is the Riigikogu, which must foresee it in its work or not. Now, yes, indeed, in the case of these masks, Mr Ossinovski, we can assume that if we start discussing this issue here in the Riigikogu, I think it will take a minimum of 10 hours and half of the Riigikogu says that they must be made compulsory, and the other half says that it will not. I think that in Estonian society there is about this kind of discussion in every society. But this is not a bad discussion. This is not a bad discussion! I think the mask will help prevent the spread of the virus. Helps to stop it when I'm sick and I'm not home. Although I'm supposed to be home, it's the first ridge, right, and the second is the mask in the front. And it also helps to block when someone else is sick and I have a mask on. In any case, the mask minimizes the threat either way, I think. Now, you're asking what's happened. That's a very good question. That's a good question! Of course, the question is not that the epidemiological situation has now gotten so much worse. No, the reason has always been that the point is one: wisdom has come to everyone. Point two: I have pointed out to you in the answer to the first question that we had a very serious meeting with Professor Talvik, a member of the Scientific Advisory Board, who also said and his opinion was very specific, that he supported the compulsory nature of masks. It was an interim phase, too. In my opinion, it seems to me that society still cannot, in any way, be ordered by you to take such a powerful step now. I don't know, it seems to me that the Social Democrats are still trying to find compromises and are more flexible, but you want to bang right away that masks are mandatory for everyone. We made a decision, the Minister of Social Affairs gave me a very good wording, and I don't recall it at all, but, well, that was the last limit of the recommended wearing of a mask. Last line! But in fact, it has to be said that people wear masks a lot, and that is something to be commended for. I must say thank you to people who are in public transport with a mask that goes to shopping centres and smaller shops with a mask. Very many Estonian people are wearing masks. Here in the Riigikogu, you see, everyone has masks on the balcony. So the people of Estonia are good at this. What else changed? The change is that we're not just talking about wearing a mask anymore. You said I wanted to popularize the national restrictions that the government has decided. But I told you, and you heard this: there is an obligation to cover your nose and mouth in public indoors, and you can do it with a scarf or puff. It is also a new aspect that we read it to wear a mask. But really, now it's an obligation, it has to be fulfilled, and it's being controlled. But once again, thank you, Mr Ossinovski, for asking this question. And really, thank you to the people of Estonia, who are doing this very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U39	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I have a further question about the government's decisions to manage the epidemiological situation. But more specifically, I have a question about the vaccination plan, which was discussed by the government yesterday. As we know, Estonia has joined the agreement on the common vaccine portfolios of all seven European Unions, which is very nice. But we have to take into account that no new vaccine has yet been authorised by the U.S. Food and Medicines Agency or the European Medicines Agency. At the same time, the news about the vaccine is extremely encouraging. My question is more specifically how much your government's decisions have taken into account the objective that these promising vaccines will reach Estonia as soon as possible. What's the matter? According to government communication messages, it is likely that the first batch will arrive at the beginning of January. At the same time, it may well be known that the authorisation of the European Medicines Agency is due in mid-December. By the way, Germany is planning to introduce the vaccines as early as mid-December. It is true that Pfizer's partner BioNTech is located in Germany. But I ask you if you have discussed the question in this key so that logistics can be organised so that this supply chain is such that the manufacturer supplies and then distribution begins. Would it be conceivable that the manufacturer will be able to supply the vaccine already in December and as soon as the Agency's authorisation is in place? Not the way you've planned to get a permit and then be delivered. Do you understand the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U41	Thank you, Mr. Sõerd. I always understand your questions. And I also understood your prerogative. You actually wanted to ask this question under question 12, but very likely, given that the questions are very long and substantive, we will not get to that. So you and Mr Ossinovski have just worked well together like a snack! You got caught with your question. And I think that is a very important and important question. My answer to you, point one, is: yes, yesterday we made this decision and I think it is an important decision. As far as we have the opportunity to mitigate these risks, we will do so so that we have at least some kind of vaccine if this vaccine is in place: if this vaccine gets all the permits and gets to the market. The truth is that the European Commission has said that it is negotiating and has reached an agreement on four of the seven vaccines that I know of. Quite on-going and very operationally these decisions are made. Now that's the answer to Ossinovski's question. If he says we're always dealing with this marriage referendum, we're actually very busy deciding things. We only have a few days. If the European Commission calls to Estonia from Brussels and asks whether or not you will join the agreement, the Minister of Social Affairs will come to the office immediately and the office will decide whether or not we will join. Really, we've made a lot of decisions. AstraZeneca, right, we have joined it, Johnson & Johnson and Pfizer, only yesterday was there really a discussion, and CureVac too. But in addition to these, we gave the assurance that Estonia would join all of them at point one. Point two: The important thing is who we give the vaccine to. As you say, speed costs. It is certainly necessary to give the first vaccination to people working at the front line, such as medical staff, nurses, hospital doctors, staff and clients of nursing homes, certainly the police and border guard as a front line in the field of internal security. We certainly wish to vaccinate the chronically ill other than the nursing homes, as I said. At the same time, we have said that the Estonian Government does not support compulsory vaccination. You did not say that, and you could certainly tell me what your position is afterwards. The government's position is that we do not support compulsory vaccination. We have also said that in 2021 the people of Estonia will not have to pay for the vaccine. Now, what you said was that logistics needs to be established as soon as possible. We had the last European Council, we are unfortunately doing the Council every two weeks by videoconferencing, and there everyone emphasised logistics. As you said, logistics must be fast, supply chains must be in place. No one must rely on the principle that anyone in front of this man must receive this vaccine. This is important, it will also contribute to economic recovery. But, Mr Sõerd, still the most important thing: security and security. We need to get the relevant permits and certificates, only then can the vaccine be offered to Estonian people. It's not like we can make some kind of Potemkin village here. It is still very important that there is safety, that the vaccine does not impair human health in any way. These studies must be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U42	Next Question, Number 5. The questioner is Signe Kivi and is answered by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The birth of a child is a special moment in the parents' lives, and it begins to grow into a family. Unfortunately, as a result of the spread of the corona virus, the possibility that the child's father or other supporter is so natural has now become at risk. This week, an article was published in the Daily Paper and a petition was initiated to allow fathers and other supporters of birth to the hospital. It also wants rapid and effective prenatal testing of fathers and other supporters of birth and clear rules to protect both hospital staff and families from corona. We know that hospitals have different rules. For example, the hospital in Hiiumaa is not allowed to include supporters in childbirth since 6 November. At East Tallinn Central Hospital, the sponsor may participate in childbirth from 16 November, but must leave immediately after the birth of the child. This means that the family ward service has been suspended and after delivery the mother must remain alone in the hospital with the child. Professor Irja Lutsar has been emphasising since spring: we must all learn to live with this virus. But let's learn! Here's my question. What is the position of the Minister, whether a common clear code of conduct should be given, or whether it is better for hospitals to lay down their own protocol? Does this mean that in some hospitals, however, it is possible for parents to spend the most important moments of their lives together and not in others? If possible, can a child give birth to such a hospital? Finally, are there personal protective equipment available in maternity hospitals, so that in the coming months neither medics nor families should be concerned?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U44	Thank you very much for the very important questions. I admit that I have dealt with them myself and discussed the same issues with the Ministry, the Health Board and hospitals. The truth is that the vast majority of hospitals, really with the exception of Hiiumaa, also allow a man to give birth, in some cases also another person whose mother wishes to be born there, is a family member of one of my supporters, so as not to be in these difficult moments, but I would say, even in happy moments alone. This is definitely the line that we support. I'm sure it's important. Childbirth, this whole moment in a person's life, I think, in any case, both mother and father's life, is invaluable and, as long as we can guarantee it as safe and as supportive as possible of the family, this should be done. However, there are really different approaches to being together in the family ward after birth. I myself have also been in contact with a number of hospital managers in particular, as well as with the head of the maternity department, on what are these main concerns, which are these issues. One issue is undoubtedly linked to the rapid tests. There's no problem with no personal protective equipment. There are adequate personal protective equipment in hospitals, there are enough in maternity departments and there are also public resources. So far, no hospital has approached the country to get them from that reserve. Of course, if it did, just as the Prime Minister introduced the vaccine-related process, we would take this request to the government very quickly, and I believe that the government will make a positive decision. But now, in this case, I am not talking about antibody tests or antigens, but about PCR tests, which are really little available. Instead of more traditional tests, they are able to determine whether a person is a carrier of infection or not by a four or five-hour interval, sometimes a couple of hours. In their case, supply difficulties are not only in Estonia but worldwide, as individual producers have been authorised to sell them. If there were more tests that would allow rapid testing of men on the ground and other supporters of childbirth, this would certainly be an opportunity for hospitals to change this system and the current arrangements. But there isn't a chance, and you don't always know if the PCR test you've done before is accurate. We know the antigen test doesn't give a very clear answer. It brings out the contagion of a carrier for the first five days, but it doesn't give us any real certainty. Some people may also be in the presymptomatic phase on the sixth or seventh day. Hospitals simply do not want to take risks and do not want more people to stay in their centers than is strictly necessary. That's why it's been said that you can spend a few hours together during childbirth and after childbirth in the family circle, but then the woman goes to the room alone with the baby. I also confirm that, in certain cases, of course, exceptions are made in the case of a child with a weaker health, for example, in the case of a child in need of intensive care. In such cases, of course, hospitals will meet you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U45	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you on this matter. I will conclude on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U46	Next question, No. 6. The questioner is Heidy Purga and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U47	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! During yesterday alone, we received a number of news reports, which have been discussed here today in Question Time. There's a mess in school arrangements. I am thinking of the gymnastics of the petition initiated by Jüri Gymnasium students are concerned about their future in education, and also about Hendrik Agur, Director of Kohtla-Järve's worried cry for help, so please do not put all the students in our school for distance training. He's asking for a distinction he probably can't have. These schools try to do their best by seeking support from the Ministry of Education and Research. At the same time, the Ministry of Education and Research has not been able to formulate the definition of e-learning either for the time of crisis or for any other time. Schools are very confused as to whether classes take place at school or at a distance, and university education coordinators are hearing that they are giving up. Throughout the summer period, when there were first warnings that there would be another viral wave, no proposals were made. In addition, the school leaders are waiting for a message about the exams to be heard that they will be cancelled again or will take place on a voluntary basis. When will there be a specific message for schools, students and parents, what will be the future coordinated and furnished learning arrangements?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U48	Thank you, Mrs. Heidy Purga. I think this is a very serious issue and we have already addressed it in Question Time today. But I certainly thank you for the opportunity that we can continue this discussion here. Some of my colleagues in the European Union say that the Corona virus crisis is a crisis of the century. The crisis of the century! I was just looking at a very interesting religious discussion with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. He said that during his 15-year career as German chancellor he had not had as much time as the one caused by COVID-19. So there could also be a letter from the honourable Riigikogu verbatim that we are in fact still in a very difficult health crisis, which has also caused the economic crisis. We want to get out of this as soon as possible; it is not our wish that we are in this crisis all the time. As I said earlier, in reply to Mr Sõerdi's question on vaccines, I believe that it is the vaccines that provide a way out of the crisis. In education, I think we have actually sent very clear and concrete messages throughout this crisis. But whatever message we have sent in the field of education, it has raised quite a number of further questions. This is understandable because education affects us all either through children, through ourselves, through grandchildren. So that makes sense. Today we have said to the education sector: there will be a transition from Tuesday this week to Friday this week. In Ida-Virumaa and Harjumaa, the 10th, 11th, 12th classes of schools must be taken to distance training. Why are we doing this? We are doing this so that these students can return to contact training as soon as possible. We have made it clear that January 10, the last day of Christmas and New Year's holidays, is the final date. From 11 January onwards, it will be possible to proceed as usual with contact training. We very much hope and believe that this is possible. The virus shows very bad signs in Estonia today. The aim is not to lock down society, not even partially, so that we do not close down primary school, as was said earlier here. I think it was Mrs Kersna who spoke very seriously about the great concern that parents and children had in the spring about mental health. In order not to happen, we must make an effort today, at first a little less, not to take a big step at one point and to lock down the whole education. That's not what we want, is it? And, of course, certain differences must also be made during this three-week period, such as consultations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U49	Heidy Purga, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! The shut-down of schools already last spring has led to a decline in educational success, and it has now been proven. If it goes so far that we do not know how long this period may now be extended during the second viral wave, can it happen that students may be left to repeat their class course if they fail to complete their studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U51	Thank you. I think that all Estonian teachers are making an effort, and I see that there are also many in this Chamber who are involved in education, and that Jevgeni has been a minister, and we are all making an effort to ensure that we can still provide good education even in this difficult situation resulting from distance learning. It's complicated. I fully agree that mental health has suffered. Many students actually dropped out of the education system in the spring. We know that either they failed or there were other reasons why they could not continue their studies. And, of course, it worked very hard, very hard on their learning success. If you are now asking whether it has been discussed whether the class course would be repeated throughout Estonia or, I don't know, Harju- and Raplamaa- or Ida-Virumaa-No this has not been discussed. You'll be the first to say it. I hope that today there will be no briefing under the heading "Heidy Purga: Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa students will be able to repeat the class course." Well, there's no way we want that. I think we have to work hard to make sure that doesn't happen. In my opinion, Estonian teachers, who have really shown themselves to be the best teachers in the world, as teachers of the best students in the world, who are Estonian students, will do everything to ensure that we can also provide as much education as possible to the 10th, 11th and 12th grades by means of distance learning. And once again, it's a temporary stop, but it takes three weeks for contact training to stop. I'm sorry! Isn't it good to hear? I thought you were kind of showing off. Oh, I can hear you! Got it! This three weeks we want to do everything we can to make it really temporary and on 11 January we can go back to schools. But yes, I agree that in the meantime quite a lot depends on all of us, the way we act. As I also said, one of the main messages this week is: if you're in close contact, let alone if you're sick or infected, but completely asymptomatic, you have to be home. You can't leave the room. When you get out of the room, you're going to infect people. This R still has to be brought down. We need to get a chance to see that we've developed this, say, breakage of the infections. This is what we are all working for today, and we are doing these restrictions. In my opinion, however, we are maintaining this balance, which is linked to health and lives, quite well at the moment. This is essential and it also relates to the economy, as well as to mental health and education. This balance must be maintained every day. And every day, the vaccine comes closer. I thank you very much for raising this important issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U52	Thank you. Liina Kersnal and Heidy Purgal have their hands up. Are there any procedural questions? Yes, please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U53	Thank you very much, Mr President. My colleague, Heidy Purga, asked the Prime Minister whether the government had considered such an option that, in the event of a major decline in academic success, the student could repeat the class. In his reply, the Prime Minister put Heidy Purga's position in his mouth as if he wanted to leave all classes in Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa to repeat the class. This was obviously not a correct interpretation. Would you please draw the Prime Minister's attention to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U54	Thank you. Unfortunately, this is not a procedural question, but of course it is welcome and welcome if the questions are precise and the answers are precise. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U55	Thank you for the floor. For the sake of fact, I repeat that this really was not my argument, but my question of continuing to repeat the academic year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U56	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U57	Thank you. Prime Minister! I will continue with my earlier question. You put your views in my mouth too: it's like the Social Democrats want to turn it all off. That is absolutely not true. What we've been talking about has actually been exactly the opposite. In order to avoid very burdensome national and life-long restrictions, it is reasonable, in the context of a corona epidemic, to make timely management decisions so that this need does not arise. Now, for objective reasons, we have reached a situation where preventive decisions taken previously have not produced the desired result. Whether the situation is really bad, bad or worrying, we can make these assessments, and we will mostly give them afterwards, if you can see that the second wave is passing. And, of course, there is also a great deal of uncertainty in this second wave in the sense that every decision and its impact cannot be measured scientifically. But I think it is important, however, to reflect all the decisions that have been made and the steps that have been taken so far to do this better in the future. I ask about clear messages, as is the title of the question. How do you assess how clear the messages from the government and government authorities about wearing masks have been since the end of August and ending with today? Do you see evolution in this? In the meantime, some authorities said that it was absolutely necessary to bear, make it compulsory, others said that no, there is almost nothing to do, think for yourself whether it makes sense or not. In what way has it also contributed to the polarisation that we see in society today on this issue? I am also thinking about the mass events planned for Friday. How clear do you keep these messages?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U58	Thank you. I would first like to say with regard to the previous question, which was procedural, that I certainly do not think that the President of the Riigikogu has any reason to upset him. On the contrary, I supported Heidy Purga. I said he hadn't thought of it that way. Don't look for some big extension to keep people from repeating the class. So I think we should understand what the answer is. With these masks, the messages have actually been clear all along. The government has said that masks are recommended, we have said that this could be a social norm. We have said that this is the last limit in the recommendation phase, but we have always stressed that masks are recommended. This situation changed yesterday. This situation changed yesterday, masks are now mandatory in certain places. These certain places, where masks are compulsory, relate for example, as I said, to public transport, related shops, other public indoors. There's a mask mandatory. It is also a very specific message that children who are 12 or younger do not have to wear masks. Those people with certain medical indications can say I can't wear a mask, and they don't have to. This is very clear. But I also told Mr Ossinovski before that the debate on masks has actually been going on from the beginning. From spring on, there has been a debate as to whether it has been scientifically proven that wearing a mask protects me or protects my companion, depending on where to look. I think the government has got a very good view of this, as I said, also from the scientific council, which says that masks should be compulsory. We also say that not only does the mask protect, but it may also be some kind of fabric, some kind of textile that covers the mouth and nose in public indoors. We have also said that for people who are struggling, they have to make up for the mask, it is a disposable mask or a one-time mask. I heard some very positive news that just came in. One municipality, the city of Tallinn wants to help those who are uninsured or struggling to cope. The state is also helping and I believe that very many local authorities are also contributing. So in this sense the message has been specific: it was recommended, now it is mandatory. It is true that there is also supervision of what the Health Board does according to the law, but it can ask the Police and Border Guard Board to do so in an official capacity. But here I think it takes a reasonable attitude that a policeman is a helper, a supporter who gives a person a mask if he doesn't have one for some reason. Actually, that's the way the police are acting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U59	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U60	Next question, No 7, posed by Hanno Pevkur. He is answered by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U61	Thank you. Mr. Social Minister! As the Prime Minister will certainly listen, I believe that both of you, as athletic people, will be thinking along and helping to unthink the limitations that came yesterday or the day before yesterday. In particular, I am talking about the level of public sport, the rules in force in amateur sport, which the sport community is bound to expect. The rules currently contain this sentence: "Therefore, in the case of sports games, the training of the teams participating in the adult league, the first league and the young Estonian championships will continue to be allowed according to the size of the team that has been internationally approved. In the same recreational sport and folk league teams and group trainings, the limitation of 10 people must be taken into account." I agree that in the gym and all group trainings carried out in so-called individual areas, the limitation of ten people is even in no way understandable. But when we talk about team areas, basketball, which is definitely close to the Prime Minister's previous life, is five against five at practice, but a handball playing against seven against seven can't be played with new rules. But the competitions have entered into force on Monday, as if they were allowed. So the races can be held by playing seven against seven, but handball players can't exercise. And if you look at it from a health point of view, five tables of chessmen are certainly a relatively safe environment, even six or seven tables of chessmen looking at each other across the table are relatively safe. It's possible to disperse the tables. But the difference between basketball and handball in this form is not reasonable, too much if, for example, rugby brothers can noise outside in significantly larger groups. In other words, is it also meant to be able to provide for the health of sportsmen in group training in areas with larger teams than basketball?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U62	Thank you for your question. Of course, all these limitations are somewhat restrictive and inevitably result in complications, making training more difficult. But we have also discussed them with the cultural field, with the sport sector. For example, the group limit referred to does not apply to professional and semi-professional activities, including youth sports and teams participating in the various Estonian title competitions. In addition to the competitions, this exception also ensures the possibility of exercising on a professional and semi-professional level, in the case of football, basketball, handball, court hockey, volleyball and ice hockey. The truth is that when it comes to the so-called traditional group of enthusiasts who want to rent a gym or gym, to do larger trainings there, they really do have the 10th limit. But for larger halls, for larger rooms, it is possible to accommodate these groups more, severally. For example, if there is a large athletics hall, there is one group of ten, where the tutor keeps a certain distance with others, as well as another group of ten with his supervisor. Similarly, it is possible to organise the work successfully in the gyms in such a way that people in the halls are scattered, practiced in different groups. The point is, indeed, that these groups do not come into contact with each other, that it is not possible to go to wardrobe or other rooms together, where there is inevitably a great deal of close contact, communication and there may be no guarantee of maintaining a distance of two metres. That is the content of the orders at the moment. Of course, there are certainly places that you can say that the set of rules could be more precise, could be more detailed. And these rules have been changed by the government, if necessary, on an ongoing basis. As far as I am aware, there has been no proposal from the Ministry of Culture or from the sports sector to make these corrections. If they come, I'm sure we'll discuss them. At the moment, as I have pointed out, we have, in our opinion, made a reasonable compromise, giving the opportunity to continue to operate in the gyms, to engage in individual areas, and specifically to professional or semi-professional athletes in larger groups as well, and without a 50% requirement for performance, to carry out both competitions and trainings. From this point of view, it can be said that Estonia has certainly been a mild and more supportive country in terms of the rules of sport, not a non-closure state. This has already been done in a very large number of regions. But if there are concrete proposals to change the organisation, either through the Estonian Olympic Committee or through the Ministry of Culture, then, as I have indicated, the government will of course be happy to discuss them. At least on the basis of initial feedback, I feel that no major bottlenecks have emerged in the field of sport. Rather, there have really been questions, as the discussion in the Chamber shows here, relating to the concepts of contact learning and distance learning and so on. Surely the new Minister for Education and Science will take action today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U63	Hanno Pevkur, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U64	Thank you. It is certainly necessary to clarify this, particularly in the case of sportsmen. At present, it is the national athletes who are in an unequal position. Football players can bounce against each other outside without restrictions and theoretically spread the virus. But for example, volleyball players who have a network between them can't make crowdsports because the game is six against six. And so is the handball, where the game is seven against seven. It's just that I'm trying to understand from a health point of view how, for example, playing five-on-five basketball games, where there's direct physical contact between players, is less safe than, for example, a volleyball playing six against six, or a handball that actually has physical contact with seven against seven. I'm just asking about outdoor areas, like football, where folk sport is allowed. And if trainings are not allowed under the current regime, then competitions are also allowed at the level of folk sports or amateur sports, it also seems strange. You can't hang out with a bunch of people all the time, but you can play a game with the team. So maybe I can give you this idea, which concerns more specifically the so-called sports paper from the government, where it is the people's sports, or amateur sports and league teams, that are surrounded indoors by ten people, so that perhaps it would be reasonable to raise this limit to at least 20 people. Then all groups will be able to continue their training. Competitions are allowed. But I'll write you exactly what I mean. The Olympic Committee will certainly meet this week at the level of the Executive Committee, and that is where we will also discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U65	Thank you very much for your question. I think it was more of a suggestion. I think that any member of the Riigikogu and, of course, the head of the sports association can submit proposals in writing to both the Ministry of Culture and the Health Board, who can assess whether they can be taken into account safely or not. The current arrangements are traditionally in force for two weeks. Every two weeks, the government decides whether to extend the restrictions or to change anything. If necessary, changes shall also be made on an ongoing basis. In the case of sport, I'll bring that comparison again, that's true, if you compare volleyball and basketball playing in the hall, then volleyball is safer. But if there's more company, more people who later go to the bathrooms and other places together, there's more close contacts. This tenth limit is naturally arbitrary, it is not science-based, that the right limit is 9 or 11 or 12 or 10. Certain restrictions, certain measures are simply a general measure of distance and support a measure to reduce close contacts. And in that view, the limit is 10 at the moment. Whether Estonia's epidemiological situation allows it to be raised later, or whether it needs to be reduced, is indicated by time. Current infection numbers, for example, today's number clearly does not offer excessive optimism here. But, of course, we'll do our best to be in a better position in a few weeks. Now this example of the competition you brought. Well, once again: in the main, we are talking about both professional and semi-professional athletes and both competitions and trainings are allowed. When we talk about the level of enthusiasts, I can't say I can be inaccurate about the number of amateurs' competitions that are not subject to this restriction, which cannot be postponed, temporarily canceled, given precisely the state of infection. I know a lot of amateur athletes who have said that they have simply decided to cancel group training until the end of the year and come back to them in the new year. This is purely because it contributes to preventing the spread of the virus. Sporting activities are not such a priority for them that they are not serving bread, but they are side activities that can also be temporarily replaced by running in the forest and soon hopefully by skiing, gym or otherwise by training alone. So if there are any specific bottlenecks that you consider to be a problem, then of course you can send your proposals in writing, we can evaluate them, discuss them. I repeat that these arrangements are currently prepared in cooperation with different ministries, these are the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as the State Chancellery. We have considered that freedom in the field of sport, culture and entrepreneurship would be more or less reasonably guaranteed. It's not possible to afford everything a hundred potentials, but we don't want to turn anything 100 percent to another extreme. At the moment, the balance point has been found. This also applies to exceptions granted to schools and other educational institutions, especially in the field of teaching, as well as to sports training. But it's not wise or doable to set everything free, to make exceptions for the rest of your life.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U66	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question consists of two parts. The first part of the question is driven by the statements made by the Prime Minister. It's like we're supposed to be happy that the kids get back to school on 11 January. This means that a possible gap in the learning process seems small at first and can be smoothed out. But is there any knowledge in your department today that we will not have a spring wave that could force schools to go to distance school again? The second part of the question is driven by Mr Pevkur's question. Who do you classify as youth sport? I mean, if athletes train under the aegis of the Union and the sub-union is part of the Olympic Committee, they train in training groups that participate each month in cups, go to championships and international competitions, whether or not they are limited to ten people. Or are they called semi-professional young athletes who can train and not follow this ten-person limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U68	Thank you very much for the questions. I'll answer in a row. The first half concerned a possible second or, in fact, a third wave. Of course, it is fair to say that the situation is changing very dynamically and quickly. Two months ago, Estonia's infection rate was ten times lower than today. Then many of the restrictions imposed today seemed obviously unnecessary and we hoped that we would not reach them. In fact, here we are. We have gradually tightened these restrictions, and many other countries have gone down the same road. Estonia is still a very mild country and, in fact, a country with a low level of infection in European terms. I'd like to keep both and, of course, improve the situation. How long can these limitations last in schools? Of course, the goal is to get this clear angle of climb to hold, to get it stable and then to move down so that we do not have news about how one or the other hospital has to close the scheduled treatment instead of the peaceful and fun Christmas news, because there is simply no more capacity to accept other than COVID-19 patients. Similarly, such a situation would also lead to a wider spread of intra-hospital infection, as we have unfortunately seen in several neighbouring countries and have also seen in Estonia during the spring crisis. So, actually, predicting exactly the spring right now is ungrateful. We are working to ensure that, by spring, certain high-risk groups are guaranteed an anti-coronavirus vaccine. We have, as the Prime Minister said, a total of seven options for this. And indeed the European Union, or more specifically the European Commission, has thought about further agreements; they must then be considered separately. But at the moment, many of them are already promising. Indeed, a marketing authorisation is expected in mid-December or at the end of December. But, of course, this decision is for the European Medicines Agency to make, after which we can start taking our own steps. All these supply issues and logistics issues are addressed through continuous work and communication with the European Commission and, in fact, directly with producers. In several cases, logistics has been resolved in the contract in such a way that the manufacturer is obliged to supply the vaccines to the Member State. With regard to the second part of the question, i.e. on the side of sport, the Ministry of Culture can, of course, tell you the exact details of who goes and who does not go under the activities of young sports schools and sports clubs and who participate in the competition system of sports federations, which clubs exactly are there, which activities. Indeed, the explanatory memorandum to this arrangement sets out them in general terms. Youth sport is, as I said, the activities of sports schools and sports clubs that participate in the competition system of the Sports Association, including the Estonian Championship. The Ministry of Culture and, if necessary, the Estonian Olympic Committee can certainly say the exact clubs, precise categories and areas. There are certain differences that really apply, just as previously referred to professional and semi-professional athletes, for whom the Ministry and the EOK have requested certain special arrangements to ensure that they are maintained and raised athletic levels.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U69	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U70	Question 8, asks Riina Sikkut and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U71	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Today, there has already been a lot of talk about school distance learning, reimbursement of sick days and the compulsory nature of the mask, either on time or late, whether for a reason or not. It is difficult to judge why the government makes such decisions as it does. You have confirmed that the government meets several times a week, works hard, discusses. But a week ago, in this very hall, Mart Helme, relatively emotionally sheds light on how government decisions concerning restrictions are made. The expression he used is "positive resonance." That populists want to make popular decisions, i.e. to impose restrictions that have positive resonance in society, that's what I understand. But if people want restrictions, it's a reaction to what's happening to the spread of the virus: how many people are sick, how many deaths there are. It is too late to react with restrictions on what has already happened. I was surprised, for example, how the package of last restrictions was agreed. I think it was Mailis Reps who explained on the radio that there were meetings with restaurants and representatives of the entire catering sector and that for several days there were intense discussions on what would be a good solution, and that it was achieved that up to ten people were allowed and that there had to be at least two metres between tables. Undoubtedly, some restrictions on the parties may be more appealing than others. I think I like restrictions that are less restrictive. The question is whether these restrictions will have an effect if they actually restrict people's behaviour less. My question: is it only right to make popular decisions in the management of the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U72	Thank you. I think that there is never much to talk about this very difficult health crisis and coronavir, you said that much has already been said. I think it is perfectly understandable why we are talking about this today: it concerns our lives, it concerns our health. This, unfortunately, also concerns the death of people who have left their lives for the corona virus, a dead COVID-19 disease. Now, can restrictions be made by making popular decisions? I can tell you, Rina Sikkut, honourable member of the Riigikogu, looking at you today in Question Time, that the government has not pursued any popularity when it has considered whether we are making decisions in one way, another way or third. If I heard correctly, you referred to Mart Helme, who has been a member of this government, basically, from the moment the corona virus appeared, and practically to this day. For a few weeks now, there has been a new Minister of the Interior. But Mart Helme has also been at the table all along, always taking the Corona virus issue very seriously. Just like the whole government. I cannot bring in any member of the government who has said that this is not an issue or that we are discussing it or that, as you said, we are still making popular decisions. No, it's never been a measure. The measure tree has been the health and life of people and their protection. The measure tree is today that we can do as much as we need to so that we can keep our lives open, for example, in the field of education. Yeah, that's true, that's not 100 percent possible anymore. Today we cannot say that one hundred percent can be given scheduled treatment. I just checked the information from the Health Board during Question Time. Krista Fischer, a member of the scientific council, has said that there may be more than 50 to 100 people in hospitals in the coming week. That would be a very big problem. There are 163 people in hospitals today, and if you add 100 points... Then we're not talking about having 30% of the planned treatment, but more. These limitations and very clear messages issued by the government have always been made in cooperation with the Scientific Advisory Board, always in cooperation with top specialists and the Health Board. I certainly want to acknowledge the Health Board here, but also the Police and Border Guard Board, who basically call through close contacts every day, call the sick and say you have to stay at home. This is exactly how all members of the government have behaved during this corona virus: very responsibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U73	Riina Sikkut, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U74	Thank you. Undoubtedly, the people of Estonia have done well and both the authorities and the government have done a lot of work. The question is which horizon to take, which criteria to make decisions on. The crisis cannot be managed solely by making popular decisions. Soon we will be discussing Estonia's long-term strategy in this Chamber, what we are doing until 2035. We discussed whether to take a short or a long perspective here a year ago in relation to the second pillar. Actually, you can't just watch today and tomorrow. Thinking about taking high schools to a distance study debate, I wonder whether, if you close hobbies or restaurants or entertainment facilities, someone will come to the government tomorrow or the next week to claim compensation for economic damage. If you send high schools to distance school, it is unlikely that worse exams or unsolicited university admissions will be something that will be actually demanded of the government in years' time. So, on the basis of economic criteria, looking at the state's wallet and the short term, I understand why such a decision was made, but I do not think that this is the right criterion for deciding on the resolution of the crisis. Why it is the government's task to explain and explain why this is the case and why it is not. Does the disease spread more in schools than in hobbies where people come together across the city or rural municipality? Does the disease spread more in schools than in transport? Will closing schools have a lower economic impact than making any other decision? These are issues that need to be clarified, and people understand and are also prepared to follow the restrictions. So, how do you explain taking high schools to distance school? What criteria did this decision take into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U75	The government has to decide. Not only to worry, not only to consider, but at one point to take responsibility and decide. Today's government has shown its ability to decide in this crisis. I think, as I have said, that thanks to the scientific council, thanks to the people of Estonia, but also to the government, we were able to pass through the first crisis. The Riigikogu also made its contribution here, a very important contribution. What's the horizon like you asked? I think that with this virus, there are some questions about the horizon for the next few days. We're not gonna see what happens in a month, two or three. What are we working for? We are working to ensure that this vaccine really comes as soon as possible. We're trying to get out there and not lock down the whole community. Estonia is currently one of the most open and less restricted societies even after these Tuesday decisions. Our infection rates, which are also on the ECDC website, are not currently the highest in the European Union, thanks to God, rather at the bottom. But there is a danger, a very high risk, that if we didn't make those decisions today or rather didn't do it yesterday, the multiplier will go up very quickly. The economic damage we always take into account when making any decisions about what it means for Estonia's employment. Our wish has been for the people of Estonia to be on the payroll so that Estonia's employment is as high as possible, as the two crises can be: in the health crisis and in the economic crisis. Now, are we responsible, as you asked, for the poorer test results? How is this responsible? I'm sorry, but for three weeks, we're gonna do this pen in high school so the students can get back to the school for contact training. It is no secret that if we did not make any decisions today, no restrictions, we would fear that we would be very quickly faced with the question of whether all schools should be closed, as was the case in the spring. As you say, the mental health aspect is also very important. Spiritual health really deteriorated back then, indeed deteriorated. Very many students dropped out at all; they were no longer in the school system. Now go on: Is it more of a transport or a school infection? These are very arbitrary comparisons, I think. We need to make science-based decisions, Mrs. Sikkut, listen to what the scientific council says, listen to what the Health Board says. And that's what we've done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U76	Thank you. Mart Helme, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U77	Since my name was mentioned, I should be entitled to my own reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U78	Unfortunately, there's no way in the round of questions and answers. That is when the reports of the sitting mention the name of someone. But now the question is on Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister. The Minister of Education, who had already resigned, spoke about various plans early in autumn. One version that went through for a long time and was confirmed by the public was that when there are coronal cases in schools, risks are mitigated on a class-by-class basis. I'd like to know at what point this plan was completely thrown off the table. And did the discussion on these plans also address the possibility for schools to take contact learning to exchanges in order to reduce the contact between students? Did we discuss how we can organise a movement to make people less exposed? Was it considered that students could wear masks in classes, and so-called class-based risk management? Or did those odds go completely off the table, and when they got off, what were the reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U80	Thank you. I do not know what member of the Riigikogu Mart Helme wanted to say when he raised his hand. But I have a chance to answer now, and I think he wanted to say something to Riina Sikkut, who spoke of Mart Helme and populist decisions. I repeat once again: no member of the government who has been in office, including Mart Helme, and no current member of the government has made decisions during the corona virus based on the fact that this is now a populist decision and gives popular support. It has not been a measure. The measure has been health, lives, economy, mental health, education. Now I will answer your question, Mr Kruuse. First, on September 1, when the schools began, it was immediately announced that the schools themselves would decide how they would cope during the corona virus. What are the dispersal requirements, what are the disinfection requirements, how schools operate, when close contacts occur or even more difficult when COVID-positive answers are coming in, how then there will be a learning activity going home, who does not go home, how they go to school. In some schools it was that for a few weeks there were some classes at home and a few weeks others. Those were school decisions, we've been through this phase. Unfortunately, we're in phase two today. We're in a phase where you can read these news right away, I have to answer here, I don't have this chance, the Health Board says at its press conference that we might be in a situation where 10 to 100 people more than today or 50 to 100 people more than today. And it already has a very large, very large impact on the closure of scheduled treatment. So we are in a phase today where we are trying to ensure that the gymnasts get back to school as soon as possible and that we do not close primary school and that the scheduled treatment can work. That is why we cannot go on the path we have taken. We need some concrete steps, clear restrictions. These restrictions have now been imposed by the government: last week certain restrictions, this Tuesday certain restrictions. And now this regulation in some parts applies until we review it in two weeks. For example, this same return to upper secondary school contact education takes place on 11 January with a very clear and very specific limit of three weeks. And children with special educational needs are allowed contact training, consultations are allowed to prepare foreign language exams. Here, too, there has been a rather flexible approach as flexible as this health crisis can be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U81	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U82	Next Question, Number 9. The author of the question is Urve Tiidus and Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Tomorrow it will be nine months from the day that Reuters published an article by the English journalist John Kemp, whose main message was: "Governments, entrepreneurs and workers will be encouraged to live with a new threat while maintaining a normal life as much as possible instead of overreacting. " It was February 26th. The spread of the new virus was then restricted only in very few countries, but confirmed isolated cases of infection were already reported worldwide. By summer, John Kemp's statement that we need to learn to live with this virus, a popular liemotif in the mouth of both professionals and politicians. Along with the development of vaccines, countries began to practice different rules to control the virus. These rules extended from extremely strict and personal freedoms from totally restrictive requirements to very liberal ones. Estonia started to establish rules according to the recommendations of scientists and other professionals at the time. Closure of schools, travel restrictions, cancellation of cultural events, empty city streets. This was an experience that no one could have imagined, and therefore there were restrictions that seemed initially to be a wink roll. My question is motivated by the warnings issued yesterday by the Government of the Republic. In the event of non-compliance with the restrictions on the non-proliferation of the virus, the State has the right to implement administrative sanctions. The maximum amount of the penalty shall be EUR 9600, which may also be fixed several times. The question to you, Prime Minister, is: how and who will determine this penalty and can such a fine be expected of people without masks on the street?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U84	This COVID-19 has been a very complex and difficult problem for our entire society, for the whole of Europe, for the whole world. You are absolutely right about that, Mrs. Tiidus. Who's going to assign these penitentiaries or fines? First of all, I would like to say that I trust the Estonian police, who are most likely to be in charge of the request of the Health Board, and more specifically the request for assistance must be supervised. I trust the Estonian police and I doubt that the Estonian police will go today, I don't know, to the public car and say: "You have no mask on you, citizen Jüri. Here's a receipt, 9600 euros. "I'm sure the Estonian police will go to a person without a mask and say, "Please put on a mask, it will help prevent the virus. If this person answers him that I'm 12 or younger, he doesn't have to put the mask on. If this person answers to that policeman that I have medical contraindications, he doesn't have to put on a mask. I think a lot of people say yes, of course I will, but you see, I forgot. Some people might say I don't have a mask. But as far as I know, the Estonian police have taken the direction that they will take the mask and give it to the person, lend a hand, support him. And I think the police are doing the right thing. Of course, you're absolutely right, we have to look at what the bill says. But we have to understand that we still have to take a reasonable approach. After all, the aim is not to fine people and collect, as you said, terrible fines in the country's cup. The goal is still that we can say that the spread of the virus is blocked, that the virus is spreading less, and that is why we do not need to talk to you in this Question Time about some, other or third restrictions. Thank you very much, Urve Tiidus, for this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U85	Thank you. I thank all my good colleagues very much for their questions, and I also thank the members of the government for their answer. But unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we must also leave time for a hall call. Our briefing today is over. Thank you again!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U86	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 9th working week session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U87	President Kersti Kaljulaid, including by Decision No 656 of 25 November, has appointed Anneli Ott as Minister of State Administration. Next, we will hear his oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U88	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U89	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with today's sitting. There is an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U90	75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 26.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U91	Attention! Clarification of the agenda. We will continue reading the first 250 reading of the draft Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act that was not completed yesterday. And I would like to ask for a presentation by Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U92	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 16 November, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 250. Just as yesterday in the big hall, the initiator's representative introduced the substance of the draft to us. The draft extends the range of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit and increases the amount of unemployment benefit. At our committee meeting, we also heard the position of the Government of the Republic. The representative of the Government of the Republic noted that the Government discussed the draft initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party at its meeting on 22 October and decided not to support the draft in its proposed form. He explained that in order to increase the social protection of the unemployed, the Riigikogu adopted the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Amendment to the Unemployment Insurance Act this summer, which increased the replacement rate of unemployment benefit to 60% on the first 100 days instead of the previous 50%. The unemployment benefit will also be 50% of this year's minimum wage instead of 35%, rising from EUR 189 to EUR 292 from 1 January next year. In addition, as of 1 September, the unemployed can work in the short term without losing their benefits. According to the Unemployment Insurance Fund, almost 800 people have used this option since September. They also brought in the budget side. They estimate that the implementation of the draft as such would cost EUR 48.2 million. Just as yesterday in this large Chamber, we had a debate on the expenditure side of the budget, and many of the questions in the Commission were related to it. In response to the question of the Members of the Commission as to why the figures in the reply of the Government of the Republic and the budget numbers of the initiator of the draft do not match, it was said that the basic data are very likely to be very different and, consequently, the calculation is slightly different. Then there was another question in the Commission, which is the difference between the two drafts. As we know, the Social Democratic Party has already tabled a bill of more or less the same format, the number was 199, and it did not find support in the big hall at that time. It asked what the arguments or changes that have now been put forward, and whether the initiators had also negotiated this issue with trade unions and employers' representatives in order to find out what the level could be found as a source of cover. The initiator of the draft act said that they felt that the situation had changed in economic terms and therefore they have come back to this big hall with this issue. In the same way, they said that when it comes to negotiations with trade unions and employers, the Government of the Republic will certainly be at the table. They hope that if this bill is approved, the Government of the Republic will negotiate. The Commission decided unanimously to propose that the draft be put on the agenda yesterday, but since yesterday's work programme shifted to today, we are discussing it in the big Chamber today. It was then a consensual decision to appoint Tõnis Mölder as rapporteur for the Commission, the speaker here, and to propose that the draft be rejected, with 5 Commission members in favour and 4 against. If the draft passes the first reading, the deadline for amendments is 10 working days according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U93	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U94	Thank you very much. Good waitress! For me, there's still a lot of confusion about the costs. A moment ago, you said that you discussed in the Commission that the implementation cost was 48.2 million. Yesterday it was also mentioned that the cost of expanding the circle of recipients was 88 million. It also states that there will be 29 million in 2020 and 24 million in 2021. In total, it's about 130 million. But I still ask: the same 88 million as the cost of implementation or expansion, how long a period it is foreseen?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U95	Thank you. Once again, depending on when this bill will be implemented, these basic data may differ with regard to the opinion given to the Government of the Republic and the initiator of the draft. So I think that's why this difference is. I don't quite know how to comment on these numbers from this side. Indeed, there are some numbers in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, and the Government of the Republic's reply has other numbers. But as I said in my review, it seems to me that in both cases the basic data are very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U96	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Yes, Lauri Western Forest, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U97	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. We live in difficult and difficult times. I think that this draft, which is currently under way here, should not only be seen in the perspective of ordinary life, but also in the context of difficult times, in a situation where people have lost their jobs, and unfortunately, many may still lose their jobs. There are people who have lost their jobs in the spring, well it is already quite difficult in this sense that certain changes that we made in this Chamber towards spring and certain changes that were promised, but unfortunately missed by the government, are too late. For example, for people who lost their job but whose unemployment benefit ended in October, November or December, some end in January, February or March, it ends in a row, the possibility of receiving an unemployment benefit of EUR 180 is currently EUR 290 next year. But that money won't make it. You can't live with that money. Families actually get hit pretty hard to cope with. These are things that we should look at precisely in the context of this crisis. One of the most important changes to this draft is, in my opinion, the possibility of leaving work with the agreement of the parties and, nevertheless, the possibility of receiving unemployment benefit. I think we have all heard and know that, unfortunately, in Estonia, it is not everywhere that the employee and employer are in equal relations. Yeah, we've been trying to put it into law. Yes, we stress that we provide support. But in fact, it often tends to be that the employer is a stronger party, and unfortunately it is often that the employee does not know all his rights and opportunities. It often happens that a company is in a really difficult situation and that a person's employment relationship is terminated. A person wants to be reasonable and must oppose an entrepreneur so that the employment relationship is terminated by agreement between the parties. But now he's no longer in a position to receive compensation. In essence, he immediately falls into the pot on unemployment benefit! EUR 180 per month. The fact that this person has paid unemployment insurance every year out of the money he earns. This person has collected this money for the difficult situation that may come. In this sense, I think that if we do not want to look in the long term and we do not feel that there should be a place of justice and that a person should get money back from his own insurance fund when he leaves work, then we could look at it in the light of the logic of the crisis situation and support it. If necessary, we will make changes to this bill, but these people should not be left out in any way. In general, this whole logic is somehow wrong. Our entire benefit system is built on the fact that a person should go to work as soon as you lose your job or as soon as you quit. But maybe you quit your job because you want a little bit of self-restraint? Do you want to get some rest? You should have that chance, too, and you should be able to do it without being forced to go to work immediately. Look, this compulsion to go to work is the worst. I mean, if you don't have the money, you have to choose the first job that happens. But this job may not be where you're paid a normal salary. This job may not be where you can apply your skills. In this sense, these Lawyers would also need to be changed and met. I hope you understand that. The Social Democrats are asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U98	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish to speak, the negotiations have been concluded. The commission's proposal is to reject the 250 at first reading and we will go to the vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Act on Unemployment Insurance, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and member of the Riigikogu Raimond Kaljulaid. Please take a stand and vote. I'm sorry. I'm going to cancel the vote. I'm sorry! My mistake, I admit. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 250 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U99	65 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, nine against and no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U100	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of draft Act 251 amending the State Budget Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. And I ask Maris Lauri, a member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U101	Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the Riigikogu complain every year when the new draft budget for next year arrives in the Riigikogu that it is not possible to understand it and the state budget is opaque. A lot has been said about this and it has also tried to find solutions. In the previous Riigikogu, the state budget monitoring committee carried out a report entitled "Possible changes of the Fiscal Policy Paradigm in the Estonian parliamentary system," which looked at the problems that Riigikogu members and other people had noticed and discussed what could be done. Very briefly, it was pointed out that the role of the Riigikogu in dealing with the budget is insufficient. This report dealt with the affairs of committees, such as how the Riigikogu's own budget could be handled and how the state's budget strategy and the role of the Ministry of Finance could be discussed. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum complained about the inconsistencies, the lack of comparison options and the lack of a clear picture of the investment programme. It was found that there could be electronic access instead of browsing a thick piece of paper and also pointed to reporting problems. In the spring of this year, the National Audit Office's report entitled "Overview of the risks associated with financial forecasting and monitoring in the fiscal policy of the state," which dealt with the role of the fiscal council, the reliability of data, and why anomalies arise, how unexpected deficits in the budget arise, etc. I guess these issues have been dealt with in a different way. However, as there has not been much progress on this matter, the draft under discussion was put together. Not all issues are covered in this draft and are limited to relatively few, but this does not mean that other issues are less important; they all definitely need more discussion and debate. What is this bill about? First of all, perhaps I am talking about the detailed nature of the budget in the budget law itself. If you're looking at it, there's a longer table here, and then there's text paragraphs. In total, the law is about 2.5 pages long. But the explanatory statement is about 400 pages, once more, once less. In the course of the budgetary procedure, we still have all kinds of additional material. Shortness of the law means that budget lines are very general and an important part of the information is actually in the explanatory memorandum. Here comes a substantive problem: namely, the law is the law, the explanatory memorandum is the explanatory memorandum. What is written in the explanatory memorandum is not part of the law. This means, however, that the Riigikogu does not really decide how money is used in one ministry or within one programme, but only decides how money is distributed between ministries and programmes. What does that mean? In his presentation last week, the Auditor General also pointed out that there will soon be little point in budgetary control, because it is so general, but at the general level everything is fine. But the problems are often in detail, much deeper inside. Why is such a generality supported? The reason is certainly that the minister can therefore raise his money within this large and general number if he wants to. The question arises as to what we decide in this Riigikogu when we discuss inside this number that there are such and such investment objects, although it is actually possible to invest somewhere else. And it doesn't violate the law. Or maybe there's something like that in some program and stuff like that, but eventually the money's being spent somewhere else. Perhaps the most cartoon example is the additional budget this year. When we were in the Riigikogu discussing where the money for the various support measures should go, it finally became clear that it was decided at the level of the ministries to raise the money to one place or another. If, for example, the Riigikogu discussions excluded absolutely real estate investments, then as you all know, the Minister decided that he could, and made a regulation with which the money went on to real estate, even though the Riigikogu had not taken such a decision. The second thing is that so many programs are very voluminous, or hundreds of millions. However, there are programmes in which we are talking, figuratively speaking, about tens of thousands or even smaller numbers. The level of detail is very uneven, it could be more uniform. This draft therefore proposes that, in addition to the overall programme expenditure, the budget should include a little more detailed expenditure on this programme, such as labour and management costs, operating grants, or transfers of funds, which go on to distribution, for example in the field of education to universities or general education schools. Certainly, the costs need to be presented not in a very high level of detail, but precisely in such a general sense. In order to avoid excessive fragmentation, these small-scale programmes do not need to be so detailed, although then everything should definitely be in the explanatory memorandum. But, for example, at 50 million it could be the limit, the larger sums of which must be broken down in the budget law, the rest, the smaller distribution could be in the explanatory memorandum. This would also apply to investments, not only in the case of expenditure, i.e. very large-scale investments should be shown in a more general form, e.g. a separate line of planned amounts to, for example, Rail Baltic or, in summary, road construction or some real estate investment, so that this is known, certainly not necessarily by object in the budget. Now for the volume of the explanatory memorandum. There's an awful lot of this material in one way, but if you get into it, it turns out you can't get all the stuff you need. The substance is certainly very much obsessed with the way in which the authors of this explanatory memorandum operate. However, according to this draft, some things have already been defined, apart from the mandatory elements of the explanatory memorandum. It would also include planned investments, grants, transferable funds and recipients at a general level, i.e. not in very detailed terms, but precisely what some or others are for. It should not be the case that there are 300 million road investments in MKM, for example, but it has not been explained where they are intended either for road construction, local roads or for large roads. Surely we understand that such general calculations should be. The proposal which obliges the Ministry of Finance to create access to more detailed data on the basis of the draft state budget to the members of the Riigikogu also agrees with the above. Not everyone has to be in the draft state budget or in the explanatory memorandum; we could also look at some things electronically. I'm sure there's a question of how detailed data access is needed, but this is the point of discussion. Members of the Riigikogu should also be able to access data on the execution of the state budget, not so that we should pry data from the Ministry of Finance about how the budget is actually spent. Why is it important to do this electronically? This statement would be less extensive. Members of the Riigikogu would be able to access the information they need to process the budget. In fact, the Riigikogu would have the opportunity to control the implementation of the budget in this way. The next issue concerns reporting. Some time ago, the public suddenly learned that the state budget was in a huge deficit, although it was promised that it would come in surplus or even in balance. What was the reason? As I said before, the National Audit Office became involved. But, to put it simply, we are being given an account of how taxes are collected, how European Union funds are received and how they are used, but we generally do not have an accessory to how real expenditure is made. The monthly breakdown of budget expenditure is shown on the website of the Statistical Office and the latest figures come from the previous December 2019. Unfortunately, these figures are not comparable to what we have in the structure of the state budget. On a quarterly basis, Statistics Estonia provides data with a certain reference time in terms of a quarter, but it is the same problem that cannot be compared to the state budget either. The country's annual report, which we should confirm here today for 2019, is late to assess the implementation of the state budget. The state budget, which is part of the annual report of the state, could actually be summarised earlier. The data set should be together and available at least by the end of the first quarter. This draft therefore proposes that the state budget report be drawn up during the first quarter of next year and in such a structure that it is comparable to the state budget, so that we can really see how this budget is being implemented. In order to ensure that neither the government nor the Riigikogu and the public suddenly discover that we are in a huge deficit, it is necessary that the report on the revenue and expenditure of the budget be reported more frequently, not twice a year, but four times a year, i.e. every quarter, and after this report has been submitted to the government, it is also sent to the Riigikogu. If the revenue is significantly lower than planned or the costs are significantly higher than estimated, the reasons why this has happened should also be provided. The government should present planned steps to be taken to correct this situation. If necessary, changes to the budget or even to the supplementary budget should also be presented. And a small thing: in addition to tax revenues, the Ministry should definitely submit a cost report on its website. At the moment, it simply shows the total amount of expenditure. A slightly more detailed presentation would certainly be necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will all support this bill. First of all, because it would make it easier for all of us. Secondly, because the implementation of these changes alone would increase the role of the Riigikogu in the budgetary process and strengthen the role of the Riigikogu. This role has, unfortunately, decreased over time. But he would also strengthen the role of the Riigikogu in the implementation of the budget. It is certainly also good that the government's work would be easier as a result of this bill, because the data is more accurate, and that the public would also feel and see things better. And why not supplement this bill with other good thoughts or solutions. I assure you that our group is ready for discussions and, if necessary, for changes. So much briefly about this bill. I'm ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U102	Thank you. Indeed, you also have questions. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I think that this is a necessary draft, and I also thank you for a meaningful report. But there is a point in the draft, which you also commented on, that members of the Riigikogu should be made electronically available to the members of the Riigikogu. Have you discussed this draft or thought that maybe we could make the entire budget procedure fully digital? If we are a famous and successful digital state, perhaps even during the budgetary procedure, citizens should be able to look up and simply question whether, for example, next year the pay of teachers will rise, whether the Tallinn Hospital is in the budget or not, etc.? It could be done with simple queries. It would probably make the whole procedure easier if you thought about it. Why not run somewhere around there all the time next year's real budget implementation line, where you can see how much has been spent and how much money has been received? How do you feel about this idea, and would it be real?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U104	Thank you for your question. There is certainly a need to discuss how much budget can be made electronically. The fact that the budget can be handled electronically in the main is, in my opinion, essential. Because paper trays which are several centimetres thick are not operational, but are still presented as text or PDF files, they are particularly difficult to process or compare. It would be much easier, for example, to make comparisons with previous year's data, actual figures or what is planned. You can't do all that well right now, it's basically manual work. So, yes, the point of using electronic data is, in my opinion, very important. This certainly does not mean that we should go to the real data and the ultimate detail, because, when drawing up the budget, there is always a certain notionality involved, but there should certainly be a more detailed view. How much should the public be able to use? Well, let's just say that as soon as the bill is brought to the Riigikogu, it is immediately public. At least to this extent, the budget and its more general background material should also be visible to the public, for example at the level of the explanatory memorandum. So this is the point of discussion, you have to decide where to draw this disclosure limit. The idea of this bill is certainly that if we have a budget, there should also be real costs, so that we can see them. As we know, part of the expenditure is imputable, they have been calculated on the basis of some assumptions, such as the amount of grants being notional, in the sense that if there are more beneficiaries, this amount will go away, but if there are fewer beneficiaries, then there will be nothing left unused. But it should be the same for people to see. However, other amounts are fixed, i.e. they must not be transferred. It would be good if we could see how the use of money is progressing, for example, in a year. I think that would be a very good idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U105	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U106	Good manager! Good waitress! That's right. But my question is whether you are not sharing ideas with each other in the Reform Party Group. A year ago I called a support group to make the state budget understandable, it contains the entire spectrum of the Riigikogu and our members are the Riigikogu Board in corpore and vice-president is Aivar Sõerd. We held a very thorough discussion here with the National Audit Office, the Chancellor of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. The National Audit Office, together with the Ministry of Finance, has been working on the analysis of our proposals, just came up in the meantime. So, actually, this review and the proposals are a little off the hook. Right now, you're rushing in like an open door. No, it's all right. By the way, you were also Minister of Finance in the meantime, I don't know if...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U107	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U108	The question is, why are you rushing through an open door? That's what we're working on right now. And I could have asked Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U109	Thank you. The question is understandable. Yes, I know that such a working group exists in the Riigikogu. We were just waiting for the results to come. I also talked to people who work in this group, and things didn't seem to work out. So, in my opinion, what has happened is, as happens to a very large number of parliamentary support groups and groups in the Riigikogu, that they start to kick in, but then they stop at some point. Maybe I'm wrong, but I thought the door was starting to sink. In this sense, there was certainly one reason for encouraging this to go forward. The second reason is that the reality is, unfortunately, that both ministers and ministries have a certain interest in keeping the budget a little foggy. And it seemed to me that since the movement from that side did not come to my attention or my eyes, perhaps there was a need for encouragement from the Riigikogu. Thirdly, I think that the Riigikogu does not always have to sit and wait for what one or the other minister is doing or how something is done in the ministry, but could be the leader and initiator in certain matters, so that the ministries, ministers, the government can step up and contribute. So I'd be happy to see this bill as a start. If there are good ideas, this bill can certainly be supplemented and the necessary changes made. So the government's proposals are very welcome. I think it would be even nice if for a change some drafts were developed on the initiative of the Riigikogu and the government itself comes up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U110	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! This draft is a step forward, but the main problem, in my opinion, is that the budget has been made opaque with an activity-based structure. The budget is divided into programmes and the money is allocated to the programmes in order to meet certain metrics. We are taking the same transport programme: 400 million is in volume, the money is allocated to ensure that the share of transport in household expenditure does not increase by more than 12% until 2024. One meter, 12% would not be exceeded. What's the point? This great programmatic structure and metrics, let them be some extras that illustrate the budget, but these programs are not needed between here. The money must be allocated directly to expenditure and not to be put between these programmes, which makes the budget completely opaque. I'm asking if it's time to throw this activity-based budget into the trash.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U112	Thank you, good Aivar! That's where I'm different from you. I think that the activity-based budget has its deep content. But this activity-based budget may not have been the best one for us. After all, the logic of the activity-based budget is to set an objective that is to be achieved. If this goal is not adequately set, it will happen as you describe it. And the truth is, when we look at the explanatory memorandum, there are a lot of goals, targets, indicators that do not match with substantive goals. Indicators are often old. Let's just say they've been filled up a long time or something that's not realisticly executed. Perhaps, in my opinion, the problem is that the target setting is either in distress or is based on a very formal approach. What do we want? Well, for example, do we want to achieve a decent path, or do we want to achieve a reduction in some expenditure? Do we want to get children to go to school and get a good education, or do we want them to be happy in school? Figuratively speaking, the objectives must correspond to what the budget does, and the budget objectives may not always be the same as we put into beautiful and, at times, also in the necessary strategies. If we are also discussing the development strategy "Estonia 2035" in this Chamber today, it is a very general strategy and it is difficult to take an indicator and make it a budgetary indicator. Budgetary indicators should be practical, measurable and comprehensible. If any indicator has been achieved, it has been achieved and must be set new. There are certainly areas where it is difficult to set an indicator, for example in foreign policy or also in defence policy. We want to be protected, right, i.e. we can't aim to have so many people in the military or in the armed forces, or any other indicators. 2% of GDP is also a tool, not a target. The question is how we set our goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U113	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, During the first government of Jüri Ratas, Excel's table was disdained. When we look at the government budget of Jüri Ratas, it seems to me that this has been a big mistake. Because I don't think our Republic's eyes have seen before. Listening to you raises a question because there is a great deal of logic, and with experience in local governments, there is nothing new but absolutely nominal needs. Please tell me what might be the factor that would call into question the right to this possible draft and its adoption. Do you feel that this can be adopted, or are we still not reaching a consensus here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U115	Thank you. I think it is possible to obtain the necessary consensus in the Riigikogu on the basis of this draft, starting from the fact that it would be easier for us to process the budget, it is not a simple process, not only in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but also in other committees, to understand what is being done. It's a practical side for us. The question is certainly that if the material that is being developed is clear and understandable, it will also be easier to defend it. I think it would be easier for the government to protect their affairs if he could see it better and see it harder. It would also be easier to monitor compliance if we had the necessary data. And it would also be necessary for the public. In fact, I think it would be necessary for everyone to have a very wide circle so that we can understand what the state budget is, where the money is spent, and why it is done. We can then always discuss whether the solutions proposed in the draft are the best. Maybe someone has some great idea that we didn't think of. Let's just say that these are the options we proposed that seemed the smartest. But I guess everyone has different perspectives. Having been an economic analyst, I can look a little bit at things besides the private sector, who are also interested in using public money and who probably have a slightly different perspective than maybe some other interest groups. Transparency makes so much sense to me. Because you can't work with something you don't understand. If we understand, the quality of work will also be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U116	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U117	Thank you very much. Good waitress! It is a very pleasant initiative in itself, and I am not trying to be critical of it at all, but I am basically trying to understand. Here you referred to the fact that we are now in a situation where the law itself is 2.5 pages long and there are 400 pages in the explanatory memorandum, but there is a need to make this process more transparent and subtle, and there is a need to highlight certain circumstances. Here's the question. So what would happen if we were to start writing more precisely here isn't there such a danger that now the law gets very thick and the explanatory memorandum gets smaller, let's say, the law is 200 pages and the explanatory memorandum is 200 pages? Is that gonna make things better, or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U118	Thank you for your question. In fact, with these amendments, the draft should not be 200 pages. Maybe he's going to be five pages, which isn't too much, but maybe he's only going to be four pages. Exactly, the question is that greater sums should be distributed, not all the small amounts that are currently in the budget, and not go to a very large level of detail at the level of the draft legislation. Figuratively speaking, if there are 300 million written on a line now, it could be divided and written not as a single line, but as labour costs are so high, management costs are so high, the subsidies that are granted are so much, and there is still a line. Instead of one row, you could have three-four-five rows. Maybe he could get two or three times fatter. Not all programs are so voluminous. Here, I say, the proposed 50 million borders, i.e. if the volume of any programme is up to 50 million, it does not need to be described in more detail in the draft. It might, but it doesn't. I'm sure you don't have to write that to this school or this hospital so much. In short, in such detail, the draft budget does not have to sign things up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U119	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U120	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll go back to what I said. Why did you never, as Minister of Finance, take steps to clarify the budget? You're saying the finance ministers have this habit of keeping it as blurry as possible. And the second question: why didn't you join our support group and participate in the discussions with our colleagues Aivar Sõerd, Siim Kallas, Andres Sutt and others? Now you're gonna come in here with this talk, maybe you're gonna storm in like an open door. Why didn't you participate from the beginning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U121	Thank you. Firstly, I am certainly not saying that finance ministers are working against budgetary transparency. Ministers in other areas often oppose. As regards my term of office as Minister of Finance, I recall: I was in office for five months, one month after the elections, no minister makes decisions after the elections, and before four months just before the elections. I just couldn't deal with these things and it probably wouldn't have been right to start dealing with very big and important things right before the elections. If I had been honoured to become Minister of Finance after the elections, I would certainly have raised this issue. As for why I am not in your group or participating in meetings, as you certainly know, there are very many other groups and many other activities in the Riigikogu. First of all, the formation of this group probably took place at a moment when I didn't notice it. Secondly, I knew that my colleagues in the group would be involved in this. In drafting this draft, I worked with my colleagues, it is collective work in that sense, so their thoughts have been taken into account. I think you don't always have to be a member of one group or another. A person can work on a subject without necessarily being a member of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U122	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I cannot agree with Peter Ernits' comment that this is just like breaking through an open door. That door was open for a year. A year. I remember when the draft budget for 2020 was on the table. Once again, I refer to this, the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Aivar Kokk, promised in his presentation that next year the draft budget would be considerably more transparent. Now, a while ago, it turned out to be exactly the same, if not worse. I don't doubt Aivar's good intentions, but obviously the government didn't want to change it. In this sense, it is the unfinished work that the Reform Party is currently helping to do. But my question is this: what could be the attitude of the Ministry of Finance's top officials in dealing with this approach to the draft state budget? Will this opposition only come from the politicians?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U124	Thank you for your question. In my first reply to Mr Ernits, I said that I thought the door was closing, so it had to be opened again. As for the positions of the Ministry, you can't see inside people, but so many of the ideas put in this bill have actually been discussed with the people of the Ministry. And the idea of creating electronic access to certain background data for members of the Riigikogu also came from that side. Well, there have been different ideas. Let's just say that not all the issues are covered in this draft. For example, the issue of the Fiscal Council, which is certainly also very interesting, is not at all here. But it needs more discussion and perhaps more involvement. Eesti Pank, for example, may also be present next to the Board. So there are a lot of discussion points here. We could discuss all of this here. I think that in the case of subjective emotions, a minister or an official might feel that it would be better if it were the way it is, and perhaps even more blurred. But as politicians, we know that at one point you are in opposition, and at another moment you are in coalition, i.e. your roles are changing, but in the other role, your interests and needs may be completely different. So looking for a suitable compromise is, in my opinion, the task of the Riigikogu. Above all, I would like to stress: it is important that the Riigikogu itself establishes itself, deals with the topics itself and initiates the topics itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U125	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U126	Thank you. I was the one who thought it might not be very developmental to get to know the budget under Peeter Ernits and to join in. But you might remind him that the budget took such a form during the Ratta government. We don't have to shake too much ash on our heads here. But maybe it would be possible to please him, because he always takes the word in that style, to write a passage into that law that only those things that have already been changed may be changed. You can't change anything, change must repeat what you've done. He always says why you didn't do it before. Let's agree to write this section, then get rid of that jorina.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U127	Thank you. Yes, Jürgen, it was your idea. Perhaps we can also formulate this proposal in writing as an amendment and then we can certainly discuss whether the Riigikogu can only change things that it has changed in time before. But I think that in practice, sometimes it's necessary to change things that are fossilized and in the way of time. I guess things also have the tendency that if they're not kept on the line, they'll slowly fall down the mountain. And it seems to me that this lack of transparency in the budget has deepened over the years that I have been here in the Riigikogu. I dare say that this year the explanatory statement was a little more uniform than it was last year. However, the problem is, for example, that when comparing the amounts planned for next year with those of last year, this is not always possible. The Ministry said that, but you know, now we have the programs merged, and instead of the former three or four programs, there's one very large-scale program. I told you, if you just added up the programmes, you could have added up the sums. They blinked on it. So, unfortunately, I had to do the summation myself. And there, to be honest, it took the Excel chart. Excel is actually a very useful tool, just like a pen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U128	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I heard my fellow Members say a little bit about good intentions, and it reminded me of such a somewhat cliché-like folk saying that good intentions paved the way to hell. The question, however, is that we have democratic countries with a long history around here and among friends. Who has the ideal state budget to follow?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U130	Thank you. I think the budget is a phenomenon that is probably not ideal anywhere. Each country adjusts it and changes it. Estonia must also change it according to changing times and needs. If perhaps in the 1990s this budget was both very detailed and, as far as we have heard from the members of the Riigikogu at the time, the problem was that it was too detailed, then now the pendulum has run like a second edge, where the budget has become very general. Probably the right option is somewhere in the middle, i.e. it is not too general or too detailed. The options are very different. But the subject which this draft does not deal with is the Fiscal Council or such independent bodies that look at the budgeting process, prepare forecasts, etc. There are countries where this has been handled very well and where it works very successfully. For example, in Sweden, the Fiscal Council is considered to be well-functioning and successful. I think we could learn a lot from it. Our Board of Budgets is a little bit toothless, according to my subjective assessment, and his mental capacitance; knowledge could also be used more simply to make the budget better and to prepare the budget more competent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U131	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U132	Thank you. Of course, you can't take anything seriously, as always. But I recall that while the Reform Party was still in power during the previous term, we in the Special Committee on State Budget Control consensually worked out a number of proposals, in cooperation with the National Audit Office, to simplify and improve the comprehension of the budget. These proposals are precisely to break what all these years have actually been going on by the Reform Party, thanks to whom the budget is so incomprehensible. But the Reform Party pulled its own people from behind, we presented it to the Riigikogu, but of course, under your leadership, it was rejected. Now this parliamentary support group works with the support of representatives of all political parties, the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance. Why are you torpedoing this joint action again?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U133	Thank you. Dear Mr. Põllamas! If you had listened carefully to my report, I referred to this report. The main author of this report was Kristjan Kõljalg, member of the Reform Party at the time. And when we look at the proposals that were made there, most of them have not been implemented. I would remind you that by the time this report was completed and could have been implemented, the exchange government. So maybe we should ask the previous government then and perhaps also the current government because the head of government is the same and at least two parties are the same in the previous and the current government, so why didn't it go any further? Why is the budget getting foggy? There are different reasons, I've mentioned some of them, but I don't dare say it's because of the Reform Party. Of course, it may also be the fault of the Reform Party that the snow has not yet come off this year or I do not know yet. [[A voice from the hall.]] So it's your freedom to blame, but then do it sensibly and intelligently.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U134	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Of the proposals made by the previous Riigikogu, the Special Committee on the Audit of the State Budget, there were seven of them, I think, much has been taken into account. And, by the way, thanks to these proposals, there is currently a list of investments. In the meantime, it disappeared at all, but it was brought back on a proposal from the Commission. But I ask that during the previous term there was also a document on the possibility of a budget paradigm in Estonia. That was the wish of the Riigikogu. I saw that it did not say that the Riigikogu now wants an activity-based budget. It dealt with a result-based budget and said that it was suitable for describing programmes, which is more than one year. But now the entire budget is operational. Couldn't these programmes and metrics be an annex to the budget strategy and not the whole content of the budget law for a given year? Let them be an illustration of the strategy. Why is it necessary to bring into law programmes that cannot be implemented in practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U136	Thank you. When this report was drawn up, it was only the individual ministries that had an operational basis in terms of programmes. And certainly the question was that the budget was very uneven, because some ministries had provided data in the same way, but some had done so in a new way, i.e. with programmes. It must have caused some confusion. Since last year, everything has been operational. It will take time to adapt to any change. It is always a question of what we want. If my memory isn't fooled, maybe he is cheating too, because I haven't been in the Riigikogu for so long, then for years there was a rumor that ministries were acting in a routine and they didn't have the goals or results they were supposed to achieve. So this progress towards a result-based budget was clearly linked to the desire to establish a link between the authorities and the targets and budgets, so that expenditure would be linked to targets and ministries would have targets. As I said before, it seems to me that setting or defining these targets is in trouble. It's like this place. If we have asked about these targets, it is said to be somewhere in this or another development plan. After all, in the private sector, larger companies also have long-term plans and budget estimates and targets, but such general objectives are not budget-linked, but budget implementation is linked to specific immediate objectives. I have a feeling there might be a problem. Maybe those targets aren't set right. The right goals, objectives have not been chosen. If you set them correctly, choose them correctly, it would probably be easier to understand what is being done. Let's just say that the budget is always easier when there are more specific objectives and targets. But really, often the numerical goals we have in ministries or programs when we look at the budget are a little strange. Let's just say that what is written in this text is not really very well associated with what is being achieved. But that connection should be clear. These figures do not necessarily have to be plucked from somewhere in the development plan, but it could be that if we have the annual budget, they would be linked to the year, and if we are talking about the RES, where there is a four-year action plan, there should be different targets. Or let's say that these reasons and such things could be more logically linked. This connection may not be the best for now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U137	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U138	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! It is good to ask you precisely this more precise comparison, because you yourself were also a minister some time ago, and you can tell me how and how this budget was drawn up. Just for the record, how much transparency is lost by 50% is that one third? I ask you to understand how big this problem is compared to what was then in your time, and what the current situation is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U139	Thank you. Look, with budget transparency, it's kind of hard to measure, and that's why it's hard to say how many percent it's gotten worse. Transparency is poor when you do not understand, and the worse you understand, the worse transparency is. If you have questions about how to deal with the budget, for example, what is behind this number or where this number is obtained and why the two numbers that should give the third number in the appendix to each other, for some reason the third number does not add up, something is wrong. If there are a lot of such questions, there's probably something wrong with the material you're working on. And now that I've been in the Riigikogu, I've seen that all kinds of patchwork and number chases have come more for me, not less. Maybe part of it is that we work on paperwork. Maybe electronically, the picture would be clearer. Perhaps the question is also that these numbers are not, let's say, evenly presented. One minister, for example, explained why his ministry's explanatory memorandum did not indicate the costs of one area or another, but that we were told that the figures did not have to be written. They just wrote that we'd do this, the second and the third, spend the fourth and the fifth thing. All the other ministries wrote the numbers, but somehow they didn't write the numbers. It is a very large ministry, very high costs, so immediately the clap is several percent opaque due to the fact that we have, figuratively speaking, a total of maybe ten lines on the ministry, although there should be perhaps 50 rows. So that's what happens. And more. I would still stress that one thing is the data set in the explanatory memorandum and the other one is in the draft budget itself, in the table that we confirm. What's the legal trick? The fact that the law is the law, the law is valid and the law must be observed. The explanatory memorandum explains how these numbers are derived, or why. If there are no numbers in the explanatory memorandum, it is not possible to understand how this large number has come into the draft. A very simple reason. I hope I answered you. Let's just say I can't be more specific, but if you don't get the details for the big ministry, you don't know where some number comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U140	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U141	When Henn Põllaas says 'Reform Party', he must, of course, be taken very seriously. But I would remind you that, under the leadership of the Reform Party, the budget was last put together in 2014. Please don't tell me how we're doing this! How are we still keeping this country yoked, not allowing the right things to be done, and making the budget more and more confusing? As the author of this draft, you certainly know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U142	Thank you. Yeah, that's a very complicated question. I've thought about it myself once in a while. And I suspect it has something to do with certain paranormal phenomena.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U143	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U144	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In my opinion, the budget is a very important document, one of the important users of which is the Riigikogu, its members. If we are still talking about user-centredness and such things in society in general, the fact that the draft readers and users of the explanatory memorandum understand it and find useful information there is so basic that the draft initiated by the Riigikogu makes perfect sense. And I agree that all political parties should be able to work together so that both the State Budget Act and the explanatory memorandum can be obtained in a form that is understandable, reasonable and transparent for us. But how do you feel about it? Would it help more? If, for example, the explanatory memorandum gives a simple overview of each area on one or two pages, if the annual report is already reported in the spring, when it is very little past last year and it is still relevant, and if the Board gives more meaningful and broader feedback and it gets widespread use of the media, is it not useful information for society as a whole that people receive for their tax money? This could improve tax compliance and bring the country closer to people. How do you feel about this broader social benefit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U145	Thanks for asking. Indeed, one of the things that this bill deals with is for us to be more comfortable dealing with this state budget, to be more substantive about it and not to spend time on it, also on the time of officials to listen to what number it is, where you got it, what it means, I don't get these numbers together. That kind of thing would go away. And that, in my opinion, is something that is very much assisted by an electronic approach. If these basic background materials are visible, perhaps there are no such questions as where one or the other comes from. As far as the public is concerned, it is certainly very important that people, especially citizens, see where the money is being spent and how it is being spent. It's nice to know that that's how many percent go to healthcare or education. But it is also important to know exactly what is being done with this money, why it is going there precisely in this amount, not in another amount, and how this amount will be formed and where these numbers will come from. If there is a public view of the expenditure planned and of why we spend money for one place or another and how it is actually done, then I think there are so many places that we can save. I am quite convinced that then a few voters would come and ask: "Listen, why are you spending this money there? " In this case, we often do not see one place or another being spent here in the Riigikogu. If everything were to be seen electronically, maybe we would. Let's say 101 pairs of eyes are 101 pairs of eyes, but if there are two or three times as many readers as I am not an optimist, of course, and I don't think that all citizens are going to look at it, then perhaps something else will be discovered and it would probably be useful for us and for Estonia at large. I have always been in favour of things being public and clear in a reasonable manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U146	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U147	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for this comprehensive review and for answering questions. It has always seemed to me that the important thing about good proposals is not who did it, but what was done is what was done. It seems to me, listening to this debate in this Chamber, that it is now a good opportunity to find the joint part of this support group [proposals] and the draft you have initiated and to do something together here in the Riigikogu. Until such time as amendments are tabled, it is possible for the same support group to make its additions, if there is something different. This would be a very good example of how something can be done together and together, regardless of political affiliation. We're looking for something that connects us, not what breaks us up. Surely, for the budget to be accessible and clearly legible, everyone has a clear desire of 101 people. Is that what you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U148	Thank you. Yes, I fully agree that we should find common elements that are certainly present alongside political and weather-sighted differences. From the previous composition, I have a very good experience that when, under my leadership, we made a draft that created the Development Monitoring Centre, which now gives us long-term views, it was very pleasant to see that part of the parties in the opposition at the time supported it. Not all of them, but some of them did. So I think this cooperation is essential to show that the Riigikogu is actually able to work together. Because when the Riigikogu works together, it means that the people of Estonia also work together. If the Riigikogu is in constant conflict, it is a bit like the reflection of society as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U149	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U150	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Well, you pointed out here, let's say, this specific approach. I dare say that most people say that the budget is complicated and incomprehensible, just as for many of my constituents, for example, the price formation of women's shoes and their goodness is completely incomprehensible. But the question: Does a higher degree of generalisation within the budget add or rather reduce flexibility? Because we know that prices in the market are changing from time to time, and that might give us room for manoeuvre, but that's my opinion, you might have a completely different opinion. If we are talking not only about the Riigikogu, but also about how the wider public understands this budget through the media, are there any impact analyses about it? Let's just say, as Jürgen said, that until 2014, most people understood the budget, but after that, the situation is extremely difficult. What matters more to me is whether a high degree of generalisation prevents or allows flexibility within the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U151	Thank you. I think that it is still the case in the pact and in real life that the extreme ends are never very effective or useful; they are a little out of place. If it is very general, then generalism gives the possibility that there are, for example, 500 million, and within this 500 million, the minister can do with the money that comes to his mind. The flexibility of what kind. But do we want that kind of flexibility? I don't think that's good. Where's the border? I'm guessing it's somewhere below. We have proposed in this bill that this limit be 50 million. If there's less than 50 million, you don't have to split it in detail in the law. It might, but it doesn't. And it still gives flexibility. Within 50 million, I think there is quite a lot of flexibility. Maybe 50 isn't the right line, it's a discussion place. We can discuss where to put the border. But it seems to me that 500 million is too high in terms of flexibility. We're looking for this border in a more rational place. Well, that 50 was just an offer. The analysis is that I used a lot of materials to put together this draft, there are various analyses and experiences from different countries. Let's put it this way, as I said before, that budget transparency cannot be measured quite well, it is a bit of a subjective matter and a matter of perception. Depending on the situation. I imagine that if we seem to have 500 million very large sums, then in Germany, in the United States, this could be a small amount. There are shifts here, too. If this 500 were in crowns right now, it'd probably look like a small sum. So things change in time and there has to be flexibility. If one thing is ever fixed, it doesn't mean that it will always be. We need to feel this border. The bottom line of this bill is that we've moved from one side to the other side, now we should come back a little bit. Probably the best option somewhere in the middle. Let's pick it up and talk about where it is. But if it is necessary, because I have also dealt with accounting and the budget is actually accounting, I am always ready to educate people, all the more so because I have dealt with it too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U152	Thank you, Honorable waitress. No further questions for you. I now ask for Mr Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U153	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 17 November, the Finance Committee discussed the preparation of the draft amendment to the State Budget Act initiated by the Estonian Reform Party for the first reading. Maris Lauri presented the draft as the representative of the initiators of the draft in the Committee on Finance. Regina Vällik, Budget Policy Advisor to the Ministry of Finance, also participated in the meeting. The purpose of the draft is to ensure better transparency and comprehension of the state budget and to improve the reporting of the implementation of the budget in order to strengthen the role of the Riigikogu in the processing and execution of the state budget and to ensure a timely response to possible deviations from the approved state budget. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 24 November this date was yesterday, but now the debate has been postponed to today, to propose that the first reading be stopped and to set the deadline for amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure 10 working days, i.e. 9 December at 5.15 p.m. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U154	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Sõerd, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a little tour of the past, a few years ago, because this issue of budgetary transparency is not just a matter of concern for its composition. The previous composition of the Riigikogu also dealt with this issue several times. In the previous composition of the Riigikogu, we had a colleague Kristjan Kõljalg, who was led by a report and also an interview among members of the Riigikogu. This resulted in a report entitled "Possible changes of the Fiscal Policy Paradigm in the Estonian Parliamentary System." Grateful work. It addressed the issue of budgetary transparency in an extremely thorough and comprehensive manner and analysed practices in other countries as well. Some of the topics or some of the things that were raised as proposals. For example, the state's annual report could be completed before the government submits the budget to the Riigikogu for the following year. But what do we see now? The state budget has been presented for a long time, it is already coming to third reading, but it is only today that we have here a summary report for the previous financial year. So the things that the Riigikogu brought up then just didn't go to work much. The preparation of the budget was dealt with in a number of respects, and the various methods were also thoroughly examined. For example, a cost-based approach is possible, there is zero-based budgeting, as well as a result-based budget, which today has become an activity-based budget. And that's what this whole budget is all about. But then, here I look at this document, it was pointed out that the result-based budget is more suitable for evaluating programmes that go far beyond one year. And metrics are mostly not financial, which makes it hard to measure. Perhaps the future budget could be combined, i.e. zero-based, cost-based and also result-based. All of this can be discussed and dealt with, I think, also within the framework of this draft. Then, in addition to this report, the previous Riigikogu was composed of a budget strategy based on a crucial national issue, the discussion of the future of the state's budget strategy. In this context, the State Budget Control Commission also made a number of proposals to the government, some of which were indeed taken into account, but not all of them. However, this work was ongoing in the previous Riigikogu and it is very welcome that the current composition has taken a great deal of attention to the issue of budgetary transparency. This bill here on our table is progressing. Everyone can contribute and make suggestions. This is where I call on the various groups to take part in this work on behalf of this working group on transparency in the state budget. I call for cooperation. This bill is the basis for moving forward, and it is certainly a big step forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U156	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 251. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 9 December at 5.15 p.m. Today's second item is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U157	Let's keep going. The third item is the first reading of the draft law 287 on the amendment of the law on funded pensions initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the related amendment of other laws. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U158	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the draft law on funded pensions initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, in this connection, to the amendment of other laws. The draft relates to the reform of the second pillar. In particular, it clarifies the flow of money and data relating to the pension investment account and corrects any reference errors and other inaccuracies in the new second pillar regulation. There will be no fundamental changes to the second pillar reform. The draft clarifies the movement of money and data relating to the pension investment account. This will specify, for example, the procedures for entering into a pension contract where the payment of the premium is to be made using the money on the pension investment account, as well as the one-off payment to the second pillar pensioner and the partial one-off payment on 1 January 2022 under the Reform Act, where the payment also includes money from the pension investment account. It is not appropriate to arrange for the transfer of money from a pension investment account to a pension contract or the initiation of a partial lump sum payment if the money is to be paid out of a pension investment account through a pension registrar and the person could issue such instructions to the bank that opened his pension investment account. The draft also introduces some improvements to the regulation, where it has not been made by the law on funded pensions and related amendments to other laws. For example, the Law on mutual funds extends the prohibition of taking back the pension fund shares from a unit-holder who is of old-age age or who still does not have more than five years to reach it, to a unit-holder who has been assigned a lack of working capacity and who has otherwise been treated as a second-pillar pensioner with the second-pillar reform. In the Guarantee Fund Act, references to the pension investment account where the amount of the benefit should be transferred when the person no longer makes contributions to the pension fund but instead uses the pension investment account are introduced into the regulation of compensation for damage caused to the unit-holder of the second pillar. The draft also introduces some simplifications in the pay-out processes of the second pillar. If a person leaves the second pillar and withdraws money but his or her second pillar should receive more money later (for example, the employer will liquidate his or her debt), then the pension registrar does not necessarily have to wait for the next month of payout, i.e. January, May or September, respectively, but may transfer the money received to the person immediately. The idea that this transfer must have been made no later than the next month of payment shall remain valid. If a person retires from the second pillar and uses all his or her money collected in the second pillar, then the bill makes it easier and allows the pension registrar to simply pay the person the money received later on in the pension account of that person or enter him or her into the pension contract, depending on which method of payment he or she used. The important thing here is that according to the bill, a person does not have to submit a separate new application. If it has been chosen that part of the money will remain in the second pillar, then there will be no automatic entries later, and in order to use the money left in the pillar or the money added to it later, the person will still have to make a new choice and apply for it. Siiri Tõniste, Head of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Counsellor Kertu Fedotov were invited to the discussions. At its meeting on 17 November, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 November, to propose that the first reading be closed and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 15 p.m. on 7 December 2020, and to appoint a rapporteur to be appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U159	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 287 and that is the end. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 7 December at 15. Today's third item is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U160	Let's keep going. The fourth item is the third reading of the draft Act of the Government of the Republic and the Act of Amendment of other Acts (merging the Air Administration, the Road Administration and the Maritime Administration) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Looks like it is. Kalvi Tough, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U161	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I went to the remote and gave a speech during the second reading of the law. It has to be said that nothing has changed since then. After all, the words that both I and my colleague Kristen Michal said from this remote are in force today. According to the Social Democratic Party, this merger is being carried out in a hasty manner, not enough involvement of stakeholders and sectors, particularly the maritime sector, still have a number of questions. As a result, there will be no long discussion here and no reading of the minutes of the third sitting that Kalev missed at the time. I will announce the decision of the Group of the Social Democratic Party: our draft does not support us and we recommend you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U162	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 236. We are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is necessary for the adoption of the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U163	56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U164	Let's keep going. Today's fifth item is the third reading of the draft law supplementing § 28 of the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. We can go to the final vote because the lead committee has proposed a final vote on the draft 217. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that 51 votes are also needed for this draft to become a law. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law supplementing § 28 of the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 217. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U165	80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U166	Today's sixth item is the third reading of draft law 234 amending the Tourism Act and the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 234 on the draft. Can we go to the final vote without a previous signal? We can. Thank you. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law 234 amending the Tourism Act and the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U167	81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U168	Today's seventh item on the agenda is the third reading of the law on organic farming initiated by the Government of the Republic and the draft law on plant reproductive and plant variety rights. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 260 on the draft. I shall put this draft to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law 260 on organic farming initiated by the Government of the Republic and on plant reproductive and plant variety rights. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U169	81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U170	Today's eighth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 225 on the draft. We are going to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Feedingstuffs initiated by the Government of the Republic 225. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U171	82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U172	Today's ninth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the State Budget Act 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. An amendment to the draft has also been tabled. This amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Is it a procedural question? Yeah. Mr. Kruuse's mike.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U173	Please specify which amendment you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U174	Amendment tabled by the Committee on Finance, on which the Steering Committee has expressed its position "to take full account." How do I describe this to you? This is a voluminous proposal with tables. This is an amendment which technically adjusts the central part of the State Budget Act. In particular, consolidation errors, changes in the line "Total aid received' and "Total aid received'. The total budget of financial transactions is changed as the financing transactions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs were accounted for with the wrong sign, so the total amount was smaller, etc. I believe the material is also available in the hall. Got it. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U175	Excuse me if I'm wrong, but I suspect it's a mess that we don't have a Commission waitress. At least he's not listed here, and he hasn't been invited. If there is still a vote on the amendment, it would make sense for the Commission to provide its explanations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U176	I think you're right. I don't have a waitress here either. I have a question for the Committee on Monetary Affairs: who represents the Committee on Monetary Affairs at third reading? [[Voices in the hall.]] Is Jürgen Ligi a waitress? No, the chairman of the committee himself is. The chairman of the committee personally, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U177	The Committee on Finance discussed the preparation of the third reading on 17 and 23 November. According to § 43 of the State Budget Act, the Government of the Republic may initiate a draft law amending the state budget no later than two months before the end of the financial year, without altering the total expenditure. Given that the National Budget Act 2020 has been drafted last autumn and some funding needs have changed, it is appropriate to initiate a change in the state budget in order to achieve the objectives set by the public authorities more effectively. In total, the draft reflects 85 amendments. No amendments were tabled by the deadline for submitting amendments, including 16 November at 5.15 p.m. by Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees. The Committee on Finance, together with the ministries, produced one amendment consisting of several amendments, mainly specifying revenue and expenditure. However, it is important that farmers receive another EUR 12 million in support of this year's budget. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 25 November, to propose the termination of the third reading and to hold a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U178	Thank you. I would like to thank the attentive members of the opposition who have seen through the tricky of the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for which he would not have come here to appear before us. But now they're asking questions. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U179	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This material, which has been distributed to us, has improved the amounts that have come out of the budget in the last, 12th, and they are quite large. Here are 14 million, the financing transactions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs have been wrong in the budget and the amounts are changing. Errors have also been found in environmental charges; the amounts were wrongly disregarded. I'm asking you, once this audit is done, is this the budget review that we have been told about for years? During the summer, the government also gathered and discussed the budget review. Can we now draw a line on the budget review and are you satisfied with the results of the budget review?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U180	Thank you, Aivar, for a very good question. As we know, in 2019 the National Audit Office identified consolidation errors in the central part. The same errors were also found in the 2020 budget. In the big picture, there have been two problems. One problem is the quality of data, i.e. the part of government administration is non-consolidated, i.e. there may be transactions between government areas. If one government grants support to another and the other uses it as an expense, it is double-counted. The central part of the national budget has been consolidated. Such transactions must be eliminated. Another major problem is last-minute manual work, i.e. two manual changes have been made and they have not been noticed in the information system. These improvements have later been made manually extracted from the Excel information system. This specifically concerns environmental charges and financing operations in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U181	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U182	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. The contribution of 12 million farmers is certainly welcome, given a certain crisis in this sector. As chairman of the committee, can you tell us where the substantive proposal was to make the kind of distribution that is stated in the materials? I am thinking of a sectoral distribution that states whether it will be sows, pigs, meat cattle, suckler cows. Who specifically gave you this table for the amendment, or which institution formally sent it to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, so that we can see it here today among the materials?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U183	Thank you. It's a proposal from the Ministry of Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U184	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U185	Thank you. Well, it is customary, however, that the chairman of the committee goes through these amendments in greater detail. Given that we do not have too many of them here, I will see that there are 12 amendments that have been drafted by the Commission, it would actually be nice to go over them. I think that, as regards the question raised by Mr Kruuse, whether the distribution of'vegetable beef, suckler cow and dairy cow' is proportionate or correct, the chairman of the committee could perhaps give some clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U186	Thank you. As I said before in answering Aivar's question, the rest of the proposals are to correct consolidation errors, and the concrete correction is the support for farmers of 12 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U187	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U188	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Since sometimes mistakes are made and these errors are corrected, it is perfectly normal for the budget as well. But my question is this: as chairman, will you give the head that everything is now right in this report?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U189	Thank you. As the honourable member of the Riigikogu knows, the budget is presented by the Government of the Republic, not by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Committee on Monetary Affairs will try to correct them if it detects errors. The National Audit Office drew attention to this in 2019, but by that time the budget for 2020 had already reached such a stage that it was in this Chamber when it was adopted. We asked the officials of the Ministry of Finance exactly the same question, and Regina Vällik promised the Commission that there would be no more such errors in the 2021 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U190	Thank you. Let's hope you don't have to roll. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U191	Thank you. I have reassured colleagues here that the material that has been added to the agricultural subsidies concerns the explanatory memorandum, its substance, its binding nature. But still, when you start looking at this text, it says, I'll see, terminological use is that vegetables and... What's the other word? Vegetables and fruit. I conclude from this wording that garden berries have been left out. Knowing the political background of some ministers here, confirm the garden berries, frankly thinking of strawberries, it is not really funny, has there been some very arrogant lines in the direction of the company that is most in trouble with the labour force, and as the leader of the Commission, tell me whether or not the berry growers are in this list and within its financial separation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U192	Thank you, Jürgen, for a good question. There was no debate in the Commission with this precision. [[A voice from the hall.]] I haven't asked anyone if the strawberries, strawberry plants or the picking of strawberries are in there somewhere. I read from here that there's gardening in here. I'm sure under the gardening everything that belongs to the gardening is also strawberry growing. But the Minister's order will finally come to a final decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U193	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U194	Thank you. I am asking a little more generally than these specific amendments at present. Because at the time of making this budget as a whole was projected to be one of its positions, but in reality already in January and February, even before the emergency situation, even before the spread of the corona virus, it went to a very large disadvantage. I have a question that consists of two sides. Firstly, why did such a minus occur at the beginning of the year in this budget so large? And the other half of the question: what do we learn from this and how in the future will we be able to do the budget better in line with forecasts?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U195	Thank you. No one could have foreseen the situation that the economy might have in this year in relation to coronavir at the time of making this year's budget. On the one hand, many things have been tried to be solved with this year's additional budget, which is also part of the 2020 budget. But we discussed, a few moments ago, the greater transparency of the budget that your party had offered. One of the points was that the revenue and expenditure side can be monitored on a quarterly basis, even for months in practice, but quarterly improvements can be made if necessary. This is certainly important in order to make it much better for members of the Riigikogu to monitor the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U196	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U197	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! You said you received this so-called 12 million distribution of agriculture from the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Since this is an amendment, can you confirm that it came to you through an official e-mail or an official letter and therefore this material was added to the third reading of the budget? Or am I wrong? I'm looking at the Rural Affairs Committee protocol. It is clearly stated that the internal division will only come after the Riigikogu has taken a decision to allocate 12 million. It means things don't really fit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U198	I am, of course, very sad that, although you are the vice-chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, the Committee on Rural Affairs did not propose to the Committee on Monetary Affairs any proposals of 12 million or anything else. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has now made such a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U199	Urmas Kruuse, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U200	Honourable to the waitress: the speaker here proposed the allocation of 15.3 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U201	You made it as a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U202	Thank you for that clarification. There's a verbogram. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U203	Thank you. For the sake of the verbatim report in particular, however, I would also like to draw the attention of the Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee to the fact that material reaching the members of the Riigikogu could, more or less, have passed through the language editor's hand as well as been formally transferred. When I read these tables, some of the numbers disappear at the end, and it's hard to figure out if there's a percentage sign at the end of the table, or if there's nine in half printed. It's on page four and page three. Coming back to that 12 million again, then from this dissertation, I'm sorry, it's very difficult to understand what we're going to decide. Are we going to decide, for example, to give pig farming a total of 3.3 million sows under performance control? And when I look at the gardening, there's a "kitchen and fruit ha." In general, it should be understood that it is hectares, but is it per hectare? It is not written out here how much then per hectare a farmer can get, etc. That is simply why my first question was also to get a little more detailed explanation of the amendments you tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U204	I'm sorry! The printed material should contain a percentage on page 4. And as for gardening: it's a hectare-based.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U205	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U206	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm gonna get the feeling that you came and were hoping to sell us a pig in a bag. This whole process of amendments looked like this. But I have a substantive question: why do you sidestep and not explain these amendments? If you can't, tell me you can't or can't, but if you can, tell me. I am looking at Amendment 3. I'm gonna have a mess about this: the Ministry of Justice's jurisdiction, but it's social issues inside. Or number 10, there's exactly the same family policy. There's a little bit of logic here for me, and there's an explanation. I don't understand how the Ministry of Justice has managed to get into the area of government, mostly the changes made by the Ministry of Social Affairs, and then they will still be there separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U207	Thank you for a good question. Maybe you came to the hall a little later, I can't tell you, but I said in my response to Aivar that most of the problems with consolidation have been corrected, which have come in since 2019. These improvements, which are today at third reading, are, in reality, improvements to consolidation errors so that they do not come into 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U208	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U209	Thank you. First of all, I would ask you to answer the question of Urmas Kruus, where did this table come from concerning the distribution of agricultural aid. You didn't answer what form it came in and from where. Secondly, I would like to ask you to take this issue seriously, the division that concerns gardening. Real "Agricultural" is enclosed in "kitchen &amp; Fruit ha," i.e. the vegetables are narrowed to vegetables and fruits, leaving out garden berries. Is it intentional and what, in your opinion, would be the will of the Riigikogu? For the record, tell me how it happened and what you think is right. Should garden berries be treated equally with vegetables and fruits, or should they be specifically excluded? Of course, the most important garden berry in this case is strawberry. Is it deliberately excluded, or is there some kind of linguistic problem here? Do you think it is the will of the Riigikogu that strawberry growers lose their support, or should they be inside here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U210	Thank you for your question. The answer is simple. I haven't written this text here, it's from the Ministry of Rural Affairs. And I have not really asked the Minister for Rural Affairs whether he has taken up strawberry farming down here or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U211	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U212	Good President! Dear waitress, I would like to ask you to take all the questions seriously, not just those that Jürgen is trying to put to you. The questions are still about the amendments, and you can't come and say that, uh, everything is some kind of consolidation. In that case, the whole amendment could look like a consolidation error and forget what you are asking for. So I would still like to know from you, for example, about Amendments 3 and 10. If you compare them, can you explain to me what their commonality and coincidence or difference are?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U213	Thank you. I hope that on the financial side you will be home and understand that if errors were made in the budget in 2019, which has been carried forward to 2020, these errors will now be corrected. I can explain it to you again. If the areas of government have done business with each other and in consolidation it has been recorded as double transactions, which should not be included in this budget, then on both points you ask about, improvements have been made so that these double transactions do not exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U214	Honourable Riigikogu! I would remind you that according to § 68 (1) of our Home and Working Procedures Act, all members of the Riigikogu are able to ask two questions. How? Sorry, I think there was a procedural question, I understand. In that case, yes, in Taavi's garment, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U215	Thank you for that kind reminder. That is exactly the right I am using to ask another question. The answer to my first question, of course, was not appropriate. I deliberately emphasised that according to the data of the Ministry of Finance (these data have also been published in summer forecast materials for example) already in January and February, or significantly before the Korona reached Estonia or our neighbouring countries, the budget was very negative compared to the planned budget. I'm sure you can't justify that with a corona. But my second question concerns the improvement of this particular budget in the light of the corona. Can you, with your heart, say that all sectors of the economy received sufficient help with these changes? Can you say to your heart that the Estonian health sector is fully prepared for this current wave, that it did not fail to make any of the financial allocations that would have been necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U216	Thank you. On the one hand, the additional budget provided quite a large amount of funds to this year's budget, as well as resources to the government reserve, so that decisions can be made quickly if necessary. Will all sectors get as much as they want? Certainly, no state budget is in such a way that all one hundred percent of their wishes can be met. Tomorrow is on the government's agenda, I looked at the additional grant of 5 million in the tourism sector. When we discuss today whether it is possible to maintain the tourism sector from the state budget for a whole year, from hotels to shipping and everything else, there is certainly a need to find more resources. These decisions must then be made right here in the Riigikogu. But the extra budget has given the government the ability and the opportunity to make quick decisions. For example, the spring unemployment fund measure saved the business sector a great deal. Today, too, there are certainly problems in many sectors where additional help may be needed, and these decisions must be taken if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U217	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U218	Mr. Waitress! My fellow Members' questions, which concerned this 12 million and its distribution, are very well founded. The agreement of the Committee on Rural Affairs was that we talked about 12 million, but we talked very conditionally about what this distribution could be. We have a bill ahead of us, which we are going to approve, the law, and here is the planned budget breakdown. How do you describe it, how flexible is this planned distribution? When it comes to discussing what to actually do with this 12 million, can it be flexibly changed, not that it has already been stoned in the law? How much flexibility does this word "planned" provide?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U219	Thank you. The Minister for Rural Affairs will finally make this division by means of a regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U220	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U221	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! My question also comes from the questions of my fellow Members, to which there was no real answer. Amendment 7, penultimate line. A simple question: gardening (kitchen and fruit ha) - where did this text come from? Did it come from the Ministry of Rural Affairs, or has it come from the Ministry of Finance, just what's in brackets? A lot has been said about strawberries and garden berries. After all, these brackets completely exclude the payment of aid to strawberry growers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U222	Thank you. The proposal came from the Ministry of Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U223	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U224	Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I still have to ask. In spring, when we discussed the revision of the 2020 budget for the first time here in April, you very much understood that some cuts would come, because the loan money could not live forever, and the high spending levels would be transferred from this year to the next years. I mean, there could have been some small cuts. We know that the planes did not fly, the missions were canceled and the ministries could also save on the costs of the buildings, the events were canceled. You have, as you have suggested, that in the autumn, no autumn has become winter, yet there will be some kind of cutbacks. But why did you decide to give up these cuts?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U225	Thank you, good Aivar! It is wonderful if the Committee on Monetary Affairs or the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs alone can make decisions on whether or not there are cuts. But what I can say is that we have been discussing the state budget for 2021, which has reduced the money of all ministries' sectors by 1.7% and is aimed at improving IT solutions. In the other way, a clear message has been made during the RES debate that there must also be savings points in next year's RES discussions, i.e. those places must be included in the 2022 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U226	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. Now we're opening negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups can speak. I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Andres Sut Reform Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U227	Thank you, good manager. Good Riigikogu! I think that this debate that we have just had here is very well characterised by this reason and sums up very well why we cannot vote in favour of this draft in today's final vote. There are four reasons for this. Firstly, the national budget for 2020 adopted at the end of last year, according to the forecasts at that time, was an economic cycle-boosting, not levelling. The aim at that time would have been to establish a structural surplus. If that had been the case, we would have been better prepared for possible unexpected events. And as we know today, there was an unexpected, and a pretty big one. In March, it became clear that the world is facing the greatest health crisis of the last hundred years. The objective of the additional budget for 2020 was absolutely right: to cushion the impact of this crisis. There were measures that worked well, which we have repeatedly emphasised, for example, the unemployment fund measure. However, we certainly cannot say the same about the measures taken by KredEx and the Rural Promotion Foundation. KredEx's guarantees were designed to make their use very small in practice. However, it would have been the sureties that would have had the greatest impact on the euro contributed by the taxpayer. The country also became a bank. Direct loans issued in a hurry have highlighted shortcomings in the rules on lending and the capacity of the organisation in both the MES and KredEx. The National Audit Office has published a critical report on the MES and the KredEx report awaits a follow-up to publication. In addition, the government took on the role of the credit committee by granting large direct loans, and that is not the case. That is another reason why we do not support this draft. Thirdly, in spring, the coalition made a commitment to review the operating costs of the public sector and to find savings. That, too, was just mentioned. It would have been perfectly appropriate to show solidarity with the private sector. Nor can we find this promise being fulfilled in this budget. The reality is that the government did not have the capacity, capacity or willingness to accelerate investment in projects that generate future growth. However, it is precisely such investments in associations, digital solutions, research, development, innovation that will help Estonia emerge stronger and more successful from the crisis. The fourth reason has been through here many times. Let us look at the amendments. This debate was not transparent. This is not acceptable. The same 12 million for agricultural support and this distribution plan was presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs as the discharge agreed by the Committee on Rural Affairs. Actually, that wasn't the case. According to the protocol of the Committee on Rural Affairs, the Minister for Rural Affairs confirmed that the distribution plan was provisional and that it would only be agreed in December. That doesn't work! And that is another reason to support this initiative, which Maris Lauri defended today, in order to achieve greater budgetary transparency and comprehension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U228	Thank you. The political groups have no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. Let us review the amendments, which are one. It has been presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendments have been examined and we will come to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the National Budget Act 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U229	There are 53 members of the Riigikogu, 10 against and 2 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U230	Let's go to the next item. Second reading of the draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN), initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic, on the Grant of Membership at the Pre-Accession Stage, with CERN. I would like to ask Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Economic Commission, to speak here. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U231	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, do not leave the room, this bill is a two-reading bill, so now, I hope, we are going to vote. No amendments were tabled by any committee or colleagues on the draft law. Therefore, the Commission's debate was relatively short. It was stated that no amendments came and we will proceed with the first reading text. The decision was taken to put the draft on the plenary agenda today and to hold a final vote (consensus). That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U232	Dear waitress, thank you. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? No, it's not. Then we go to the final vote. Can we go to the vote? Let me remind you that this bill needs a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law. I am voting on the draft Act 230 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic, and the CERN, on the granting of the status of associate member at the pre-accession stage. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U233	There are 73 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U234	Okay. We have reached the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic entitled "Accepting the State's Summary Report for the financial year 2019." The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U235	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the preparation of the second reading on 16 and 23 November. The members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and the committees of the Riigikogu did not propose any amendments to the draft by the deadline of 20 November at 5.15 p.m. No opinion was received from the Special Committee on the Audit of the National Budget of the Riigikogu on the consolidated report of the financial year. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the second reading of the draft on the agenda by Wednesday, 25 November inclusive, to propose that the second reading be closed and the final vote taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U236	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U237	Thank you. It is widely known that, when the 2019 budget was made, it was established that the budget had to be balanced. And then, when it was time to read the chicks, it was discovered that the budget had gone to a huge disadvantage. I have a simple question: what happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U238	Thank you. I have to say, unfortunately, that in the debate on the 2019 budget, I was not in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and could not justify why such decisions were taken at that moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U239	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U240	The present draft decision at first reading was the Minister of Finance and I asked him where the loan money went, because last year it took a lot of credit. He replied that it became a contribution to the capital of Eesti Energia. We began to examine this matter more closely and received official confirmation from the Ministry of Finance to the Finance Committee that no contributions were made to Eesti Energia in 2019. But where did the loan go? In short, we were misinformed, and it has not been settled to this day. You didn't want to explain it here either. But where did the loan go anyway? The debt burden increased by 183 million euros. But I have a question about investment. The report black and white states that government investment decreased. As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, how do you comment on this? Debts were taken, the economy was growing, tax revenue was coming over the edge and investments were falling.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U241	Thank you. We are talking, Aivar, about the 2019 budget, which was dealt with by the Riigikogu in 2018, before the Riigikogu elections. What decisions were made? I remember, Aivar, that you were in the Committee on Monetary Affairs at the time. I was the chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee at the time. I cannot say, unfortunately, why such decisions were made at such a time or whether such decisions should have been made differently, and what was the reason why some investments were not made in the public sector. I know why, for example, it will not be possible to make certain investments next year, because projects are simply not ready. But why such decisions were made in 2018 and why they could not be fulfilled in 2019, I cannot, Aivar, answer you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U242	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U243	Thank you. Your human modesty has led you to complete irrationality. You say you don't know anything about making last year's budget. However, last year you were promoted to lead monetary policy in the coalition, the same coalition was basically in the process of making this budget, the Minister of Finance was from your party, and you say that you do not know anything! You have been chairman of the committee for only one year, and you know about finances for only one year. It's too modest. Take it back. How do you generally appreciate it? This is the annual report. If the result of the financial year is 2.3% of the structural minus, which is unspeakable because the year was decent, are you assessing the financial year as successful or not? Now show your true wisdom, which is why you have been promoted to this position.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U244	Thank you, Jurgen! It is certainly not good practice to adopt a budget and to forecast a balanced budget, but by the end of the year it turns out that, in the absence of a recession, the budget went into a structural deficit. We acknowledge that this was a poorly projected budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U245	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U246	Thank you. I remember doing this budget well because I was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs at the time. I also remember the criticism of the opposition. We unambiguously said that there is a bluff on the revenue side of this budget. We recall that the bluff also went on to 2020, 2021 and 2022 in the budget strategy that accompanied it. This 2.3% structural minus, at a time when the economy was growing, is, you can say, the worst budget in history since the restoration of Estonia's independence, of course. My question continues to be: what went so wrong? Where were fundamental mistakes made? I am absolutely certain that, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you are still looking at a little bit of past experience. There must have been some very gross mistakes. Where did you know they were?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U247	Thank you. The revenue base was clearly forecasted to be larger than 2019, and that is where the minus came from. The cost in 2019 was not reduced, despite a decrease in revenue. Well, we have noticed that just a constant monthly income, revenue and expenditure side is not clearly available and visible in order to make decisions quickly if necessary. Unfortunately, the state budget is not able to make decisions as quickly as it usually is in the private sector or in its home household.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U248	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U249	Thank you. However, I have no doubt that in such a high position, you know Estonian finances excellently. Since the budget adopted at the end of 2016, the Estonian budget has gone down the path of increasing the deficit. There is a budget with a deficit and the result has always been even more negative. How do you estimate it broadly anyway? Is it an accident or a gravity that these graphs go down on the noise? Maybe your promotion is because you have to take care of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U250	Thank you, Jurgen! Certainly one of the issues that caused the fight and debate in the Riigikogu during the previous term, and which has also caused a deficit in the budget, has been the hope that it will be possible to increase the budget by increasing the various excise duties. I believe that a lot of people in this Chamber contested this at the time, but since this increase in excise duties was often linked to the adoption of the state budget, it was also difficult for coalition politicians to argue against these issues at that point. Now these errors have been corrected and too high excise duties have been lowered. It can also be seen that the result is that some lines have started to improve considerably this year, compared to what was a few years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U251	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions. Honourable Riigikogu, I'm opening negotiations. I'd like Aivar Sõerdi in this chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U252	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The state's annual report is a routine accounting document, but there are mistakes here too. As the National Audit Office points out, the amounts of part of the 2019 State Budget Act passed in the Riigikogu were incorrect. The State Budget Act is part of this report. The Ministry of Finance submitted a draft containing errors to the Riigikogu, such a comment has been made by the National Audit Office on this report. However, the National Audit Office does not consider these errors to be so important as not to make an assessment. Moreover, the accounting assessment of this report is that the country's annual accounts for the financial year 2019 fairly reflects the state's financial position, the economic result of the reporting period ending and the cash flows. The auditor's assessment is correct and fair from an accounting perspective, but the picture of what this accounting document is essentially about is ugly. What's the matter? The point is that 2019 was a very economical year. If I remember correctly, a 2% growth was taken into account in the state budget; in fact, last year's economic growth was 4.3%. Tax revenues were more than expected, tax revenues increased by 9.4%. That was a really great time compared to the present. However, the budget was negative. The structural minus, which is covered by the budget law, obliged the same law to reduce 0.5%, as the year before 2018, was an excessive deficit in the sense of the law. I remember that when these discussions were here, we asked what are the measures that will reduce this structural deficit. We didn't get the right answer to that. The Minister of Finance just carelessly commented that, uh, we did a little bit of euro change here, pushed things forward, in short, a wide arsenal of all the things that were used to improve the budgetary position. This is the result: in fact, the fiscal position did not improve and, instead of complying with the legal requirement, the structural deficit increased, as mentioned here, to 2.3% of GDP after correction, after updating the data. Initially, there are 1.9% structural minuses in this report. What conclusions can we draw from this? You see, right now we are hearing that borrowing is noble and nice and good for all countries to take. Yes, this is a time of crisis, the situation has changed. But it is forgotten that 2019 was a very beautiful time, and many countries that are now being set as examples to look, they are borrowing, many of the Member States of the European Union reduced the debt burden and strengthened the budget in these good times. Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U253	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U254	They strengthened the budgetary position and took advantage of this time, but Estonia did not do so. We also learned that the debt burden increased by 183 million euros last year, when we went out of these figures, it is not quite clear from this report. I remember when we dealt with this draft decision here, I asked the Minister of Finance where the loan money went. He said it went into the capital of Eesti Energia. Actually, it didn't. It was in the budget, but with this oil factory it is that the government's strong steps towards developing the oil industry have not gone as successfully and quickly as planned, and the capital allocation of Eesti Energia has moved to this year. But I still needed the loan money. At the same time, we read in the report that, for example, government investment decreased. So the essence of the picture is very ugly. Now that we hear that loans must be taken and taken by everyone, it is forgotten that responsible fiscal policy is still such that, if there are good times, the budget will be strengthened and buffers collected to survive more difficult times. Many countries did, unfortunately Estonia did not last year. In fact, this was such a foreplay of loose fiscal policy in 2019; the first steps were already taken in this direction, which has led us to be among the Member States with the largest budget deficits. Now that's a meaningful summary of it. I'd like to vote against this whole thing, but since it's an accounting document, an accounting report, I don't think you can vote against it. But you don't have to vote for it either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U255	No more words, I'll close the negotiations. As no amendments were tabled, we cannot review them. The commission has proposed a final vote of 247 on the draft. That's what we're going to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic on the approval of the State's summary report for the financial year 2019 247. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U256	There are 52 members of the Riigikogu, there is no one against and there are 1 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Next we go to the Government of the Republic of Estonia submitted the decision of the Riigikogu... Jürgen Ligi, please, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U257	Yeah, I think it's a procedural question. This concerns the amendment to the 2020 budget that we have adopted here. According to my estimates, you, as the head of the Riigikogu, may comment on this, I think it is of general interest that this budget should also include an unfairly high severance allowance for two members of the Riigikogu, with their consent, which they should return. Now I'm reading the news that it hasn't been returned, and they're supposed to use this money as their own money at their discretion. Is this in line with the policy of the Riigikogu Board? I hear there was an initiative from the office. If it's the other way around, is it true that they donate the money and get the tax back from the donation? What's politics? Has the Board of the Riigikogu discussed this? This is indeed about the 2020 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U258	Thank you. It was not a procedural question, so I might not answer. But indeed, the law provides that the members of the Riigikogu who leave the Riigikogu will receive compensation. If they return to the Riigikogu as an alternate, they are not obliged to pay back this money. But the first of those people you're talking about, I don't think I've kept the money. We're talking Urmas Espenberg about EKRE, he's already donated it for charity. The other is a Korobenik, who has promised to do the same on the basis of the papers or information that I know of. So this has been done in accordance with the rules we have adopted. The Riigikogu has no so-called separate policy on this issue. But, Jürgen Ligi, I hope this is a procedural question now, otherwise I won't answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U259	But try to decipher it when a person chooses to embellish himself by promoting it like a donation, and after that donation, you can also get your income tax back. Is this supposed to be the policy that the Riigikogu is pursuing? He gets half a year's compensation for ten days, and he's acting like a benefactor...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U260	Jürgen Ligi, this is not a procedural question. This can be discussed in the costaires. But let's move on to our agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U261	And we are at the Riigikogu's resolution "Accepting the State's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" submitted by the Government of the Republic with number 262. First reading. The rapporteur is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, who has 30 minutes for the presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U262	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! Thank you very much for the opportunity to be before you with a document as important as "Estonia 2035." Do we know what life will be like in Estonia in 2035? I believe that this is very difficult to predict. However, I am sure that today we have the opportunity to make the choices and decisions that shape Estonia in the future. In this way we will be helped by the country's newly prepared long and strategic view, a plan that sets Estonia development goals, their ambition and additional tasks. The country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" is a strategy for co-creation and cooperation. This is the first one which, across sectors, gives a comprehensive view of guiding the country's long-term development through strategic planning and financial management processes. Given the possibilities of public finances, Estonia needs to focus its future more strongly than has been the case so far and to overcome the challenges that affect the lives of all of us. During the two years, several thousand people participated in the "Estonia 2035" process: experts, scientists, entrepreneurs, officials, teachers, politicians, local governments, representatives of different target groups and ordinary Estonian people. They found time and will to discuss and analyse the main development needs of our country, in which Estonia we want to live in the future and what we need to do to make our wishes a reality. "Estonia 2035" is a strategy supporting cooperation between the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic. The general part of the strategy is approved by the Riigikogu, the implementation plan of the Republic Government. From now on, each minister will stand on this floor at least once a year, giving you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, an overview of the progress and bottlenecks in your field. The strategy "Estonia 2035" has been prepared on the basis of forecasts of global trends and an analysis of Estonia's future situation. On the basis of these, the Strategy identifies nine equally important development needs, identifies threats and opportunities. The Riigikogu Development Monitoring Centre has played a key role in forecasting Estonia's future choices. Reports have been used as analytical sources from a number of international organisations, such as the OECD, the European Commission, the Joint Research Centre, the European Parliament and others. The focus of the "Estonia 2035" strategy is five strategic goals, based on the fundamental principles and formulated Estonia as it should be in 2035. In order to reach these goals and meet development needs, changes in almost all areas of life will be necessary in the coming years. The largest of these necessary changes is described in the general part of "Estonia 2035." A more detailed list of activities is set out in the Action Plan implementing the Strategy, which will be reviewed and updated annually by the government. The Action Plan sets out the necessary indicators, together with benchmarks that well reflect the complexity of the challenges we face. "Estonia 2035" is closely linked to the coordination of the European economy, which is the basis for planning the European Union's resources and provides direction for the implementation of global sustainable development goals in this lovely Estonia. "Estonia 2035" brings together these previously stand-alone processes under one roof, reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens. The number of development plans in the field supporting the implementation of the strategy has also been reduced nearly twice. Members of the Riigikogu! The country's long-term development strategy is based on a fundamental principle that is consistent with our constitution, laws and existing strategic development documents. "Estonia 2035" has been prepared taking into account the fundamentals of national security policy, the fundamentals of cultural policy, as well as all other documents adopted today by the Riigikogu. The most important goal of Estonia is to remain a democratic and secure country, where the Estonian nation, language and culture are preserved and developed. We will achieve this objective by pursuing five strategic objectives. First of all, our goal is that smart, active and healthy people live in Estonia. The population of Estonia has decreased by slightly more than 240000 people over the last 30 years, and according to the main scenario of Statistics Estonia's population forecast, it will decrease by some 24000 more by 2035. The total birth rate has improved somewhat over the last five years. We should not consider changes in the population to be inevitable, but, as a society, we should find the right way to react to it. Population forecast says that in 2035 one in four people in Estonia will be 65 years old or older, and in 15 years we will have 2.3 people of working age instead of three. This means a significant rethink of existing working practices, lifelong learning processes, as well as health and social services. In order for an Estonian person to be inquisitive, creative and entrepreneurial throughout his life, to have the will to learn and the willingness to change the nature of the work, we will focus our education on flexibility and the needs of the learner. Formal education needs to be integrated into non-formal and general vocational education. It is necessary to create new forms of study, facilitate transitions between different forms of study and develop smart educational resources that, among other things, support teaching in Estonian. We'll continue to clean up the school network. Companies need a sufficient number of skilled workers to change their regular occupations. People, however, need world-class knowledge and skills to be ready for the work of the future. To this end, we will upgrade the adult education system and further develop the skills and needs forecasting system OSKA. The education system must take the same footstep as the labour market needs. In order to ensure the sustainability of the health system, we need to do something completely different from what we have done so far, in a new way. Although life expectancy in Estonia has increased to an average of 78,8 years old, life expectancy has not increased over the last ten years. In 2019 this figure was on average 55.9 years old. In half of the cases, loss of human health is due to risk factors or risk behaviour, including the use of mental poisons, unbalanced diet, excessive body weight and lack of physical activity. Why do we ruin our own health? Estonia allocated 6.7% of GDP to health expenditure in 2019. The European Union had a corresponding average of 9.87% at the time. The report by the recently published Development Monitoring Centre predicts that by 2035 the annual deficit of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund will amount to 900 million euros for current funding and services, as costs will increase much faster than revenues. The country needs to work for the health of its people, but it cannot do it alone, because money alone is not enough. All of us need to take care of our physical and mental health as well as that of others. We need to reduce risk behaviour and make health-conscious decisions. More attention needs to be paid to promoting the right choices and prevention. The integration of health and social services and the use of personal medicine solutions will contribute to this. There is a very large consensus in Estonia to promote public health education and to alleviate employment issues, especially in the light of the current corona virus. We have a keen sense of how much it gives a head start in a healthy lifestyle, such as non-smoking, moderate health sports and a strong immune system. However, proper education, experience and professional skills are essential in the context of environmentally sound economic conditions. This is a goal that unites the Estonian people, and the solutions and thoughts that have been put forward are always waiting for more. Secondly, our goal is that Estonian society is caring, cooperative and open. All Estonian people must have the opportunity to make themselves known and participate in society. Every member of society must feel supported and valued both by other people and by the state. It is also important that all of Estonia's permanent residents and our fellow people living elsewhere feel united with Estonia. That is what binds us as a society, a nation and a state. In order to ensure a sustainable population, we are shaping a comprehensive population and family policy in support of birth and parenthood. The government has initiated a development plan for this purpose. It is a joy that the number of third-born children in the family has increased since 2016. While 2019 children were born the third child in 2015, 2231 children were born in 2016 and 2773 children were born last year. When designing policies, we take into account the well-being of families throughout the child-rearing period. In order to ensure the well-being of children, we will create positive parenthood solutions in cooperation between the state and local governments to prevent child abuse. We will update the child welfare organisation and support system for children with special needs. We develop services for children with complex problems and support the transition to family-based care. Integration of health and social services is a key factor in providing human-centred welfare services. To this end, we will improve cooperation between the state and local authorities and modernise the network of community services as well as hospitals and other health institutions. For example, we apply for funds from the European Union's re-launch financing for the construction of Tallinn Hospital and organise the primary health infrastructure. "Estonia 2035" pays attention to people in Estonia who have not yet been able to participate fully in society. As a country and society, we need to take greater account of people with special needs and their carers. To prevent long-term care needs, we develop a system of necessary services, including the introduction of the principle of early detection. In particular, care services provided at home and in the community are to be developed. To this end, with the help of training and job-based learning, we will increase the number of employees in the field of long-term care and increase their qualifications. It is also necessary to ensure that participation opportunities, joint activities, various cultural events and other forms of recreation are available to nationalists from all over Estonia and abroad. We create opportunities for the preservation and development of our culture and appreciate the leaders of our culture. Culture unites people. We also encourage the use of regional models of Estonian. This will improve the competitiveness of the regions and strengthen local identity. Let's not take the opportunity for children to argue whether the snow is still packing, getting together or taking a piece of cake. Thirdly, our goal is that the Estonian economy is strong, innovative and responsible. The Estonian economy is strongly integrated into the European Union's single market in both products and services. Estonian labour productivity has increased in the last ten years and reached 78.6% of the European Union average, but this growth has been regionally uneven and for various reasons slower than expected. The target set for 2020 was 80% of the EU average, with a target of 110% of the EU average set for 2035 being an ambition that requires significant changes in this area. Unlike other European Union countries, productivity in our manufacturing industry is lower than that in the service sector. The continuation of structural changes in the economy is essential. Yeah, we've been talking about this for years, but how do we achieve all this? I am pleased that the public contribution to R &amp; D in next year's budget has increased to 1% of the projected GDP. However, the share of R &amp; D expenditure by Estonian companies in GDP is currently 0.59%, or well below the average in the European Union, which is 1.45%. In order to ensure international competitiveness, R &amp; D and, of course, innovation, as well as cooperation between researchers, companies and other institutions, must grow considerably in Estonia. To this end, we will develop new innovation services and subsidies for all stages of the development of businesses and technologies. We will also increase the R &amp; D investment of national companies. Our goal is to become a successful promoter, implementr and experimentator of research and development in selected areas in the world, thereby helping the knowledge born by Estonian research institutions to reach entrepreneurship more quickly. In order to ensure closer cooperation between research institutions and companies in areas relevant to the Estonian economy, we are developing sectoral R &amp; D programmes. For example, smart energy solutions, local resources, be it wood, food, land resources, ICT or different green technologies. Let's rethink the smart specialisation options. This means that the digital sector, health technologies, the enhancement of local resources, content will be updated and smart and sustainable energy solutions will be added as a new area. Estonia's strength in the world is the use of digital technologies in the public sector and the resulting ease of administration. We turn Estonia into a digital centre in the world, where both e-residency in virtual space and physical presence will come. Still to offer our services on the world market and to set up businesses. We intend to support the digitisation and automation of businesses. To this end, we can use both the structural resources of the European Union for the new period and the resources of the European Re-launch Facility. Estonia's opportunity is also a more strategic contribution to the enhancement of local resources. According to 2017 data, the resource productivity of Estonia's natural resources was 0.56 euros per kilogram, one of the smallest in Europe. The strategy aims to improve this indicator almost twice. To do that, you have to do something more or something different than today. In the wood sector, for example, more attention needs to be paid to the potential of wood chemistry to make more expensive finished products from local raw materials. The key question is how we use natural resources, whether we do it sustainably, cost-effectively and smartly, or whether we do it negligently. Good Riigikogu! Further development and deployment of more energy and resource efficient technologies is needed to support the greening of the economy. Setting up safer material circulation in construction, production and supply chains will reduce the use of chemicals and help us manage more sustainably. The training of experts in the circular economy supporting local authorities is also of little importance. The Estonian economy is one of the most emission-intensive in Europe. According to 2017 data, there is twice as much greenhouse gas emissions per euro of GDP as the average in the European Union. Although the total greenhouse gas emissions in Estonia have now decreased by 54% compared to 1990, we need to take important steps towards a climate-friendly economy. This means a restructuring of Estonia's energy production in the coming decade. Compared to 1990, oil shale mining has decreased by almost half. Today, the share of oil shale electricity has fallen by more than 60%, to 30%. In order to ensure a fair transition, we will develop and implement a package of services for Ida-Virumaa, which will help the inhabitants of the region, businesses and local authorities to benefit from the changes and reduce the socio-economic impacts. The fourth objective of the country is a well-designed, secure and high-quality living environment. We must follow the principles of creating quality space when shaping our living environment. This means that artistic, technological and economic solutions and the natural environment must form a balanced whole. Nobody probably wants to use light traffic routes that start out out of nowhere and lead to nowhere, or discover ourselves in ten years' time in a situation where we can no longer enter or move into buildings because of accessibility problems. We certainly want to swim in the Baltic Sea in the future and go to the Estonian forest for fungus. The quality of the living environment is reflected both in human-centred design and in the environmentally friendly nature of the materials used, such as the use of wood and other nature-friendly materials in buildings. It is undoubtedly important to ensure accessibility for all people throughout their life cycle for people with problems of movement or vision, but also for a child or a mother or father pushing a baby cart. The environment adapted to the changes in the population could also more support the physical activity of Estonian people and the health of our people. The transport sector plays an important role in improving the integration of modes of movement, improving people's mobility and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. For example, we create infrastructure to switch to clean vehicles, electrify, explore and, if possible, develop hydrogen technology. In order to support the development of the Estonian economy, we develop fast, international and domestic transport connections that increase safety and improve economic opportunities. In 2035 the fixed link between the mainland and Muhu County could have been completed and the freight transport of the European route from Estonia would have moved to Rail Baltic trains. Fifthly, Estonia's goal is an innovative, reliable and human-centred state. All public services must be accessible, accessible and of high quality for people in both physical and digital spaces. All this regardless of his place of residence, age, special needs or other characteristics. The availability and quality of services are essential for people. There should be no difference as to whether the service is provided by the State or by a local authority. It is therefore planned to review the distribution of responsibilities at national and local level in the provision of services and to strengthen the partnership between the state and local authorities. The people of Estonia are expecting more and more high-quality public services. It is the duty of the rulers to offer them. Our aim is to make public services as automated as possible, i.e. operational and predictable in the background, while making safe use of all the data available to the state. For example, the state can automatically control the right to family benefits from last year. People do not need to make a state offer for parental benefit with only one click. This must be the ease of use for people. While we were just planning the use of artificial intelligence in the provision of public services a few years ago, by the end of this year we have a public service with 50 artificial intelligence components: for example, the identification of clear cutting, the identification of tree species, the calculation of forest maturity, chatbots, the keyword of the national library's digital archives and much more. In 15 years' time, such services could form the majority of our daily services. The introduction of innovative solutions and the preference of modern technologies are precisely what has brought Estonia success and will help us to be large in the world. We will continue to focus on Estonia's strengths, building on achievements in digital culture, sport and other fields. Strong alliances in the field of security are equally important. Estonia's contribution to NATO and the European Union is the main guarantor of our security. In addition, we develop comprehensive national defence, cyber security, improve society's preparedness for crises and resistance to hostile influences and hybrid threats. We provide the infrastructure necessary for the allies to be present and make the order of military service more appropriate to people's abilities. Honourable Riigikogu, every thorn counts. To conclude: these five strategic goals, but let the whole "Estonia 2035" be before us in the future whenever we make choices and make important decisions. The general part of "Estonia 2035" that you will discuss in the coming weeks, the Honourable Riigikogu, is like a road map of our values. There is a great consensus on these values in the country, because they are characteristic and important to the Estonian people. The concrete steps are set out in the "Estonia 2035" action plan, which will be completed by the Government of the Republic and renewed if necessary. It must be improved and changed in the future, because the environment around us is always changing. Every country has to make constant efforts to succeed. The lesson learned during the production of "Estonia 2035" is that Estonia does not need a shiny slogan or a campaign to give the country a purpose. The long-term plan of the state must first and foremost be human-centred, touching all Estonian people in the same way. This result has been well achieved in the strategy paper, since one of us has not been affected by health, education, public space, the natural environment, the economy, defence, culture, family, children or the labour market. The country's long-term development strategy must address the objective challenges facing the country and lead life forward. It must bear the values and goals that unite society, while leaving us all the freedom to choose the path to reach these goals. It is not worth looking for familiar linearity in private sector strategies. The governance of the state is much more multifaceted. In these thoughts, I believe that the Riigikogu finds a good consensus in the discussions on "Estonia 2035." I wish you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, a lot of strength and a lot of good and strong cooperation for these discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U263	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have a lot of questions. First, please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U264	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Prime Minister! The aim of a coherent society, and that is precisely in education, we have long tried to speak and stand up for it and, through the draft, also to do action for the transition to education in Estonian. Here is the sentence "In order to create equal opportunities in education and the labour market, we update adaptation and integration services, education arrangements and language learning for learners with a different language... " Does this sentence mean a transition to a common education in Estonian or not? If not, what does modernisation mean in this case? When can the time come when a common Estonian language education is up to date?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U265	Thank you. When it comes to education in Estonian, the transition to education in Estonian, which you asked about, there are places in this "Estonia 2035" strategy that I wish to point out. First of all, the Strategy Paper states, under the basic principles, that the basis for reaching the targets is a democratic and secure state founded on freedom, justice and justice, which respects the principles of the legal and social state and where the Estonian nation, language and culture are preserved and developed. We also say in this document that we have presented to you, the honourable Riigikogu, that the Estonian language must remain viable, including the main language of information, education and work. Everyone must have equal opportunities for self-realisation and participation in society, regardless of individual characteristics and needs, membership of different social groups, socio-economic capacity and residence. The strategy paper also states that when we talk about how we make education a learner-driven and flexible system, it relates specifically to skills and the labour market, the principle is that we support teaching in Estonian, while developing digital educational resources in Estonian for all levels of education and lifelong learning. As I said, alongside the strategy, the important document is also the action plan "Estonia 2035." And in the action plan "Estonia 2035" we see a chapter that states that we are increasing social cohesion and equal opportunities in education and the labour market, that the Ministry of Education is responsible for developing a plan for the development of education in Estonian from pre-primary education onwards and that the duty of the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs is to modernise the teaching arrangements for people of different native languages in early childhood education, general education, vocational training institutions and non-formal learning. In answering this question, I would also like to point out that, as we talk about development plans, as far as I know, the honourable Riigikogu, right now, there are also two development plans on your desk that the government has sent to you. One is the development plan for the field of education 2021-2035, which has been approved by the government on 29 October and submitted to you for discussion, and the other is the development plan for the Estonian language sector 2021-2035, which has also been submitted to the Riigikogu on 29 October 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U266	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U267	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You guys talk so long and so nice, I lost it for a second. But these strategies must be what they are. Personally, the words "come" and "should" are very disturbing to me. They're exactly like, if you want to, we do, and if we don't, we don't. Somehow it leaves this kind of... But it has to be. My question, given today's situation in Estonia and the world at all, is this: do you think that suddenly, in a year's time, this whole thing will have to be reviewed and we will have to set new goals and strategies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U268	Thank you. I apologise for the length of time I answered, but I think that the question of the honourable member of the Riigikogu, Yoko Alender, was important and it is very important that this is fixed in the two documents I was talking about. Now, would it or should it? We must take into account that Estonia has never had such a roof strategy before that I introduced to you in my speech. It's a first. I think that the strategy and the action plan can, and I think, must also be reviewed and updated. This day of November 25, 2020. In the Lord's year, we hardly know how to record what's going on in 2035. And it is meant to be that the Riigikogu reviews the strategy from time to time and the government reviews the action plan. As I have pointed out, the action plan will be an important document in the planning of the state budget and the state budget strategy. I also said that now our proposal to you is your decision to always have at least once a year each minister before this House with his priorities and with his areas of action. Certainly that means, I think, updating and reviewing the strategy at a certain time. Now that you are talking about an international situation that is really very changing and very worrying, there is indeed a great deal of turbulence, it is certainly our desire that at least those international organisations and allies that exist so that they remain reliable and develop further. I am thinking precisely of the European Union and NATO. If we come to the strategy, our international position is well written in the strategy. There is indeed our desire to improve the international position of the country and to ensure security and security. For example, we say that the important direction is the integrity of Estonia's foreign policy to ensure Estonia's prominent position in the world and to maintain strong alliances. We also state that we focus on sharing Estonia's strengths with the world, building on Estonia's achievements in different fields. We also consider it important that we ensure the necessary infrastructure for the allies to be present and that we make the order of military service more responsive to human abilities. We also consider it important to increase the ability to resist threats to constitutional order, including hybrid threats and hostile influence. In the government's action plan, which goes hand in hand with the same document, we have highlighted the international position that you dealt with in the field of cyber and digital, education, health services, safe food, culture and sport, related experience sharing with the rest of the world and using development cooperation opportunities. We also state that, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture, it is important to promote global Estonianhood and support the visibility and accessibility of Estonian culture abroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U269	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U270	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I did not hear the words 'rural life' and 'agricultural' in your speech, although you say that these development strategies and plans should be linked. From this maybe such a hypothetical question as whether the rural area is destined to die out. Secondly, I noticed on page 29, which describes the prospects for growth over a decade, such a thing. It is written that economic growth will be very modest, falling below 2% over the next ten years. One of the main reasons is the decline in population. But what you're doing in the government right now doesn't count on these things at all. I am talking about meeting the Aliens Act and the additional labour needs. In fact, it supports the wealth of all the people when we have jobs here, even though some jobs are filled with foreign labour. This will give us additional jobs for the entire population. To what extent are your words and actions still consistent?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U271	Thank you, Mr. Kruuse. First of all, when we talk about agriculture, it is considered as part of the strategy as part of the economy. If you open strategic goals, the third in this order is the economy: the Estonian economy is strong, innovative and responsible. In this part of the economy, as I said, it is written, and it is really important to us that we try to internationalise. We are doing everything we can to ensure that Estonia is internationally strong and able to increase its competitiveness. We certainly consider it important to offer these development opportunities in different regions. We also say that the Estonian economy is innovative and knowledge-based, using new technologies and business models and flexible forms of work. In the case of technologies, it is also very clearly linked to agriculture and rural areas at all. Speaking of the economy, we say that favourable conditions for entrepreneurship, R &amp; D and innovation have been created. Science and businesses work together even better. It's all in here. Now that you are talking about the demographic issue of whether today's policy in any way supports its solution, I would like to mention the statistics that I have been able to find out for today's performance. The truth is that the change in population is, in my opinion, one of the most fundamental or most important factors for us. Estonia should not be a country or a country with a shrinking population. If we look at the various years, we can see that the change in Estonia's population, if we compare it as at 1 January of the previous year, was in 2015 between 2548 people. It was +2673 in 2016, +2673 in 2017, +34998 in 2018, +5687 in 2019 and +4156 in 2020. This shows that people have actually started to return to Estonia from the wide world and consider Estonia's living environment to be sufficiently safe, confident enough to come back here. It is very, very pleasant that the return migration has actually increased. Now, as regards the action plan, I am sorry that I am always dealing with two documents at the same time, but I think that this is very, very important in this case, the action plan also states nicely about, for example, the activities of bio-economic development, which we see here as the next steps. It is under the economic and climate domain. What else do I want to say about the Estonian population? I have already mentioned this in my speech, and I would like to point it out once more to you, Mr Kruuse, in reply. In my mind, we have a really very positive trend lately. When we talk about the number of births and, above all, the number of births of third children in the family, it has grown. While 2019 children were born the third child in 2015, 2231 children were born in 2016 and 2773 children were born in 2019. It is, I think, a sure sign that families with many children also feel secure in our living environment. It is very important and a priority to agree that the family is growing. These are the keywords that I would like to highlight to you in response to the question of agriculture and the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U272	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U273	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! There is a long list of Estonia's development needs in this strategy. I'll bring out one. The health and life expectancy of people in Estonia are, as we know, an area of concern to everyone. And as one of the interesting information here, it stands out that by 2035 the cost of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund will increase almost 24% faster than the cost of income by maintaining the current level of services. I don't know exactly what the math is. The description of the necessary changes in this development plan states that we will ensure that people are covered by adequate medical coverage and that healthcare funding is sustainable, which will support the availability of health services, medicines and medical devices and reduce treatment queues. How do you think this will be possible, and when will the increase in the share of health insurance, which has been 13% for a long time, come into play in the social tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U274	Thank you. I'm trying to answer that question. If you look at the health insurance fund's expenses first and we apply different criteria to them, then, for example, the health care fund's share of GDP was 4.7% in 2015, 4.8% in 2016 and 6.0% in 2020. This year's forecast, I stress the word 'forecast', is that this figure is actually 6.1% and will also be 6.1% next year. In order to reduce the burden on the health care system, different development efforts are needed. At all, it is necessary to engage in various activities so that people are less ill. I also mentioned personal medicine in my speech, but I also noted consumption habits such as the use of mind poisons. It is extremely important that we live a healthy life longer. Even in the current crisis, we saw... Or not foresaw it, but statistics say that in the next four years the income base of the Health Insurance Fund will fall by over EUR 500 million as a result of the downfalls. If I am not mistaken, that amount was EUR 540 million. There was a proposal for exceptional compensation, and this was supported by the government. You asked if it was meant to increase the share of health insurance. I understand that you are talking about social tax and that this insurance scheme could increase by 13%. I think these debates are very appropriate when discussing this strategy until 2035. It's almost 15 years. But I believe that perhaps it would be right to hold these debates, the honourable Riigikogu, when we are again on the eve of the Riigikogu elections. These are, in fact, debates on tax changes, debates on the rise in the tax burden. But I really don't want to say it's the wrong debate. On the contrary, I think that this is a necessary debate and it must be held already before the 2023 Riigikogu elections. In my opinion, it is also important that health needs to be considered for prevention in other areas as well. We must actually think about spatial planning and planning at all, as well as taking health into account in transport arrangements. I think it is important to take seriously, for example, the signal that we see how modest the movement among young people is. I am not talking about sports right now, but about very, very little movement. Each young person should move for at least 60 minutes a day. We know that in a good case, maybe a quarter of it will be filled. So definitely improving mobility opportunities, changing attitudes to life, I think, is definitely one thing that reduces the burden and costs of the health insurance fund and allows for the release of money to those who really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U275	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U276	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question concerns point 4.1.3 of the draft decision, 'We are preparing for the work of the future'. We know that the corona crisis brought many people to the home offices of rural homes, but if it is necessary to climb the roof of the basement or stone garden each time for mobile communications to function, and the internet is so slow that it does not allow the meeting to take place, then the strategy is little of a fine word. The entrepreneurs wrote in Postimees on 27 October that the fixed connection is a new normality, but about 80% of Estonian buildings have no modern connection. It was stressed that the development of digital infrastructure is stalled, we need a comprehensive national plan, administrators and inspectors. Do you agree that there is work in progress in this area? For what year can we promise that every village in Estonia will have a modern and fast connection? I hope this year's before 2035.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U277	Thank you very much for the question. If we look at the action plan, there is a high-speed internet connection inside, and the principle is that it is all over Estonia. But first of all, I will briefly answer your question as to whether I agree with the statement that there is a lot of work to be done. Of course, I agree with that statement a lot. We've developed a fast internet every year, how to say it. We'll bet on it if there's extra resources, extra euros. I remember that this year, too, an additional EUR 10 million was allocated to the construction of a high-speed internet network. At the same time, I know that, in the previous period, one year or two ago, in fact, not all these millions could be exploited, invested. Whether there are torts of procurement, whether there are any other procedural problems, but there are quite a lot of unused investment funds that should now be used in 2020 and 2021. So, in any case, I completely agree with what you are saying: that the arrival of high-speed internet everywhere is very important in view of the work of the future. I think that every crisis always offers very good lessons. And this is now one lesson that really homework or teleworking is increasingly more and more in Estonian society. People get used to it, employers get used to it. But what you have made clear as criticism is absolutely right. As you say, it has come down to the stone garden or to the basement roof and to expect the gust of wind to be right, so that the fast or at least ordinary internet still works and, I don't know, the video conference will not break. I'm not talking about any major online operations. So, yes, in any case, what you were talking about is very important to me. This is actually in the section of our strategy where we are talking about our living environment: we want to improve access to the fast internet. And if you ask what year it will take, we will invest, I think, in the order of 10 to 20 million euros each year. But, of course, the total investment volume is much higher. However, we cannot say that the work of the future is only such, well, I don't know, the work of the Internet. There will certainly be different forms of work in the future. I mean, one of the options could be a lot of so-called job bites that have been said. But there's definitely no more variations. In addition to the strategy, we also have the same objective in the Action Plan as regards high-speed internet and better opportunities for homework or teleworking. So these principles are set out in both the strategy and the action plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U278	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U279	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! My question concerns the challenges facing us in the education system. For a sustainable and successful society, it is important that people are educated and have as many of them as possible. So far, however, many people in Estonia are under-educated and unfortunately their motivation to participate in programmes aimed at them is very low. And my question: how can these people be motivated and directed towards education or speciality?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U280	Thank you for this very important question. If we look at these strategic goals, the first objective is that we say that we want people living in Estonia to be smart, active and healthy. So, certainly, people's learning opportunities are very important to us. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'll point out what's in this strategy. If you look at the strategy, on page 8, we note that Estonia is at the absolute top of Europe in terms of ensuring equality in basic education. Of course, we are thinking above all of the results of the PISA tests, the PISA tests. When we talk about 15-year-olds in Estonia, whether it is a functional reading, whether it is mathematics or natural sciences, just physics, biology, chemistry, they are at the top of a number of criteria in the ranking of European countries. At the same time, there is a high proportion of people without professional education in Estonia: 27% of adults aged 25 to 64 have no special or vocational education. The proportion of young people aged 18 to 24 who do not continue their studies at a low level or lower level of education is 9.8%. And the proportion of men, which is 12.7%, is twice that of women. So here we see the first major problem or negative factor, and the aim is definitely to reduce the proportion of men. Now, the figures are also shown by ethnic groups. 10.2% of Estonians and 9% of people of other nationalities will not continue their studies. A learning and inclusive education system based on shared values would certainly help to provide learning ideas that support labour market needs. And people need to adapt to new needs, learn more throughout their lives, and be prepared for a change of specialty. If you look at this strategy paper again, we will also see, now I am talking about the necessary changes that need to be made in the interests of the future, that one step is certainly the integration of formal and non-formal education. This will certainly help to motivate the learning process. Looking to the future, it is certainly important to improve the quality of higher education, but also to improve its funding. It is precisely to improve the quality of higher education and international competitiveness that there is a need to expand workplace-based learning, entrepreneurial magic, as well as doctoral studies, and to develop the organisation of traineeships. We also consider it important to support the preservation of Estonian-language curricula in higher education. I stress it again: the preservation of Estonian-language curricula. And the development of professional and scientific languages must be supported. We also consider it important to review the financing model for higher education, including the modernisation of the system of student loans, student grants and scholarships. In doing so, access to higher education must not deteriorate. There is a desire to improve the responsiveness of learning to the needs of society, including the labour market, and it is important to strengthen the link between higher education and research and development. Now, as far as education is concerned, I think it could also be said that there is a clear need to increase social cohesion and equal opportunities in education, as well as in the labour market. The decline in the working age population will lead to changes in the balance between the local population and the foreign workforce, and it is to create equal opportunities in education and the labour market that we update the services of adaptation and integration, the education organisation and language training of learners with a different native language from the Estonian language, and we will develop solutions to keep the local population active here on the Estonian labour market. It is also important to pay much more attention to promoting return to Estonia and promoting equal opportunities. We are developing inclusive education and we are pointing out that we are integrating education, social and health culture and support services in the labour market. We also consider it important to develop measures to support the minimisation of the pay gap. We are dealing with reducing gender segregation in education and the labour market. And the strategy also pays attention to supporting inactive and uneducated people to study and return to the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U281	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U282	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! It also turned out nicely that the biggest determinant we are going to is the demographic situation and the ageing population. It affects the workforce, it affects the sustainability of health and pension systems. And the strategy, which I very much like, aims to reach 110% of productivity compared to the European Union average. That is the only possible solution when we are talking about an ageing population. But this assumes, in the opposite direction, that we will have significantly higher than today, not a few percentage points higher, but significantly higher investment in innovation, both in the private and public sectors. At the same conference "Industry Business Plan 2020," for example, entrepreneurs said that investments in Estonia are not welcome. There is no clear target where we want to move, there is no certainty for businesses to invest. Tell us how you intend to attract investments into this country of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U283	Thank you. First of all, what you have pointed out is that it is important to make every effort to ensure that our population does not decline, I fully agree. I think it's such a fundamental principle. Now that this strategy has been taken apart, I would like to report to you precisely those principles that I think are important for the economy. The aim is to increase the innovation and R &amp; D capacity of Estonian entrepreneurship. We attach great importance to this because it contributes to productivity, it contributes to international competitiveness. And now the question is, what are we going to do about it? To this end, we will develop new innovation services, as well as new innovation grants for all stages of the development of businesses and technologies. For example, I will mention monitoring the market for new technologies and advising on intellectual property, new business models and the inclusion of creative competences. It is also important that we restructure the support for applied research and increase the R &amp; D investment of national companies. We help science born in Estonian research institutions to reach a faster application. Now, that's very important, don't you tell me that we're all helping to get into business once science has done a good thing. This is indeed our great desire and we want to encourage cooperation between research institutions and private operators. You can't miss that. In my opinion, the important objective is to increase the capacity of the major areas of the Estonian economy, which is precisely this focus. And what else we consider important in this strategy or, if I may say so, in this project is to ensure cooperation in research and development between research institutions and companies throughout Estonia, but also in areas that are important to the economies of the regions, such as technologies supporting environmental protection, saving and valuing local resources, ICT. I think it is important that we develop sectoral R &amp; D programmes, rethink smart specialisation options and provide support for participation in the European Union's strategic value chains and promote sustainable bio-economy. Now, let's keep looking. In my opinion, the aim is to become a successful promoter of research and development in selected areas, but also a promoter of achievements, and why not a world tester to be attractive to foreign investors, as you pointed out, as such a destination country. Why can't Estonia really be such a place in many areas, such as digital, green, green technologies, environmental technologies, or, let's say, a platform where to test new technologies? As they say in English: a test bed with self-driving cars etc. I apologise to the Riigikogu, of course, for using the English expression here, but it may be very much. So, yes, Estonia could be a country where technology-intensive services-goods come from. The export of such services, I think, is very important. The new area for R &amp; D development is such smart and sustainable energy solutions in addition to today's solutions. What else? I would say, Mr Sutt, to you that we could still think more boldly about the possibilities of using hydrogen technology. In my opinion, Estonia could really be a pioneer in the transport sector and in the production of hydrogen at one point. So what can I tell you? These should be important directions. But at the same time, I understand perfectly well that this whole corona virus is putting certain restrictions on the plans. A few weeks ago, despite the COVID-19, I had the opportunity to go to Paris in France and meet with my good fellow French President Macron. There we established strategic partnerships between Estonia and France. But I didn't just meet the president. In addition, in cooperation with EAS, we had a very interesting meeting with companies operating in France. I remember that when we discussed Estonia with entrepreneurs in the spring, especially those who export out of Estonia, how to help alleviate the very serious health crisis, one company said that it would like to meet with the head of a French company in Paris. And you see, that's what happened now. I really don't know if there's gonna be a contractual relationship or not, but in any case, the possibility of cooperation was created. I would like to come to one more point, that is the problem of the population you have indicated. We come back to the first part of the question. What do you do in the economy when there are no people?? People are needed, good people are needed and Estonia's population must grow. In my opinion, the problem is not only that we are really projected to have a decrease in the population, although we have to say that I think we are now in the countercycle, and I would say, in a positive sense, in the countercycle. We can see that Estonia's population has increased in recent years. As I said, 2019: + 5600, 2018: almost +3500. It shows a lot of returnees. People believe in this living environment, but I think they believe in this economic environment, that you can make your dreams come true here. But what do I want to point out when talking about the population: what are these important "Estonia 2035" targets? We cannot get over or around healthy years of life and, unfortunately, we do not have a very positive trend in this regard. Unfortunately, there is no positive trend in the growth of healthy life years either for men or for women. I think that this is actually a very big challenge, which connects with the previous question, that what are we going to do with such a huge health fund? After all, 900 million euros are expected. What, though, are these wise solutions to help alleviate this problem? I'm just telling you, I'm not going to read this place. You all have this very important strategic document on the table: 'Estonia 2035', which has never been before. But if you open page 7, in the third paragraph you will see a lot of proposals that we should change in order to reduce the cost of your health insurance fund. The aim is precisely what I said to you, Mr Sutt: that the women and men of Estonia would live longer in health, so that the healthy life would be extended.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U284	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U285	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to congratulate you. It is excellent that this strategy finally does not sing hosanna to the low-life economy, but in point 4.1.3 it is very clear that platform workers and freelancers are workers, not independent entrepreneurs, and that they also need rights and protection equally with all other workers. But unfortunately, the sad fact that less than 20% of workers are covered by collective bargaining in Estonia is not mentioned in the analysis of the business environment. And it is the collective agreements that are particularly sectoral, but also, of course, company-specific, are the ones that actually guarantee workers their rights and social protection. How do you see the future? How can we achieve that all our employees are covered by collective agreements? How should the state strengthen the collective bargaining position of workers more broadly?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U286	Thank you very much for this question. First of all, I think that the fact that you are all involved in collective agreements, focussing, is very much linked to the fact that we must contribute to the strengthening of our labour market partners, to the strengthening of trade unions, to the support of trade unions, but also to the dialogue that is between trade unions and employers. I was told by the union leader... I restored this triangle of trialogue years ago. We meet on a regular basis every year several times, both employers and trade unions are present, and we have addressed the same issues that you have now raised. Yeah, I think there's potential. We know that there is potential, and I think that this potential should actually be used. And I think it is precisely what is important to promote such social dialogue. We ask what this dialogue will do. But let us be honest, as far as I know, for 15 to 16 years this social dialogue did not really work at all. There was no such social dialogue! I think that, in this case, the Government of the Republic or the Prime Minister is an important angle in this triangle for this social dialogue to work. So I will certainly promise you that we will undertake collective agreements at the next trialogues to protect our employees, to give our workers security. But I think that this is not only necessary for workers, it also gives employers confidence. I think it's an important difference. And actually, if you look at this strategy, the basic concept of this strategy is that we actually focus on every person in Estonia. I thank you for raising this issue and I promise to put it on the agenda of trialogues in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U287	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U288	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I must say that there is a very strong strategy paper. It's broad-based, and there's a lot of good and necessary directions. And as a good colleague, Andres Sutt, said, there are two weighty parts. One of them is the democracy package, which I very much like. I would have brought this democratic package a little forward according to my priorities, but let it be. He exists. And I am very pleased that it is said here that a wider spread of participatory democracy needs to be achieved, that one mechanism for empowering the Estonian people is more extensive organisation of popular initiatives and surveys, both on the initiative of the state and on the initiative of the citizens. Very nice, very good! But the question is, if we compare the popular initiative with the popular survey, we're going to get some kind of response here in the spring. But am I right if I also perceive a very clear trend that the popular initiative is intended to be restored as a fundamental right, as is the case with the public survey?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U289	Thank you! If we take apart the goals of the "Estonia 2035" strategy, it is immediately said what I have already quoted, and let me do it again: 'In order to increase Estonian nationality, language, culture and vitality and to promote a democratic and secure state, we must take five equal goals into account in making choices on a daily basis'. Now that we are talking about the public initiative that you asked about, I have this personal position. I have to say that I belong to this political non-profit organisation, which has wished to introduce the principle of a popular initiative into the Constitution five or six times. I remember once saying that we have made this proposal more often than the Olympics. We know that this is not an option right now. Can you read it in this strategy paper? It has not been specifically written in it, but this strategy document is, the honourable Riigikogu, on your desk. As far as I know, there are two readings, you can propose amendments, and ultimately this is your decision. Now that we look at the participatory democracy addressed in this strategy paper, we will find it in this strategy under the section of government. Here it is absolutely there: we are talking about participatory democracy and we consider these principles to be important. It should be, if I am not mistaken, in the strategy paper on page 12 at the beginning. We are also talking about participatory democracy in the action plan, which is an important part of this strategy. This should be on page 11 of the Action Plan, which talks about governance and about the kind of change we want. Estonia must be an ambitious and democratic state where public services are of high quality, predictable and accessible in every region, guaranteeing people's fundamental rights, and society is research-intensive. This action plan provides for tools that, in my opinion, promote participatory democracy, such as different co-creational environments. So, yes, this principle exists in both the strategy and the action plan. But specifically, yes, the popular initiative has not been rewritten, but of course it is a question of the Riigikogu and political debate. I am not a member of the Riigikogu, but for me personally, and I know that this is also a very sympathetic idea for my party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U290	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U291	Thank you. A lot of round words, Mr. Ratas, but very weak relation to reality. From this point of view, it's some sort of first strategy. See: Sustainable Estonia 21 strategy is actually its analogue. And when I think of what I myself consider to be a major strategic, if I may use this disgusting word as a challenge, these issues are climate warming, population ageing, a common Estonian-language school, security, fiscal sustainability, etc. Let's take these first five. The warming of the climate, your minister, the Minister of the Environment, is the first thing to deny its human nature. Getting old is your first thing that breaks down the pension system. The Estonian-language school was here today, speaking about the development of the Estonian language and other things that have nothing to do with the subject. Security your ministers are picking a fight with their allies and breaking ally cooperation. And finally, the budget, for years, is a deep structural minus. Tell me where the strategy is here and when you will start acting strategically!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U292	Thank you, Mr Ligi, for a traditional question that sees only bad and negative first. If I remember correctly, as far as the sustainable development strategy is concerned, I think it is a very important document. In any case, it is an important document! But I don't know that there would have been an action plan like the one in "Estonia 2035." I'd say it was kind of a fundamental product. Speaking of "Estonia 2035," there is a separate action plan. This relates to the government's decision-making processes, as I said earlier, in the preparation of the state budget strategy and state budget, development plans and programmes. There's a very clear connection here. "Sustainable Estonia 21" is not bad at all, but "Sustainable Estonia 21" did not fulfil these roles. Let us be honest, these strategic roles were not fulfilled. When it comes to whether "Sustainable Estonia 21" is in any way contrary to "Estonia 2035," it is not. They don't conflict. I think that the same document that you, Mr Ligi, are holding in your hands today - 'Estonia 2035' - actually takes account of the SDGs and considers these SDGs to be very important. Mr Ligi, we know, and I am sure you know very well, that these 17 global sustainable development goals are really important. They call for the end of poverty, for the fight against climate change, for the fight against inequality and for the improvement of welfare for all people, but so that we do not harm the natural environment. This, in my opinion, also provides a direction for implementing the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We take the fact that monitoring "Estonia 2035" will also help to monitor the implementation of the SDGs. I'm talking now, right, about the United Nations objectives. They have been adopted, if I am not mistaken, at the end of September 2015, at the United Nations Summit on 25 September. The title of the declaration is "Let's change the world. Sustainable Development Agenda 2030" For example, poverty in whatever form is being eradicated everywhere, good health and well-being for people of all ages, gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls, reducing inequalities within and between countries, ensuring sustainable consumption and production, which is one of the objectives of protecting, for example, oceans, seas and marine life, and the sustainable use of marine resources, in order to achieve sustainable development at all. The aim is also to strengthen the methods of implementing the Action Plan and to revive the global partnership for sustainable development. These are very fundamental and serious points in this UN Sustainable Development Strategy. I don't know, you say "2035" like you don't need. So I'd ask if we should live every day, every day, good Jürgen Ligi, one day at a time or. I still think we need a long-term view, such a strategic view, so that we can see beyond this evening, Mr. Ligi. So I really thank you, Jürgen Ligi, very much for this serious question. I think it's important. I would now like to give you a much longer answer, Mr Near, on all the five points that you have pointed out. Well, first of all, Mr Jürgen Ligi, you said that the climate issue is of no importance. I have brought out to you the UN principles of sustainable development and said that this is also part of the monitoring that we are doing with regard to the 'Estonia 2035' strategy. After all, we state very clearly in our fundamental principle that by 2050 Estonia will be a competitive climate-neutral country with a knowledge-based society and economy, with a high-quality and species-rich living environment and readiness and ability to move and power, respected Jürgen Ligi! To reduce the adverse effects caused by climate change and make the best use of positive opportunities. Concerted development of cultural, social, environmental and economic areas is a prerequisite for achieving sustainable development objectives. Coherent development! Knowledge-based decisions are made in Estonia and effective and innovative approaches are preferred. Let's go. I know that the strategy actually sets very, very ambitious targets in the field of climate. We look at the changes in Estonia that need to be made in order to improve our climate and economy. I replied to Mr Sut here, Mr Ligi, just a while ago, introducing important points in the economic and climate areas. But let's look at it further: we will increase the capacity of the areas that are important to the Estonian economy. We are shaping a flexible and secure economic environment that promotes innovative and responsible entrepreneurship, as well as fair competition. What else do I want to say to you, Mr. Ligi, in answer? I think it is important that we also adopt the principles of the circular economy. And, in my opinion, there are also economic changes related to climate issues, Mr Ligi, such as responsible horticulture and climate-neutral energy production. So I'm really glad we can have this debate here with you. We say in the strategy that we are moving to climate-neutral energy production, but we are doing so by guaranteeing energy security. The second issue you raised, Mr Jürgen Ligi, was that you said that we were breaking the Estonian pension system. Well, I'm sure that's not the case. What we have really done: we have said that the second pillar of the pension must be voluntary. People can decide for themselves what they do, whether they join or do not join, step out or not. You know that there were major disputes between the Riigikogu, the President and the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court finally decided. Estonia is a rule of law with separation of powers, and the Supreme Court said that the decision of the Riigikogu is actually legal. It's legal! There hasn't been a bad thing here. You're saying we're breaking the pension system. Let's get the budget for next year, Mr. Ligi! Of course, this is quite a small step in the perspective, but we are seeing an extraordinary pension increase of EUR 20 in the face of a very serious health crisis and the economic crisis. After all, the old age pension wouldn't increase next year by indexing, but now it's up 20 euros, and that's a good thing. And if we take a national pension, for example, it will rise to 30 euros. It's been standing still for years. There is also the child component: for those people who are retired, if I am not mistaken, there will be 3 euros and 55 cents per child. These are good things. I would like to say that, in my opinion, strategicism is, in fact, that many initiatives in this strategy are those that take a long, long time to implement. We don't just see today and tomorrow. As I told you, we look further, we look beyond the horizon. It is not that we are only responsible for what will happen tomorrow or what will happen by the end of this parliamentary period. No, I think it's our duty to look beyond the horizon, to look further. In fact, we need to consider that if we do not take these steps today, it is quite certain that in the future our future generations, our children will actually lose their competitiveness. For example, wind farms, the construction of wind farms in the sea, which are very seriously linked to the assessment of various environmental impacts linked to visual pollution, which is linked to the fact that we are going to redefine our energy portfolio. All these aspects need to be discussed, fish stocks need to be discussed, impact assessments need to be carried out. What I'm trying to say is that these energy connections aren't going to happen overnight. They're big, they're very voluminous, they're very cost-effective. These are very complicated changes. Now the question of Estonian. That was the first question, in my opinion, from your groupmate Yoko Alender, Mr Jürgen Ligi. I responded thoroughly to this by addressing both the strategy and the action plan. You say that security is not reflected at all in this strategy. Well, that's not true! And, as Mr Pulpland said, I am telling you, Mr Lii, that amendments can be tabled. If we're talking about security, we're gonna take the strategy down nicely first. On page 11, we are talking under the heading "Security and Security" that global research has shown a downward trend in the number and extent of international conflicts over recent decades. In the coming decades, the risk of transnational conflicts and shadow wars may increase, in particular due to the clash of the interests of the major powers, the continuing threat of terrorism and political and economic instability. And beyond the usual threats, for example, hybrid threats associated with hostile influence, interference in democratic processes, cyber attacks have increased. The role of international institutions will be weakened by the crackdown on common value systems. Now, what I would like to say about the security that you, Mr Ligi, asked about with regard to the document 'Estonia 2035'. We have stated in the fundamental principles that Estonia's security is guaranteed by membership and contribution in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, NATO and the European Union, as well as close cooperation with allies and other international partners. In our interests, the European Union, as an association of nation states, is influential and united in the world on the basis of a Treaty of value-based, solidarity-based and effective action. Estonian national defence guarantees collective protection and independent defence capabilities, guaranteed by a strong desire for defence. We see that our defence costs are at least 2% of GDP. And here I want to say, the honourable Riigikogu, thank you very much for the various compositions of the Riigikogu, the different governments, that we have held this 2% for a very long time. I think this is a very important principle on which we are based. What else do I want to tell you about security, Mr. Ligi? I am dealing with the strategy paper now, but I am also getting to the action plan. But these are important observations. When we look at it, there are different headlines on security that we are doing: we are improving the international position of the country and we are guaranteeing security and security. Now we could go to an action plan that also sets out the principles of security. As far as I am aware, this should be described in the Action Plan on page 13, where we are talking about security, security and also international measurement, security and security in every situation. We see cooperation from different ministries here. I think it is extremely important that we improve the country's international position and ensure security. Now, Mr Ligi, you also wanted me to answer you about the budget. With regard to the budget, we have made a very serious effort to anticipate improving our position in the country's budgetary strategy so that we move towards a structural and nominal balance by 2022. I fully agree with this that, in the face of this economic crisis, it is very difficult. To make economic forecasts that would prove right, I do not know, in the year after next or in four years, this is, of course, very difficult. Let us even think that the Ministry of Finance made one forecast: it was that next year growth would be 4.5%. After three weeks, there was a new forecast, which was also made by the very respected institution, Eesti Pank. It essentially speaks of zero growth, namely 0.8% growth. What do I really want to say? The achievement of the strategic goals of "Estonia 2035" must be supported by the state's financial policy decisions. Without them, we will not do this thing here, the honourable Riigikogu. But the Estonian state budget is sustainable and oriented towards macroeconomic consolidation. This certainly means that, in the medium term, it is vital to achieve a balance. Thank you very much. Sorry that the answer took a little longer, but I thought those were very important and substantive questions that Riigikogu member Jürgen Ligi asked about various thematic blocks, and I wanted to answer all of them during the process of this "Estonia 2035" strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U293	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U294	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Despite the fact that I am a member of the opposition, do not think that the questions I ask are because I am critical. However, criticism, if constructive, is constructive. The issue of long-term maintenance load has indeed been addressed in this document. I didn't find any services or guarantees to support the work of the caretakers here, but maybe they're hidden in somewhere. We're all glad third children are born more. Each child counts and is precious to his or her family and also important to the country. These beautiful and important words and thoughts that have been incorporated into this development strategy and action plan are extremely important. But I ask: how do the works and the words come together when, until then, the law of psychiatric assistance is still in place, which is very important for young people to be able to work in the future? If they receive assistance at the right time, they will be able to contribute to the country later.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U295	Thank you very much, Mrs. Helmen Hunter! I never thought you'd be here in any way, I don't know, unreasonably critical, as you said. You're constructively critical. And constructiveness always leads on. That's what I think. I think that we should look at our action plan, I really am jumping from one document to another, and there are a lot of these areas in "Estonia 2035." First of all, we must come to this chapter on skills and the labour market in the action plan. First of all, what kind of change do we want? We want such changes that the people of Estonia have knowledge, skills and attitudes that enable self-realization and personal development. Estonia's education and labour market policy is also flexible, forward-looking and internationally competitive. It is also important to me that we see that Estonia has a sufficiently qualified workforce that supports the progress of Estonia's state and economy. Of course, all indicators and criteria such as labour force participation rates, the demographic labour market index, the gender pay gap are also below; this is certainly the proportion of adults aged 30 to 34 who receive special or vocational education. If we look at this more precisely, we are seeing precisely those measures in the action plan on maintenance loads in these columns. I would also like to point out that, if you look at page 4, here too, we actually see that the aim is to reduce the maintenance burden and support it for a more gender-based sharing. So we see different proved to be this very difficult challenge and the subject, I would say, of mitigation. I would also like to say that, as far as I know, the plan is to revise the financing model for long-term care. This is also the point on page 6 of this Action Plan. These areas should be well described here. I am thinking of the part entitled 'We improve the well-being and social activity of people with special needs and improve the long-term care system'. Now for the psychiatric assistance proposal that I have been discussing with you here at Riigikogu Question Time. I've said I consider this to be the right proposal. I think that children must have the right to apply directly to a psychiatrist in certain cases without the consent of the parent. And this must be done here in the Riigikogu in order for this consensus, the common part, to be achieved. If you ask for my personal position, yes, I think that today we are certainly in a situation where children should actually be able to address a psychiatrist directly in certain cases. And I would also like to have your attention on the subject of mental health on page 6 of the Action Plan, which states that we support mental health and reduce mental and physical violence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U296	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U297	Good chairman of the sitting! Prime Minister! I very much agree with what you said in your presentation: that every member of society must feel valued in Estonia. It's very important. There are a lot of right ideas and correct words and the right aspects of this strategy paper as well. The fact that Estonian society must also be caring, cooperative and open to the public must also be very well formulated. Here's my question. Do you think that during the last year, Estonian society has moved towards being caring and cooperative and open? Do you understand these people, perhaps especially from the younger generation, who, looking at what is happening in Estonia today, say on the contrary that we have moved towards a conflict-rich society instead of a caring and cooperative society, and rather than an open society towards a more closed and backward-looking state?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U298	Thank you. I have said my principle in this work many times and I am also telling you today that I am relying on Jüri Ratas as Prime Minister to all people of Estonia, whether or not they support him. I think it must be based on this position every second, every minute, every hour and every day. If you now ask whether Estonian society is more caring, more coherent, it has been one of my fundamental principles in all these four years, so that Estonian society is more caring, more coherent, more noticeable. If I think about the document that is in front of you today, honourable Riigikogu, I would say so. I think the general principle of the document is that we should act with the idea that every day, when we wake up, we live in a slightly stronger, slightly better, a little more secure, a little more caring, more coherent, more prosperous country than it was yesterday. "Estonia 2035" is actually such, I would say, a narrative of progress towards a welfare society, if I may use such a word. Yes, some of our analyses, say, show that in certain areas the cohesion of Estonian society has increased: support for our defence forces, support for NATO, support for the European Union. We see that young people with Russian native language feel more connected to Estonia. This certainly shows positive tendencies. This year has been a difficult year. I think the reason is definitely the same corona virus, but certainly also certain statements. I won't deny it. And I've always expressed my opinion on all these disparaging statements. It is a fact that I cannot look you in the face and say that we have not had serious statements that make no one feel in society, I do not know, discriminated, or someone has been intimidated or discredited. But I'm saying there's been this in a lot of different directions. I understand perfectly well what you mean as a Social Democrat. I could say right here that I also remember some socialist campaigns, but we're not gonna make it anywhere if you point a finger at me or I point a finger at you. Crisis situations are usually those that actually help to unite people and society. I think that this could also be a lesson in this year, where there has been a very serious health crisis and an economic crisis. Estimates of caring or cooperativeness are, I think, always very subjective. In this strategy, when we look at it more closely, we actually see the introduction of these two new metrics. One is the criterion of caring and co-operation, or the criterion of co-operation, that's in here, that's what we're going to measure in society. This is exactly what you asked about, Mr. Kaljulaid. And the other one is contact between social groups. This is also what we will measure according to the Estonian 2035 strategy. It actually shows coherence, awareness. By measuring these indicators, we want a more informed country, we want to steer society in this direction, we want to move in that direction. I know that work is still ongoing specifically on the methodology for these indicators or criteria; it should be completed soon. The age of your turned out to be very, very right. It's a complicated, very complicated problem, but it has to be solved. And today it seems to me here in front of the Riigikogu that it is important that we can say that it is also one of those societies, I do not know, that there are actually five political parties in today's Riigikogu. I think everyone may be in opposition or coalition. I remember that time when you and I were at the Centre Party together, you got out of there. On the first working day here in the Riigikogu, I think you left. But in fact, you remember very well that our party was like this for ten years, that we were told that we would not cooperate with you for different reasons. I don't think it's a good thing either, it doesn't create social cohesion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U299	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U300	Thank you, Prime Minister. Just as a fact, you managed to scare Mr. Jürgen Ligi out of this hall. But now to the development strategy. I listened to what you said, and I have to say that it really sounds like a very beautiful fairy tale. You could say it's such an ideal landscape. Such a development vision could indeed be implemented in the long term. But the tools and the team that will implement this strategy or this vision are also important for this strategy. And now I ask you, what should be the team implementing this strategy, the government: is it like yours, or is it someone who can stay within the agreed budget framework, who does not focus on raising the debt burden and does not deal with substitution issues? And where does the limit run so that, for various reasons, ministers do not constantly leave and have interruptions? Please describe what this team could be like! Thank you. Sorry about the long question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U301	Thank you, Mr. Jaanson. I think, first of all, that, when it comes to this collective or group or team or team, as you said, or the women's party, in the end, it should be the whole society. All in all, it should be the whole of society, that's where it's supposed to start. I think that who is a prime minister in the Estonian state at one, another or third moment may not be so important. Today, Honourable Riigikogu, you have before you the "Estonian 2035" strategy and this is actually a document of the Riigikogu. After all, the Riigikogu is going to change it the way you think it is right. The Action Plan is a government-level document and the Action Plan is very clearly linked to the budgetary process. I say that I believe that the strategy could be implemented by all Estonian people, all Estonian organisations within the limits of their responsibilities and their activities, within the limits of their role. It is clear that our daily choices that we make today will affect our future, they will affect our day tomorrow. Well, I'm sure you know that better than I do. You're a good example of how to view your form, your health, your training, and keep yourself in good shape. I think it is important for many Estonians that we live more years healthy. How, then, do we view our health? Are we smoking or not smoking? Do we drink alcohol or drink alcohol? This will all be reflected in the health costs of our country in the future. Are we moving every day, or are we not moving every day? What's our sleep mode? Do we also take care of our health in the preventive sense of I don't know, go to research, see a doctor once a year? Yes, the action plan will be implemented and held accountable by the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic, which has now gained the trust of the Riigikogu, is the Government of the Republic. The Riigikogu, which currently has the highest power, is responsible for the strategy in this Chamber, the Riigikogu, elected by the Estonian people. Implementation is also actually well written in this strategy. In this strategy paper, we see how it will be implemented. There is, in fact, a separate chapter here: page 29, implementing the strategy, how it works. I'll be honest with you, this is a small part of this implementation, and I'm sorry to take it out of here, but for me, a very nice page 30, second paragraph. In fact, it has never been before that every member of the government comes here before the Riigikogu, in front of this House. So far, some members of the government have gone once a year to present their field. The Prime Minister is going to present the European Union's policies, research and development, with some cyclicity listening to an overview of defence and security issues. But the fact that every year the person who is the Minister of the Environment or the Minister of Culture or the Minister of Education, I think this is a very good innovation to create better contact and cooperation not only with the Commission, but with the entire composition of the Riigikogu. I think it's very important and important. Is that a fairy tale? No, I don't think it's a fairy tale. I think the strategy must have a long-term vision, but it can, of course, be stoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U302	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U303	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I think it is, in principle, very good that the Riigikogu has the opportunity to contribute to and decide on the long-term strategy of the state. I very much welcome the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who have written their chapters very effectively. But I have to say that the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs have written these same texts for years, there is nothing new about it. From here on, I'm going to get to the fact that the government's words and actions are actually in conflict. If we think about long-term care, we will know from 2015 what shortcomings there are and what needs to be done. If we think about the social services, including the welfare financing scheme, during your two governments, this scheme has become largely so that all the costs that can be incurred are transferred to European Union funds. I have asked you many times before what a sustainable solution is. It doesn't look like it from here, and that contradiction makes me ask. My question to you is: why should I and why should the rest of Estonia believe that political choices and decisions are made according to their texts, their objectives? This has not been the case so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U304	Thank you. I think that this is an important issue that you have raised in terms of long-term care and in terms of the people involved every day. Are they through their work, or are they people who need it, or are their family members? They all know very well how difficult it is, both spiritually, physically, and economically. I think that the issue of long-term care is one of the most complex, and that solving such long-term problems cannot be done overnight. These solutions will not come tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, because they are very voluminous and expensive. Let us be honest, the problem of long-term care has been tackled, I think, for the last 8 to 9 years. And when we think about whether there are, I don't know, enough decisions, any new measures, new financing models, I agree to look first in the mirror and say that we have not found them very much. So what's the solution? Today, too, on the issues that have been put to me in this debate, it has been clear how important it is to achieve a balance. I myself said that moving towards a structural balance in the budget is important. If we want to solve the problem of long-term care, it is not hundreds of thousands, it is not millions of euros, it is tens of millions. It is necessary to strike a balance between the burden of long-term care borne by a person who is under care, carried by his family, and those close to him who are borne by the taxpayer. This balance is actually important. I think it's unbalanced today, to the detriment of the human being. In any case, I agree that we must allocate additional resources to this sector, but these are very large and difficult decisions. As I told you, we have been trying to find these solutions for 8 to 9 years. I'm not going to tell you that we've been trying to raise wages and raise pensions and income tax-free minimums to keep people in a little bit more pocketbooks. But there's always a rise in the cost of living. In conclusion, I think that this is such a painful and acute and important question that we could have a complete kind of, I don't know, maybe it's an idealist-spoken political consensus on how we solve it. This requires very clear changes in our tax system, in the principles of our budget, but I think it needs to be resolved. I totally agree with you on that. If the opposition and the coalition can see this solution in the same way and try to move forward on the principle that we now reject the question of who calls the solution first, then it would be extremely important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U305	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U306	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! Thank you for presenting this ambitious and inclusive document. It's beautiful, too. The document, however, describes very little about the future role of the Riigikogu. I quote that each member of the government will make a presentation in the Riigikogu, where he will give an overview of his responsibilities. So the document comes to the Riigikogu as a whole, becomes a document of the Riigikogu, and once a year we begin to get an overview of what is happening in the areas of responsibility of each ministry. What role can the Riigikogu play in setting Estonia's strategic goals and guiding the future? Do you foresee that we will substantially change this document between the first reading and the second reading, or do you foresee that these ministerial reviews will be an input to something we can do about this document? What is the role of the Riigikogu in shaping this document and setting Estonia's strategic goals?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U307	Thank you. Who am I to tell you this? I follow the principle of separation of powers, and the Riigikogu knows best what your role is. I am absolutely sure that the 101 people who are here today, including you, will find the best option, the best function to formulate the country's strategic choices. You assign them to the executive, you assign them to us. I think your contribution is the whole document. I'm very sorry, but I think the Riigikogu can make updates here every week, as you wish. It's just been how to say, our little help to the Riigikogu. You can now, if you want, turn this document upside down. But I'm saying there's been an opinion collection. [[Riina Sikkut says something in the hall.]] Almost 15,000 people, yeah, you're right, or a little below that. So that's your job. Who am I to tell you this? But I think it is important and I have asked that the culture of discussion between the government and the Riigikogu be improved and that the members of the government really come here before you. But yes, the Riigikogu itself has the opportunity to clarify its role, to decorate it. This "Estonia 2035" strategy is presented here. After all, in the future, you can draw it up at your own discretion, according to your own beliefs, if that's what you want. And I also think that, for every government, the coalition can contribute to the strategy, as well as to the action plan. I do not know whether long-term targets should be changed every year. I think these are the good goals that are said here. Of course, they can be changed. Personally, I say that these are good long-term goals, five strategic goals: a smart, active and healthy person; an open, caring and cooperative society; a strong, innovative and responsible economy; a secure and high-quality living environment for all; and innovative, reliable and human-centred government. We were able to propose it, but in cooperation with the Estonian people, with the support of the opinion collection. I know that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has said that between two readings, as far as I know, it does not violate your domestic and operational procedures; I do not have it in my head to make proposals from other committees as well. I think this has been a very sensible approach by the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the whole Committee on Monetary Affairs. I just want to say one more thing, you must be very familiar with it, but I think it would be important to go through this once. When it was conducted in the spring of 2019 during the preparation of the opinion collection strategy, it was such a value-based survey and 14000 people from all over Estonia participated in it on-line, in public libraries, online. And there was a question about what people would say, which Estonia they wanted to live in in 2035. Very often it was said that it was a happy, good Estonia. And then they asked exactly what this happy and good Estonia was, and 47% of respondents said it would be safe, 45% to be natural, 32% to be free, open, human-centred Estonia. And it's all in this strategy project or draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U308	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U309	Thank you. To comment on the amendment of the law on psychiatric assistance, so much so that if three of your political parties in the Committee on Social Affairs were to support sending this draft to the large hall, we could vote in a democratic way on this draft. Next week will be exactly one year after we process this bill. From this strategy, I read that in the field of mental health, we ensure the availability of the necessary services and develop an early-notice system. I understand that you have the agenda for this strategy at hand. I went to investigate, we don't have that action plan on hand. Please look at this action plan, how much more child psychiatrists, school psychologists and clinical psychologists we need to achieve this goal and how much it will cost our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U310	Thank you. I do not think that such specific figures are set out in the action plan. Alongside the Action Plan, there are development plans in different areas, different programmes at ministerial level. I can certainly explain that to you. If you are asking about these specific metrics, we should look with you at the Public Health Development Plan, where, as far as I know, these figures are set out in more detail. The Action Plan, if you look at page 6, states that we support mental health and reduce mental and physical violence. That's what I'm saying. But if you ask how much one or the other or the third is needed no, this action plan does not contain this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U311	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U312	Thank you. I will come back to this social protection issue that was previously heard here and to the issue of long-term care. I agree that, in fact, three areas of social protection, education and health care are perhaps the most important areas that we should be committed to developing over the next few decades. In the case of long-term care, could there not be one solution for real implementation and implementation of this strategy as care insurance? I know there's been talk about it in the government, but I don't know exactly where it is. Secondly, is it possible to offer a good level of social protection, as well as education and health care, as is the case with our northern neighbours, at the current tax burden in Estonia, which is quite low compared to the Nordic countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U313	Thank you. We see that the Estonian teacher now offers the best education in the world. Estonian school offers the best education in the world, the best education in Europe. This is shown by the same PISA tests, the results of which we know. I think that the level of medicine in Estonia is very high. I think that the level of Estonian doctors, Estonian medical institutions, is world-class. I'm sure of it. When it comes to people's durability, health and social protection, yes, the action plan sets out what kind of change we want. Here we say that the well-being of all people has been valued in Estonia over the whole life cycle, and the population's secondary growth is encouraged. We say that the relevant metrics are, for example, the same total birth rate and income quintile ratio. We say that the people of Estonia are physically and mentally healthy for longer and make choices that are healthy, risk-reducing and preserve the living and natural environment. The measure is the proportion of people with excessive body weight. The Estonian occupational health and social protection system is integrated, human-centred and sustainable. The measure is the proportion of persons aged 16 years and over with a high maintenance load of 20 and more hours per week. And you asked about the maintenance load. I don't think we can offer such a northern level with the tax burden we have today. The question is whether we want to offer it or not. If we wish, this political debate will most likely have to be opened. And I think it's a pre-Parliament debate. And it's an honest debate about whether there are any parties that say, "Yes, we're willing to raise taxes and that money goes there." Or, in fact, we don't see these parties before the elections. So I think it's clear that we can do some kind of relief with what I said here to Mr. Jüri Jaanson. Indeed, it is very important that people's own care in health behaviour is that the life we have lived in health is as long or longer as it is today. Now for the care insurance. Well, it doesn't say that in this document. This requires political consensus, a common political element. I think that this joint section is quite difficult to find between the various parties in the Riigikogu today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U314	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U315	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Smoke-free Estonia also targets there by 2035. My question is this: will we be able to break the attitude of officials during the process of this document? They consistently refuse to recognise 95% safer alternative tobacco products. Would we also be able to write into the strategy that we, through various taxes, are trying to manage people in view of the large number of tobacco deaths and the reduction of tobacco damage? Do you think it's possible to change the attitude of the authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U316	Thank you! I had an idea what you were asking for. I'm certainly not a tobacco specialist, even an e-tobacco specialist, I know very little about it. For 42 years, I have been able to prevent it from putting burning tobacco between my lips on any face. I guess we don't live, well, I don't know, in a black and white world like this for whom idealistic, not for whom. But to take steps that actually reduce the risk to human health, to take steps that reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease in humans or other diseases, I think it makes sense. I think it's very reasonable! We can't say it's zero. Maybe it's, I don't know, x percent of 100, but in any case it's better than that tobacco or smoke we're comparing at this point with some other, I don't know, input or technology or alternative. So I think that taking steps for the better is very sensible, and that is what I support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U317	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U318	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! It is, of course, a pleasure to hear that the Riigikogu can do what it wants with a document from the Riigikogu. My question was not motivated by a change in five major goals. I very much agree with the synthesis that has been put together following the rounds of engagement. Looking at indicators' benchmarks, they are very ambitious, such as the desire to reduce the gender pay gap from 17% to 5%. The same coalition agreement under which the government operates does not mention at all the reduction of the gender pay gap. Now, if in a year's time, the minister will report and it turns out that there are no activities to achieve the strategic goal, well, let's hear it, let's ask a few critical questions, what will happen? There's nothing to influence instruments. In the same way, it is a very ambitious target to increase R &amp; D expenditure in the private sector to 2%. But what are the actions to achieve this? The number of injuries, poisonings and deaths from external causes per 100000, which is 58, should decrease to a maximum of 32 deaths. The Rescue Board is doing a very good job. These deaths have been greatly reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U319	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U320	If the government does not achieve these ambitious targets, what can the Riigikogu do to help, give advice?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U321	I think so, Honourable Sikkut, I think that we must make great leaps in society if we are to achieve something. We're gonna have to do the big jumps we're gonna make here. Then there would be no need for this "Estonia 2035" strategy. We have to make big jumps. And I agree: the baseline gender pay gap was 17.1% according to 2019 data. Target 5%, it's more than a triple jump that needs to be made. I think such ambition... A lot has been said, I remember, years ago we talked about fine-tuning all the time, but in fact, in society, we need ambition in a good way or we need an apology for saying so! just a wake-up call. I said that in my opinion, 'Estonia 2035' should be such a narrative for moving towards a welfare society. Honourable Riigikogu, given your wish, your potential, I don't think you want to take any small steps. Big steps are needed. Yes, of course I agree that these ambitions are very, very big. I think these are ambitious goals. In fact, they must make us all move, with my weight and many others in motion. They must make you move, make officials move, make politicians move, people in the Riigikogu and in the government. If we want to do something, I think it has to be ambitious. We still need to see new content, new quality. If we do not want to see it, I think that this document, this strategy is not needed. This can't be a ticking time, that the Republic of Estonia is 100, and now it's all good. It's not okay! We have to keep going! All the time we need to build our democracy, our rule of law, but also develop our living environment more secure, secure. I thank you for agreeing to these benchmarks. I was really afraid you were gonna turn them over. Now I have confidence that a good job has been done. You know, you've worked at the State Chancellery. Many of your former colleagues have received a very large input. Very big input! They haven't done a bad job. On the contrary, they've done a good job. I would like to thank the strategy bureau from the bottom of my heart. But we're still talking about a 15-year period. We're not talking here about a year, four years, six years. 15 years! It's a long way to go. But we have to take into account that some indicators may deteriorate over this period. We have to take this into account. There's nothing to do. And still, if you stumble, there are two ways to either fall and stay behind or get up and move on. I think we need to get up and move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U322	Yeah. And the idea must move, especially in the Riigikogu. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U323	Prime Minister! The answer to my last question you took to the sports trails. I can't stay here for that long, but you might want to think about whether the spectators are part of a basketball team or team. But what I want to ask is that you mentioned here in one of your answers very correctly and nicely, I hope to quote correctly that it is vital to achieve a budgetary balance. And that is my question. We have a very beautiful document ahead of us here, but we have very serious problems with the budgetary balance. What are you going to focus more on in the coming years, whether to achieve a budgetary balance or rather to this document? How do we balance these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U324	Thank you, Mr. Jaanson. I think that if we are to respect the principle of sustainable development, we really need to find a balance. We need to strike a balance between the economic environment, the social environment and the natural environment. There's no way we can elevate any environment or block, because then the balance will be lost. It is so obvious in nature that there must be balance if we want biodiversity to be preserved so that there is development, but nature has been preserved. I think the idea of balance is very important, very important. You are now asking whether this strategy or budget balance is more important. I do not know if these are at stake, if I were to put it to the fore that we have to overcome the health crisis and we have to overcome the economic crisis, they are very clearly linked. Am I happy that Estonia's budget is not structurally balanced? No, I'm not happy. But today I see no other way than to face this health crisis if we want to face the economic downturn. Unfortunately or, fortunately, all countries are doing so today. I think I'd rather be lucky today. If we were to go out of balance now, what would that mean? Well, I think it's a few billion cuts in size. I think that would be pretty rough. Especially since we have fewer tax receipts, either way, some things get a little tighter, unemployment increases... Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U325	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U326	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! However, I will continue with the previous question. I understand this is the strategy we have ahead of us, all right? And your strategy has its own agenda on how to achieve these strategic goals. You are also referring to this action plan. However, would you please specify what activities the following governments will have to undertake until 2035 to ensure that mental health services are available and an early-notice system is in place? What do you have to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U327	Thank you. It is not the case that there is only the "Estonia 2035" strategy and there is also this action plan. There are other strategic documents in Estonia. As far as I know, we have 17 development plans in different areas. Here in the Riigikogu there are the fundamentals of policy in different fields, which is currently 16. As I said, there will also be programmes at ministerial level. I think it is important to develop such uniform principles and measures. When we talk about mental health, it is important to ensure the availability and quality of mental health services throughout a person's life cycle, to improve people's awareness, to develop self-support skills, to promote the protection of the rights of people with mental disorders, to solve mental problems that cause illegal behaviour, for example, in detention facilities, as well as to develop an early-noticed system, which also refers to the person's entire life card. Here it is extremely important, honourable Riigikogu, to cooperate with local governments to act together. The role of the community must be strengthened so that the community can contribute to the community's action. Network-based assistance for victims of violence, prevention of and development of repeated violence, development of these measures, prevention of radicalisation, I think these are very important activities, all of which must be done on an ongoing basis. On the agenda, Lina Kersna, it is written. I told you this was a page... I'm gonna check it out, or I'm gonna say it wrong, and then you're gonna be mad at me. It's supposed to be page 6, if my memory doesn't fool me, part C. That's right, that's right, that's where you'll find it. I think you can definitely come here and help with your experience, your proposals and your contribution. I say this with all my heart, without any irony. As I said in reply, if I am not mistaken, Jüri Jaanson asked who had to implement it, I think that the whole society must implement it, regardless of what our party membership is or whether we are on one side or on the other side of a certain political line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U328	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U329	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! By 2035 will the local governments of Estonia be so strong that we will be able to exempt the owners and housing associations from the burden that they will have to keep the sidewalks and green areas adjacent to their property in good condition free of charge? I dare say that we will find new people in need, but we have forgotten that today the owners and housing companies have this responsibility. I expect that, by then, local authorities will be able to make a partner agreement on an equal footing and organise it in this way. Is this real?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U330	Thank you. Yes, I remember that was the principle that when there were snowy winters, Nõmme was wearing a boy I grew up in Nõmme and went to school halfway to the centre of the road had to clear the small streets. Not to mention, of course, that the sidewalk had to be cleaned. But what you are asking is, of course, a very fundamental and strategic question: will we place this obligation on the property owner, who often has a lawn strip behind the property, then there will be a sidewalk and then the road will begin. What does the owner have to do? Does this lawn strip have to be cut, cared for and mowed? Does this sidewalk have to be cleared of leaves, cleared of snow? Have local authorities become more prosperous by 2035? I think so. I think it's definitely become more wealthy. The way this issue is resolved is, in my opinion, quite different across municipalities. But I think we are still talking primarily about the municipalities in the densely populated area. In fact, in my opinion, more and more of this road is no longer very clean. But I talked to Mr. Jüri Jaanson about taking care of his health, and a lot of people want to do this job. It's a good physical exercise: clearing the snow, clearing the street, mowing the lawn. If people want to do this, they should not be denied it. I think so. But is it an obligation to do so? It's up to the municipality. I think that in 2035 the municipalities will be much richer and will be able to carry out their tasks.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U331	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U332	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! I find the document we are discussing very sympathetic. At the same time, I must agree with those who have expressed the opinion in today's debate that approving a document with such sympathetic principles and visions at a time when there are extreme conservaties in your government is still somewhat paradoxical. But my question comes from the discussion you initiated that you wanted. Am I right to understand that you have a clear proposal to introduce a care insurance tax in the near future? At what rate and when would you like to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U333	Good Indrek Saar! I would have been surprised if you had told me that you were not happy reading this document, or that you would not have expressed satisfaction. What a surprise that would have been! Why? After all, you were there on 8 March 2018 when we launched this "Estonia 2035" strategy. Your party was a strong supporter back then. And I think we did a good thing with that initiation at the time. But you see, good things take time. It is the end of 2020 and we have handed over this document here before the Riigikogu. And now it's your decision what happens to it, how you see it, and what changes you make to it. We have talked quite a lot about this in the debates here, your party companion, Mr Kaljulaid, just asked about whether 2020 has been a year with more coherence and awareness or more hate. Now you bring it out here or, as you say, one party doesn't fit into the government. You actually made that clear, didn't you? Well, I don't know, it doesn't increase coherence. I think you and Raimond disagree on that. One wants coherence, and you say someone has to be in the corner. I don't know, I don't think that's a good thing. We were stuck in the corner with the party I belong to for ten years. I don't think society won much of this. A lot of people said it wasn't good. Now, your last question is whether I am prepared to introduce a care insurance tax and what the rate must be. No, I think that such tax changes can only be made if, in the pre-election period, a clear question has been asked about the electoral mandate, whether it is considered right or not. If you ask whether this will be initiated now, I think there is certainly no consensus. There is certainly no consensus on this, but this does not mean that these issues should not be addressed. It could be a solution. These issues need to be dealt with further, but I think it is more of a question of the next Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U334	Liina Kersna, is this a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U335	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister indicated that on page 6 of the Action Plan, I would get more information. I'm still confused. We have a document like this, and we have a document like that. There is no action plan in either document. And I've seen that neither document has a mental health issue on page 6. It is likely that we and the Prime Minister have different documents. Maybe there's some way we can get to know these other documents. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U336	I only have a draft decision of the Riigikogu here, but what documents does the Prime Minister have? You're going to publicize, maybe, if it's not a state secret?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U337	Thank you. Well, that would be a disaster if I had told you about the state secret for hours. But as far as I know, the same action plan that I have quoted several times is on the website of the State Chancellery. The whole action plan is out there, there you will find it. So if you want to familiarize yourself with it, it is entirely available in public on the website of the State Chancellery. I don't think there's any payment walls that you have to pay to get them. And, as far as I know, it has also been sent to the Riigikogu for information to you, Honourable Vice-Chairman. You don't know exactly? But it should also be sent to you. That is the case: the Riigikogu has a strategy, the government has an agenda. And as I said, on the home page of the State Chancellery, the action plan is up nicely, a public document. You click there and there you see the pages I've been referring to. They can also be taken out of the Steinogram by Liina Kersna. And I can send you, if you want, overly elaborate on all these columns and sections. I'll admit, the eye's going down. I've studied it many times, read it, watched it, asked it, discussed it here there are many, many complicated things, but in the end you can understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U338	Thank you. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U339	Thank you. I'll try again. I still didn't understand whether you had a position on care insurance or not. I understand you are saying that in this Riigikogu, there is, as if, nothing really can be decided that it must first be asked for a mandate. But you are the chairman of the Centre Party, apart from being the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia. That is why you are the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, because you are the chairman of the Centre Party, isn't it? This makes sense to the Estonian political system. But as chairman of the Centre Party, what is your proposal that you want to bring before the people for the next election? What should be the level of care insurance and how much should be raised in order to bring about a change in care insurance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U340	Thank you. This is not the "Estonian Centre Party Strategy 2035," it is the "Estonia 2035" strategy. And I think it's a good strategy. I certainly support it as a representative of the party, and I also call on you to support it. Now, if you want to know the Central Party's positions on maintenance load and care insurance, I don't think this is the right time. I am afraid that the vice-president of the Riigikogu, who has been very experienced in this profession, would certainly intervene and say that I will leave the subject if I start talking here about the programme objectives of the Centre Party for the elections to the Riigikogu in 2023. I'm not opening this debate right now, if you'll excuse me. But I am prepared to debate this matter with you. One thing you can be sure of: the Centre Party comes up with very good principles and interesting solutions, and I suggest that the Socialists support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U341	Thank you, Prime Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U342	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the State's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035' submitted by the Government of the Republic was discussed by the Finance Committee at its meeting on 17 November. Mr Jüri Ratas, Prime Minister, Henry Kattago, Strategy Director of the Strategy Bureau of the State Chancellery, Eili Lepik, Deputy Strategy Director, and Sven Kirsipuu, Deputy Secretary General of Budget Policy at the Ministry of Finance, were invited to participate in the discussion. The strategy establishes a framework that brings together the most important strategic goals and lines of action agreed nationally and taking into account international commitments; it links the long-term strategy with financing, i.e. takes into account the prospects and opportunities of public finances and provides the basis for budgetary decisions, including the planning and use of structural resources; it provides the basis for shaping Estonia's positions in international coordination processes, including at the level of participation in European Union policy planning. The strategy will create the conditions for better organisation of the country's strategic and performance management, including the reduction of the number of strategy papers and the central integration of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into the country's development documents. At its meeting on 17 November, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda, including 25 November; to propose that the first reading be closed; to propose the deadline for amendments to be set at 16 December and to appoint a representative of the lead committee here. In addition, it was decided that all Riigikogu committees would also be asked for an opinion on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on "Accepting the State's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035'.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U343	Thank you, Honorable waitress. No questions for you. Let's open the political group negotiations. Kaja Kallas, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U344	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, In my vision, the strategy should be based on the vision of Estonia, and when it is in place, what leads us towards this vision will be mapped out. The decisions and steps that will bring us closer to the vision we will make; the decisions and steps that will not bring us closer to this vision we will not do. The strategy could answer the questions we are trying to do, how we are trying to do this and how we know that we are moving towards our goal. If the meter says we're not moving towards our goal, what are we going to do to change that direction? The first part of the document before us concerns the problems facing Estonia, and the second part says that someone should do something. My logic says that all sub-strategies, i.e. development plans, in the various fields of activity should coincide with this major strategy, show a particular direction. However, just yesterday, in this very Chamber, we heard the Minister of Rural Affairs presenting the agricultural and fisheries development plan, which has been drawn up until 2030, not until 2035 as this strategy. How do these things fit together, and why this mess? The annex sets out the metrics that should show whether we are moving closer to the targets set out in the strategy. But for many targets, there are no meters or it is simply said that due to the new methodology, the starting and target levels will only be added next year. Why can't you set them up right now? I don't understand. Reading this document is not necessarily over or over the cognitive dissonance that arises. On the one hand, it's all right. Who then would not want Estonia to be a "creative, responsible and open and value society that preserves and promotes the identity of Estonia and ensures a vibrant cultural space that is diverse, accessible and modern" or would not agree that "Estonian language must remain viable" or that "Estonian security is guaranteed by membership and contribution in NATO and the European Union"? All of us sign these fundamental principles, but when we look at the activities of the members of the government, it does not seem that they run in the opposite direction. Let's look at strategic goals. "Estonia is home to intelligent, active and healthy people. " Of course! "The intelligent person appreciates knowledge, preserves himself, others and (life) the environment, and takes a supportive view of all social groups. " Again, absolutely agree! But if you look at the activities of the government coalition, their desire to divide society at all costs through the hostilities of minorities, the question arises again as to whether it does not apply to them [these goals]. Or such a goal: "Estonia's society is caring, cooperative and open. " Beautiful. But the government does not only hate minorities but also the Aliens Act, which, on the contrary, closes society and makes it smaller. "The Estonian economy is strong, innovative and responsible. " I would like to, too, but in reality we see a different trend. Only yesterday, Ahti Asmann wrote that major investments in Estonia could no longer be made. If you look at the gauges, it seems utopian to reach these targets. R &amp; D expenditure in the private sector: the target is to increase them from 0.6% to 2% by 2035. But how is this possible in circumstances where research funding is reduced and nothing is done for it? Here is another measure of the economy: labour productivity as a proportion of the European average. It is currently 78.6%, but the target is to reach 110% of the EU average. How's that? What are we gonna do for this? The introduction to the strategy describes that we are an ageing society. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U345	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U346	The trend is we're an ageing society. The introduction to this strategy also says that the introduction of technologies increases productivity, but it is low in Estonia. We know that the current government has restricted the use of additional labour in both industry and agriculture. But where will productivity growth come from when the use of technology is weak, we have an ageing society and we cannot bring in additional labour? What are the steps we need to take to move in this direction so that productivity growth will be as high by 2035[as desired]? They say don't tell me about your priorities, but show me your budget, and I'll tell you what your priorities are. The strategy must be seen together with the budget. This document itself says that the country's fiscal policy decisions must support the achievement of strategic goals. However, if we compare the strategy with the fiscal policy decisions of the government, then on the one hand, the strategy says that Estonia has a large proportion of people who are not educated and should be improved. On the other hand, the national budget strategy for four years does not foresee any money for teachers to raise their salaries. Who will teach these uneducated people when there are no teachers? I would like to specifically mention the sentence "Estonian state budget is sustainable and oriented towards macroeconomic consolidation." It seems to be coming from some parallel world, because we know that the current government, and unfortunately the previous one, has done nothing to ensure that the budget is sustainable and geared towards macroeconomic consolidation. In conclusion, the document contains many beautiful words and objectives. But if, on the one hand, the government agrees that these are the important goals that must move towards, but, on the other hand, rapid steps are being taken, you could even say that it is going to run in a different direction, then this beautiful document is of no use at all, and the answer is simply an absolute cacophony. The aim is one, the actions are, unfortunately, different. Since the strategy paper has been a lot of work and ideally we can all agree with beautiful targets, I actually propose that we move towards these goals, take these steps and make these decisions, not go directly to the other side with a large gallop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U347	Thank you. Kersti Sarapuu, please, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U348	Mr President, three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U349	5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U350	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Chamber! In today's almost three-hour debate, the Prime Minister gave a very thorough overview of the strategy "Estonia 2035" and, in more detail, he answered all the questions raised in the Chamber. But the future is on our table. The government has submitted a plan for a long-term development strategy to the Riigikogu, which will direct the country over the next 15 years. We know where we're going. We want to live in a country where people are active, society caring, a living environment that takes into account all needs, an innovative economy and a human-centred government of the country. The main objectives of the development strategy concern the health of our people, our readiness for change and our relationship with the living environment. The strategy will guide the development of Estonian society as a whole and major changes in the next few decades. It is closely linked to the state budget and is the basis for the planning of euro money for the next period. "Estonia 2035" sets five equally important strategic goals: smart, active and healthy people living in Estonia; Estonian society is caring, cooperative and open; Estonia has a secure and high-quality living environment that takes into account all needs; Estonia's economy is strong, innovative and responsible; Estonia is an innovative, reliable and human-centred state. The development strategy supports cooperation between the government and Parliament. It integrates the principles of strategic planning and policy-making in all areas and their financing. It provides the basis for planning the European Union's resources and gives direction to the implementation of the global sustainable development goals in Estonia. However, in addition to the long-term roadmap, we also need short-term activities to carry out [this plan]. The main changes and actions to achieve the targets have been put in place and very clear indicators have been set, which we regularly monitor. For example, such indicators include the healthy lives of people, the proportion of overweight people, the rate of participation in lifelong learning, and Estonia's place in the global business freedom ranking. Nearly twenty ambitious metrics are constantly giving us feedback on whether we are on the right track with the changes. We will reach one long-term target as early as next year, when R &amp; D expenditure is set at EUR 286.4 million in the state budget, representing 1% of the forecast GDP. Next, we could find a solution to the problem, which has also been reflected in the development strategy, which has been highlighted and provided by the Minister for Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik. It is common knowledge that the proportion of older people in the population is increasing and that the number of people with disabilities has increased. New solutions need to be found and the long-term care system updated in Estonia, which currently does not take sufficient account of population changes and provides sufficient support to those in need. In the case of long-term care, the problem is that people have a significantly high level of ownership, which has increased in recent years. The care provider or his family member pays 79% of the total cost of the service for the general care provided in the nursing home. The introduction of the care insurance system recommended by Minister Tanel Kiige would be helpful in resolving this problem. Under the proposal, the payment costs would be distributed between the employee and the employer. I propose that we move forward on this as soon as possible. There is, of course, a lot of work, but let us all contribute together so that we can play a part in implementing this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U351	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U352	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! Colleagues! In the case of "Estonia 2035" there is no overcoming or reversal of this extraordinarily broad involvement, which has been made to screen out these strategic goals, i.e. 14000 people who were asked about the future of Estonia, seminars with sectoral organisations or public comment groups. All in all, during the production of "Estonia 2035," strategic goals and necessary cross-cutting changes have been filtered out of the changes taking place in the world and the major trends, the concerns of life in Estonia and the ideas gathered in the course of inclusion, which means that this division of ministries is not the norm for us. This is the first positive thing. The second is the linguistic visual distinction compared to other development plans, for example yesterday the agricultural and fisheries development plan was discussed here, with a hundred-page text. [Estonia 2035] is much more synthesized, more polished, more linguistically simpler and visually handsome. Thirdly, it is also important to mention the ambition of reducing the number of strategy papers and increasing their consistency, as well as setting cross-cutting targets for Estonia. In addition, my own positive surprise was how well the strategy has been put together with the Constitution. If we look at the documents of the past, for example, the 'Estonia 2020', we will see that they start out as if they are empty and set the goal of productivity or employment. But here the nation, language and culture, the rule of law and democracy are well combined with what are global trends, what are the concerns of Estonia, and what is this social agreement, which direction we could take. But, of course, there are places to worry. At the meeting on 12 October, when the Prime Minister made a political statement and handed the document over to the Riigikogu, I said something in my speech that the coalition agreement is the cartoon of "Estonia 2035." As Kaja Kallas pointed out in his speech, what is written is very inclusively obtained, well synthesized, beautiful and could be a social agreement, but such a umbrella strategy will only work if everyone actually believes in it and makes decisions based on it. Let me give you some examples. Indeed, while in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Minister of Culture did not see in any way that what was happening in his field would limit what was written in the strategy 'Estonia 2035' or not. Yesterday, we discussed the strategy for agriculture and fisheries, which contains a hundred pages of sectorally strong text, but cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment is only seen in fisheries management in a situation where half of the nitrogen load that reaches our inland waters and a third of the phosphorus load comes from agriculture. [This shows that] the sectoral development plan has been written only narrowly for its area of activity, without seeing the links that are essential to achieving the objectives of "Estonia 2035." I have also mentioned the gender pay gap as a question. Indeed, reducing it from 17% to 5% in a situation where we have a mix of educational choices and a segmented labour market requires very systematic and informed action. There is no word in the coalition agreement on this, and I very much doubt that this government will come up with any initiative that could reduce the gender pay gap. Why are we setting targets that we really do not take seriously? I am saddened to say that, despite the very ambitious targets, there is one indicator for which some deterioration is foreseen. It's the coefficient of the income quintile ratio. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U353	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U354	The coefficient of the income quintile ratio is just as some technical indicator simply increases and decreases. This multiplier actually shows income inequality. It reflects whether all people are equally able to make choices to cope with their daily lives. If we allow such a basic indicator to deteriorate and income inequality to grow, it will also be a blow to how coherent our society is and how we will see other developments that should take place within the targets set in the "Estonia 2035" strategy. Trust in national institutions, including the government, is also an indicator, and this trust should be built daily by the government to meet the target set. But it's nowhere to be seen either. Furthermore, it is disturbing for me that we do not see the long-term impact of such everyday or shorter-term decisions. We discussed the issue of sick days last week within the framework of the agenda, Question Time and the amendments to the state budget, and the funding of sick days was rejected everywhere. Yes, from 1 January to four months, this amendment will be temporary. But we are stalling, debating and delaying in the hope that we may be able to get away with spending between 15 and 30 million euros, and risking people going to work sick, the health crisis being more serious and the economic hole being deeper. This is reflected in coping difficulties, early retirement, disability and stress. And then we're talking about a strategy that sets a goal for people who can cope, look to the future, trust the country and be happy. Small steps must be taken every day to achieve these goals. I really think that if the country's long-term development strategy is not going to affect real decisions, it is not necessary. We could go ahead with the current system. If we really want such an integrated approach to areas, to set common directions, then we need an umbrella document, we need something that actually works. And all areas of activity must be driven by these great goals. I asked about the role of the Riigikogu, how the Riigikogu can contribute to changing targets, updating the strategy document and also monitoring if it turns out that these ambitious targets will not be met. This is something that we need to discuss among ourselves, which we need to agree on, and I hope that we will be able to monitor the substance in order to move forward with this strategy paper. So, power! Let's make this strategy work for real! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U355	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U356	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The "Estonia 2035" strategy is undoubtedly a broad-based document. Yeah, he's not a gold key or a silver bullet that solves all the problems at once. But if we believe in it and work towards it, it is undoubtedly a guide, and that is very important in itself. In boosting the vitality of Estonian nation, language and culture and promoting a democratic and secure state, all of us must actually take into account the five equal goals set out in this strategy. These are: a smart, active and healthy person; an open, caring and cooperative society; a strong, innovative and responsible economy; a well-designed, secure and high-quality living environment; and finally, innovative, reliable and human-centred government. It is extremely important that all of these five strategic targets, cross-cutting axes, are equally important. Let me try to illustrate this with a few examples. There was a rapid internet connection from this debate, which is extremely important. It affects a person, it affects a whole society. The fast internet is an undoubtedly very important support for our economy. By doing so, we will be able to influence our environment, because we will be able to take measures that will burden our nature less. But government is also clearly more effective, and possibly more open, more accessible to all our people. Or, for example, look at education. Indeed, Estonia has a very good school education today; we are the absolute top in the world in terms of PISA tests. There's reason to be happy about that, but of course we can't rest on it. As regards education, the strategy states: "a learning and inclusive education system based on shared values." I'd think about it a little bit wider. We have heard here that we need to maintain and move on to higher education in Estonian. But it is also very important for the Isamaa Group that we also pay more attention to education in Estonian in general education schools and that the transition [to Estonian general education] takes place in such a way that we are ready to switch systematically. If we do not do so, of course we will not achieve these five goals. Education is a cross-cutting issue for all five of these goals, and that is crucial. Or, for example, look at security, security policy. We cannot talk about a secure society, a functioning economy, etc., unless we have a security policy based on allied relations with NATO, the European Union, other very important partners. This theme, too, goes through all five strategic goals. So this document is broad-based and certainly very important. "Estonia 2035" is Estonian-language and Estonian-minded, I would dare say. It supports our security, culture, economy and environment and takes the Estonian people and Estonia's life forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U357	Thank you. Mart Helme, please, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U358	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone has studied mathematics, who well, who poorly, and everyone knows the most important principle of proving mathematics theorems: it is possible to prove the theorem correctly, with the right conclusions when the basic data are correct. If the source data are correct! If the basic data are not correct, it will not be possible to obtain the same result as Pythagoras, for example, did in his time. We must inevitably look at this project as a vision, not at day-to-day political accusations about extremists and extremely right-wing issues, as has been the sound of this debate in this Chamber. Perhaps we should think of ourselves back to 2005, 15 years ago. And now we're thinking 15 years ahead. 15 years ago, there was no bronze night. No one had any idea that there would be an economic crisis, mass emigration from Estonia would take place and marginalisation would intensify. No one had any idea that the Russian-Georgian war was going to break out in 2008, that the Crimea would be annexed to 2014 and that war would start in Eastern Ukraine and that 2015 would start mass immigration from the Middle East and Africa to Europe. In 2005, no one had any idea of these very, very much changing circumstances. Today, we have absolutely no idea what could happen in 2023, 2025, 2030 or 2035. We have no idea. Nobody in this hall and no one in Stenbock's house has a crystal ball, unfortunately there isn't. And even if it is, it only shows a beautiful shimmering light. It is therefore completely inappropriate to criticise this development plan put together by the government, or whatever name we give it, from the point of view that it is not supported by day politics. By the way, day-to-day policy is very supportive. This government has already raised the wages of rescuers, policemen, teachers and cultural workers once. This government has not frozen the salaries of teachers for four years, as is always being cut in this hall. It's not frozen! Yeah, the salary hasn't been raised this year, but it's planned to raise the salary if there's any chance. There's no freezing. Please stop lying, disinformation and daily political propaganda! It's just not true. It's not true, and may you be ashamed, if you look in the mirror at night, for lying like that. It's not freezing! It's just not there right now, but that doesn't mean it's not going to be there. Yes, you treat it as freezing, but we don't. We treat this as an increase in wages when we have the opportunity to do so. Let's go. This government has done more to ensure national security than any other government in a very long time. For the first time, money has now been allocated to create anti-coastal capabilities in the Republic of Estonia. There wasn't one so far. There is a plan to develop medium-range anti-aircraft capabilities. There was no such plan before. Can I have an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U359	Please, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U360	This government has exponentially improved the working conditions of the rescuers, the police, the border guards. Roundly EUR 100 million get to the construction of cordons, commandos, police stations and public buildings. The P.D.'s gonna get a new house. This government has done more to ensure Estonia's future than has been done in the last 10 to 15 years. It's fair to admit it, not to talk about splitting up, and I don't know what else. The only ones who split up, the only ones who split up, are those who talk about splitting, not those who practically every day try to take Estonia's life forward in a way that has been missed over long and long years. Here I really call for this vision to be supported. Of course, we do not foresee what is in 15 years' time, but the government must at least set some dotted lines as to how it is planned to proceed. These dots need to be moved forward and, if necessary, detached, perhaps stopped and perhaps carried out tactical retreats from time to time. Life is dynamic. What is most hindering this movement is hostile propaganda and a toxic atmosphere, which the current opposition in Estonia has caused by this journalistic slander, prying, blaming, lying, distorting the truth. Cut it out, and we'll get through those vision scores to the results that we have in the vision, much faster, much more united and much better. Because, you see, our political system is such that someone is in power and someone is in opposition. But being in opposition does not mean that society is being broken. Being in opposition means working hard with those in power. I think that this is the most important point of this vision, that society should not be broken up for power, but worked together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U361	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, is this a procedural question? Yes, please, a microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U362	A colleague started with mathematics. He said that to prove the theorem, you have to take the right source data. My understanding is that the theorem is proven on the basis of logical principles, and this applies to all basic data. In other words, no matter how long the triangle is covered and the hypotenuse is 2 millimeters or 2 kilometers, the theorem is valid. We can use the Pythagorean theorem to find a solution. My question, this procedural question, is this: if the source data of the speaker is incorrect at the beginning of the speech, is the rest of the speech not to be taken seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U363	Thank you. Your question was not procedural, it was very substantive. It's a verbogram. Thank you. So, there is no further negotiation request. Does the Prime Minister have a call? You have a chance to speak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U364	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to say thank you very much for today's debate, for the thoughts that have been expressed in these negotiations. I think that the fact that we are taking in day politics here and that we really do not want to look at a longer vision is disastrous. That's a lie. I don't think you can rest on laurels, and we have to move on from here. The "Estonia 2035" strategy is supported by a large number of other strategic documents that need to be seen as a whole. I think that in 2020, the moment will be really good to make such a long-term vision. True, predicting what will happen in three, five, or fifteen years will be extremely difficult in today's highly volatile world. But why is this moment good? Because the current government has, in fact, for the first time regained independence in Estonia, said that the [funding] for research and development will be 1% of GDP. And I think it's very signicant. I wholeheartedly wish the strength of all the political groups, the Riigikogu and the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I want to say thank you to the people of Estonia who have contributed to this [this strategy] by their thoughts and actions. I would also like to say thank you to the members of the government who have discussed this in a very basic and lengthy manner. But I would also like to say thank you to the two strategic bureaus who have been, to a very large extent, the authors of this document, Henry and Heili, who have put a very large soul and content here. Much strength for the Riigikogu in further processing and discussing this important strategy for all the years that this strategy covers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U365	Thank you. The negotiations have been concluded, and now I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur. Was it gone? Well, that's when you watch TV and you don't see everything. In short, in a long day, the proposal by the commission of the commission of the commission will confuse things, it will be the first reading of the bill 262 to be completed and set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 16 December at 5.15 p.m. Thank you, Prime Minister, for these very long and thorough answers. And I thank all the questioners! This item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U366	We will go to the next point, which is the first reading of the Bill of Accession to the Meteorological Convention, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Taavi Aasa, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U367	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The proposal is to adopt the Act of Accession to the Metre Convention, by which Estonia decides to become a full member of the Metre Convention instead of the current Associated Membership. So far, 62 countries have joined the meter convention, including the majority of EU Member States. Estonia has been an associated member since 2005. We have been represented by the Estonian Metrology Centre and AS Metrosert. In 2005, Estonia chose the status of associated member because of the financial conditions, as this was more favourable. But to date, we contribute almost as much each year as we contribute as a full member, while we do not have access to the services provided under the Convention. [By becoming a full member], the fact that we have access to comparative measurements and calibration services for state and reference columns becomes an opportunity to participate in research and development projects, we can send our metrology experts for training and experience, we can vote in the adoption of decisions and thereby influence the development of metrology, we can present candidates for the Steering Committee on day-to-day operation of the Convention and globally, we can direct the digitisation of metrology, such as making measurement results machine-readable in a way that suits us, and we can influence other countries to adopt e-solutions that work in the field of metrology in Estonia. In short, upon joining the meter convention, AS Metrosert will have access to services through which the Estonian measurement chain will become shorter and better accurate. The draft is intended to enter into force as a general rule. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U368	Good waitress, there are some questions for you. The first question is Marko Šorin.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U369	Thank you, good Chairman! Good minister! Today, this bill has been discussed in couch corners and talked about meters and miles. We often use the term "last mile" in this hall. After adopting this bill as a law, would it be fair to switch to the term "last mile" in our own language? Would you support this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U370	This is a philosophical question. Such sayings will remain regardless of the system we use. I don't think we're going to change the title of the theater show, for example, "A hundred silent tangu salts." I think there's still some things left, just like they are right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U371	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U372	Thank you. Since becoming an Associated Member in 2005, we have so far been an Associated Member and are now joining. Has Estonia currently known to have used any of the services of the managing office of the meter convention? Do you have an overview of that? What do we need it for?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U373	Thank you. Yeah, we've still been using the services. However, we do not have access to those standards that are accessible to full members, and we must use the following standards from these real standards. So in this sense, we could definitely have better access to [the reference points], and as I said, we could also influence processes as a [full member].
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U374	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Jüri Jaanson, member of the Economic Commission, to speak here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U375	Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about what the Commission thought of this draft in its discussions. The Economic Committee of the Riigikogu discussed accession to the meter convention on 16 November. All members of the Commission took part in the debate. The Minister and his advisor Moonika Parksepp were also present, as was Triinu Sillamaa, adviser to the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications for product safety and consumer protection. The Minister for Economic Affairs introduced the bill and said what he said here. He said that the Estonian state had been an associate member since 2005 and that this status was an associated member's status, not a full member's status, was then chosen for financial reasons, as it was just more favourable. But the situation now is that Estonia contributes practically as a full member, because our participation fee is 90% of the full member's fee. At the same time, we do not have full membership rights, full membership opportunities. It is therefore appropriate to accede to the Metre Convention as a full member. Members of the Commission were interested in whether the government had discussed the accession of alternative systems before accession to the Convention. Triinu Sillamaa, adviser to the Internal Market Department for product safety and consumer protection, replied that, when joined in 2005, it was an associated membership. Legally, then, it was not the meter convention, but the highest body, the main conference. At the time, the purpose of the merger was that the standards of the Estonian state, such as mass, meter, temperature and electrical sizes, would be internationally recognised. There was also interest in whether the park of Estonian standards will remain valid after accession and nothing will change. The answer was that, of course, the national standards will not disappear anywhere and that everything will be better for them, because all the standards have a traceability chain and full members can calibrate their standards directly in the original reference levels in the repository at the office. The calibration process is currently being carried out through the standards of another full member. Interest was also expressed that if Estonia first paid 10% of the participating country's contribution and today reached the highest possible level of the associated member, i.e. almost 90% of the participating country's contribution is paid each year, would the annual payment not increase much more if it became a full member. The answer was that, indeed, [the budget] grows by around 1% each year, but the tax increases by about EUR 5700 per year to become a full member. The annual fee shall be increased by this amount regardless of whether the full member is acquired at the beginning of the year or at the end of the year. The Commission also examined whether it would be reasonable to become a full member at the beginning of next year. In response, it was found that indeed, once the Riigikogu has passed the law and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has sent our application for accession to one of the structural units of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we would indeed become a member at the beginning of the year. I also mention that membership usually leads to a merger fee, but Estonia does not have to pay it, as the membership fee is charged for the five previous years of association. So we become a full member without paying the membership fee. The Commission made the following proposals: to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, to appoint Jüri Jaanson as rapporteur and to propose that the first reading be closed. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U376	Thank you, dear waitress. Looks like you don't have any questions. Thank you! The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 278. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 9 December at 5.15 p.m. The first reading of this bill is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U377	Let's go to the last item on the agenda today. To this end, the Government of the Republic has initiated the first reading of the draft Act 284 amending the Law on Safety at Sea and related amendments to other laws. Mr Taavi Aasa, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U378	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The aim of this draft is to increase legal clarity and comprehension in the area of maritime safety and to ensure compliance of maritime legislation with the European Union and international law of the sea. The draft complements the Maritime Safety Act with a number of terms used in the law but not yet furnished. In the Act, the terms "portable floating device', "train ship', "anchor area' and "mandatory pilotage area' are added and the terms "small ship', "high-speed passenger ship' and "historical ship' are specified. A significant change is the withdrawal of authorisation or its replacement by the submission of an economic activity notification for a number of activities. The Maritime Administration carried out an analysis of the regulation of licences in the years 2016 to 2017, which revealed that the existence of a number of existing licences is not indispensable and that the current authorisation process is often too bureaucratic for this applicant. After the entry into force of the draft law, the licence is no longer required for nine activities, the requirement for two activities is replaced by a notification of economic activity and the requirement for nine activities is maintained. No new licences will be added. The regulation of security requirements for ships engaged on domestic voyages is deleted from the Act. In this respect, too, the Maritime Administration has carried out risk analyses, which have revealed the practice of other countries, in particular Finland and Latvia, that it is not appropriate to apply safety requirements to ships engaged on domestic voyages. In cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the requirements of the quality system are specified for health care providers who carry out medical examinations of seafarers and issue medical certificates. The draft also specifies the procedures for resolving disputes relating to health surveillance. The draft also clarifies the regulations relating to a number of registers, in particular those relating to the seafarers' register. On the proposal of the Ministry of the Environment, the draft contains the provisions necessary for the national implementation of the following marine environment conventions: firstly, the International Convention on the Control and Handling of Ballast Waters and their sediments, 2004; secondly, the International Convention on the Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Hong Kong Ships; thirdly, the 2007 International Convention on the Removal of Shipwrecks by Nairobi. The Riigikogu has adopted the Acts of Accession to these Conventions in 2018-2020, but some of the amendments necessary for the implementation of the Conventions are still missing. The draft also clarifies the provisions on the qualification of pilots. The requirement to have the Port Security Chief and the Port Facility Security Chief accredited is deleted from the Act. The law replaces the requirement for a regular security inspection of port facilities every year, which will be necessary once every five years. The draft relates to the draft law amending the Government of the Republic and other laws, the so-called draft of the merger of agencies, which was adopted today in the Riigikogu at third reading. In this context, appropriate corrections are also required in this draft. I would ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U379	Thank you. You have questions too. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U380	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Here's the question. When we talk all the time: "Down the flag of Estonia!" and we contribute mainly to the shore sector, then, in the case of maritime safety training that meets international standards, would it be possible to zero VAT, as is the case in Latvia and Lithuania? I mean that our training companies already known in the field of maritime and offshore energy or, let's say, the Marine Academy or Reval Maritime School would be competitive in this region to provide these trainings. Does that make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U381	Thank you. I think every member of the Riigikogu has a complexion. I'm sure you'll have to consider it. We have made a number of concessions this year for seafarers flying the flag of Estonia or coming under the flag of Estonia. And I think that all proposals aimed at ships coming under the Estonian flag or for the Estonian maritime sector to develop in other ways are certainly worth considering. Whether they can be implemented is a question of its own, but all of them are certainly worth considering.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U382	Thank you. And more questions... Still is. There's another question on Tarmo Kruus Hill, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U383	Thank you! I have realised that size is not really important, but that each country is still autonomous. The question here was whether the first working language of the ship should be Estonian for a ship flying the flag of Estonia. And for some reason, given that shipping is an international field, as well as the fact that the crews of ships flying the Estonian flag may not consist mainly of Estonians, the requirement of Estonian language as a first working language is not justified. Would France, for example, have a similar opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U384	Sorry, I lost the end of the question. [[Tarmo Kruusimäe explains the floor.]] There is no comment on the French laws in this regard, but there is already a law in force in Estonia that does not have to be Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U385	Thank you, dear waitress. Minister, there are no further questions for you. I would like to ask Kalev Kallo, member of the Economic Commission, to act as co-rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U386	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws for the first reading of 284 on Monday 16 November. In addition to members of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, Minister Moonika Parksepp, Adviser to the Aviation and Maritime Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Liisa Surva, and Head of Maritime Service of the same department, Katrin Andre. As an initiative, as here in Saalisk, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, gave an overview of the amendments to the Maritime Safety Act. The Commission did not have a very long and in-depth debate, but the members of the Commission had some questions. There was an interest in whether a person who operates in different fields, such as drivers, hunters, voluntary rescuers, and who is also a recreational boat driver, should take a separate medical certificate for each activity. We received a response from Liisa Survalt, adviser to the Aeronautics and Maritime Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, that a certain number of aspects are foreseen for seafarers, which must be checked and recorded on the medical certificate, and therefore a separate certificate is required. The driver's medical certificate doesn't fit. Katrin Andre, director of the Maritime Service, added that for recreational boat drivers, health requirements must meet the requirements of category B driver, but the quality system outlined in the draft law is intended for professional seafarers. There was an interest in guaranteeing that the activities not subject to authorisation would have been carried out of the necessary quality. Katrin Andre replied that the Maritime Administration carried out an analysis prior to the drafting of the amendment, examining which activities were justified by the authorisation requirement and looking at practices in other countries. For example, some activities are an object of national supervision. In the past, the production of technical documentation for ships was an authorised activity, but according to the law it is an activity which the Maritime Administration is already carrying out ex post verification, whether or not the undertaking which submits these documents is authorised. Interest was expressed as to whether business organisations had been involved in this issue and what their feedback had been. Katrin Andre replied that when the Maritime Administration carried out its analysis, all persons with licences were involved and that the opinion of representative organisations had been consulted, i.e. representatives of the sector. Those were the basic things that they were interested in. The Commission made its decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 25 November. The decision was made by consensus, all members of the Commission were: Annely Akkermann, Riho Breivel, Jüri Jaanson, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Korb, Kalvi Tõud, Kristen Michal, Kai Rimmel and Sven Sester. Secondly, to appoint Kalev Kallo as rapporteur, also by consensus, all members of the Commission were in favour. And thirdly, to propose that the first reading be stopped. This decision was also made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-25_U387	Thank you. Mr President, you do not seem to have any questions. Would you like to negotiate? There isn't one either. In this case, the lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 284. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 9 December at 5.15 p.m. I thank everyone! The sitting is adjourned.
