ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-29_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 6th working week Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Heljo Pikhof, please! Do you have any drafts to hand over? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-29_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of handing over, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group and Raimond Kaljulaid, a draft amendment to the Social Welfare Act aimed at ensuring a nursing home for every person in need, regardless of the financial means available to him and his family. Our solution foresees that a nursing home will be available for retirement for elderly people in need of it. According to the draft, the price difference will be borne by the State and the municipality. However, it is up to the government to develop an exact financing model. As a reminder, the Social Democrats have consistently stood for the provision of care that would allow the elderly to cope as long as possible in their home and, if necessary, to live in a nursing home for a pension. If we look at the bill, in 2019 the average old-age pension was 480 euros and on average 746 euros had to be paid for the nursing home, while more expensive places paid more than 1300 euros. That's why our bill is in shape today, so we'll turn it in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-29_U3	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-29_U4	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture establishes a draft according to which a member of the Riigikogu Anti Poolamets will be proposed as a member of the National Broadcasting Council in place of Urmas Reitelmann who resigned from the National Broadcasting Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-29_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're going to do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-29_U6	There are 80 members of the Riigikogu, no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-29_U7	Let's go to today's item. This is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Names Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. We can open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. On behalf of the Group of the Eerik-Niles Kross Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-29_U8	Good meeting manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on this bill in this Chamber was quite colorful. Many of us took part. It seems to me that such discussions would need more. In some ways, we could talk about the identity of the Estonian state. Perhaps something became clearer for some, but some became more unclear. It is noteworthy that there is currently another draft law on the name of the place in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, which was submitted by two members of the Fatherland and some members of the Reform Party. The main content of this second draft has now, in fact, largely entered this current draft, which is obviously acceptable today, in the course of the debate on this draft. It was quite strange that, in the case of the law now to be voted or adopted immediately, the debate was not really about the content of the draft of the law itself, i.e. the Government of the Republic, but about the amendment that we tabled. The amendment consisted of two parts: the value principle part and the implementation part. It is a pleasure to note that, at least on the issue of the value principle, all political parties reached a common sense and a very important principle was incorporated into the law: there must be no dedicated names in Estonia that are given by persons in such a case as this person has acted against the creation of the Republic of Estonia, the maintenance of constitutional order or the restoration of Estonian independence. This is very welcome and I am very pleased that the performers have achieved some kind of job victory. We had an argument about how to apply this principle. In my opinion, a good example of such a rather incorrect procedure or of a dubious legal procedure was that the dispute was not so much between the coalition groups and the opposition groups as between the opposition groups and the officials sent by the Government of the Republic. We argued with the Government of the Republic, who was mostly supported by the coalition by default. This is, of course, a common practice in Estonia, but perhaps we could try to improve it in the future. So we would expect views from members of the coalition. Now it is that today we are adopting a law that contains a very nice and beautiful value principle, but still does not consider it possible to apply this principle forcefully. That's a shame. We may have to continue the discussions. We have not yet decided whether or not the quite identical draft pending will continue to be pending, perhaps in the meantime time should be taken off. I am quite sure that almost no one in this Chamber has gone into the essence of this draft proposed by the Government of the Republic, which is to clarify the role of the Council for the Names of the Places, but also to dilute. It's unfortunate, actually. If we adopt this law, the Council does not really have the power to make binding recommendations, and it will become such a nice-to-know-know-about body. I'm not sure it's the right principle at all. Aadu Must, one of Estonia's best place names experts, said that... May I have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-29_U9	Yeah. Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-29_U10	... the role of the "place name council" should actually be strengthened. Unfortunately, we're going the other way. But the performance of Aadu Black, of course, offered the hope that perhaps we could continue to work on this matter. So since the amendment we tabled in its main section, as regards the value principle, went into the draft, I would recommend that, with a reservation, the members of the Reform Party, as well as everyone else today, vote in favour of this draft law. But the fight continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-29_U11	There is no further wish for negotiations. I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed a final vote of 186 on the draft. I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the law on the name of the place 186. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-29_U12	There are 76 members of the Riigikogu in favour, there is no one against, there is one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law. The sitting is adjourned. Have a nice day, ladies and gentlemen.
