ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U1	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the 4th working week of session III. First of all, everyone has the opportunity to submit inquiries and drafts. Indrek Island first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent months, and also in recent days, we have once again been intensively hearing different views on where there is a job record in the case of an investment that has been prioritised by one country, or Rail Baltic. Prime Minister Ratas has confirmed through the press that 2026 should as if still be a goal, but on the other hand, both the National Audit Office and many others have highlighted a number of questions. Estonia is in the worst position in many of its activities in the Baltic States and all the information relating to this investment object to society has been incomplete, to put it mildly. In this regard, the members of the Social Democratic Group have eight questions for the Prime Minister, which we are going to refer to here as an inquiry. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U3	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U4	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, In Estonia, a beautiful situation has arisen where security authorities are successfully fighting TV channels that are part of hostile influence, while public money, taxpayers' money, is being channelled into these same channels, thus contributing to the financing of these same channels of influence. I have an inquiry from the members of the Reform Party Group to Mart Helme, the Minister for the Interior, responsible for internal security. We would like to know what the assessment of the Ministry of the Interior is of the situation in which Estonian public sector money is directed to the activities of both Estonia and, more generally, the channels that are hostile to the Western countries. We would also like to know what legislative changes the Ministry of the Interior and the Government are planning to come up with in order to put an end to this perilous situation, because these are channels that are an important part of Kremlin's information campaigns and which, with their lies and informed information attacks, will undoubtedly serve the wider purpose of creating and disseminating a useful narrative for the Kremlin. We would like answers to these questions both in writing and, of course, orally before Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U5	Now, on behalf of the government of the Republic, please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U6	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, a draft law amending the Law on Plant Protection, the Law on organic farming, the Law on state fees and the Law on Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Rights. In the Riigikogu, Arvo Aller, the Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the Automatic Processing of Personal Data. The Government of the Republic is represented by Raivo Aeg, Minister of Justice, when this bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the radiation law and the state fee law. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Rene Kokk, Minister of the Environment, when the bill is being processed. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Aliens Act, the Income Tax Act and the Tax Administration Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior, when dealing with the bill. And fifthly, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act, the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities, the State Tax Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U7	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted five drafts and two inquiries. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. I have a message, too. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up the hydrogen technology support group, and Annely Akkermann will convene it. Now we're conducting a presence check. 92 members of the Riigikogu are present and there is no 9. Let's get to the agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 4th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 91 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U8	Today's first item is the first reading of the draft Act 125 amending the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. I'm gonna ask him to come to the speaker's desk! But before the Minister can present you with the draft, I will briefly remind you of the procedure for the first reading. The rapporteur's or the performer's report shall not exceed 20 minutes; it shall be followed by a presentation by the representative of the commission, 20 minutes; then questions shall be submitted to the rapporteurs, no more than two oral questions, the length of which shall be one minute. After that, the representatives of the political groups will be able to participate in the negotiations. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U9	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Product Compliance Act. The aim of the draft is to enhance the free movement of goods in the European single market for products which do not have, in whole or in part, common EU product standards, such as childcare products or furniture. Businesses and competent authorities have thus far found it difficult to assess whether the principle of mutual recognition can be applied to a given product. Consequently, in order to increase legal certainty in the new Regulation 2019/515 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which governs the application of the principle, it is stated when mutual recognition can be used for placing products on the market. The clarifications contained in the Regulation will help to ensure the principle of mutual recognition more effectively. A product lawfully marketed in one Member State can also be sold in all other Member States as long as it is safe and meets the public interest. Today, the main challenge for businesses is to provide additional evidence when entering the new market in a situation where their product is already placed on the market in some Member States. The evidence requested by the competent authorities shall vary from simple invoice to a declaration by the Member State certifying that the product has been lawfully marketed there. If market access is still unduly restricted and the company wishes to challenge such a decision, it can cost it EUR 10000 to 150000 per product and per national market. Consequently, procedures to facilitate the application of the principle have been introduced into the new Regulation. The new Regulation provides for the possibility for the economic operator to submit a mutual recognition declaration to the competent authority to facilitate proof that the product is lawfully marketed in another Member State. The declaration shall describe the product marketed by the operator and confirm that it is legally marketed in the country of dispatch. Where the competent authority raises additional questions following the declaration by the operator, it shall refer the matter to the competent authority of the Member State of destination and not to the operator. The new regulation also provides for an effective solution to challenge administrative decisions restricting market access in another Member State. In order to find faster solutions and avoid legal costs, an entrepreneur has the possibility to use an extra-judicial problem-solving procedure through the EU network SOLVIT. For the purposes of the draft, the competent authorities are, for example, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, Health Board, Maritime Administration, Agricultural Authority, Environmental Inspectorate, Road Administration, Veterinary and Food Board. The draft is planned to enter into force on 19 April, as the European Union regulation will apply from that date. Thank you and I ask for your support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U10	Any questions for the Minister? It is. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U11	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Are we talking only about products, or are we also talking about services that can be offered to people through products?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U12	Yeah, we're talking about both.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U13	Thank you. Any more questions? Looks like there's no more questions. Thank you! And now I ask Annely Akkermann, member of the Economic Commission for the floor, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U14	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the above-mentioned draft No 125 on Monday 20 January 2020. This session was attended by the speaker, Jüri Jaanson, Kalev Kallo, Kalvi Tõud, Kristen Michal, Siim Pohlak and Kai Rimmel. Commission officials Kaido Rosin, Henrik Mägi, Piia Schults and Elis Themas were also present. Missing Mikhail Korb. The draft was presented by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, and also by the Minister's advisor Moonika Parksepp. Karl Stern, expert at the Department of Product Safety and Consumer Protection, of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, spoke more about the draft. In addition to what the Minister has just presented, some questions were raised in the Commission. Kai Rimmel asked whether the mutual recognition declaration was intended to be issued by one of the competent authorities to the undertaking, or whether the declaration had to be validated and given by all the competent authorities. Karl Stern said one competent authority was enough. The speaker pointed out that the European Union action, or SOLVIT, which provides services to businesses and individuals to address problems related to the placing on the market of a product, has only been used in five cases in 2016. The main criticism of this system is that businesses obviously do not know about the possibility of resolving the problems of placing on the market out of court and in advance. It also appeared that there was no definitive list of product groups. If an Estonian entrepreneur wants to import goods from abroad, but the Estonian competent authority does not receive information from the foreign competent authority and considers that goods imported from abroad are dangerous for some reason, then indeed the Estonian competent authority may prohibit the placing on the market of this product. Kalvi Tõvi also asked that if it is known that the company has a dangerous product, and when entering the Estonian market, the product will continue to be on the sales list, then what will be done in this case. Karl Stern replied that the inspection should be carried out by the relevant supervisory authority. According to Stern, the difference between mutual recognition and classic market surveillance is that market surveillance is carried out in relation to harmonised requirements, but mutual recognition is carried out in relation to the requirements in which the State itself establishes. If the product group were to be subject to national requirements and the product did not comply with them, the principle of mutual recognition would apply and the competent authority should carry out controls on the product. No further questions arose and two decisions were taken by the Commission. Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda today, i.e. on 10 February 2020, and the second was to conclude the first reading. Both proposals will be made to the large hall in a consensual manner. Thank you very much. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U15	Thank you, good waitress. There's a question for you too. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U16	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I have this question: if a product provides a service and this product stops working when it comes to providing a service, whether we can talk here about some sort of compensation for the service, or whether you are discussing only specifically, say, the product. After all, consumer protection is generally more prevalent when people do not receive the necessary service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U17	However, this draft concerns only the conformity of products. This draft does not concern the provision of services with products.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U18	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish to speak? I don't think so. In that case, as has been said, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 125. First reading is finished! I will set the deadline of 25 February at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U19	We now come to the second item on the agenda of today's Riigikogu members Lauri Läänemets, Jaak Juske, Helmen Küti, Riina Sikkut, Katri Raigi, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Raimond Kaljulaid, Indrek Saare and Heljo Pikhof's 15 January 2020 inquiry into cooperation between government and civil society (No 19). I recall the procedure for answering questions. First, a representative of the speakers can speak for up to 5 minutes, then the minister has 15 minutes to reply, and each member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question, the duration of which is 1 minute. After that, we can go to the negotiations if you want. This is Lauri Läänemetsa, waitress for the interviewees.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U20	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. We have presented with the Social Democrats the Minister of Population Riina Solman with an inquiry into cooperation between the government and civil society. We were prompted to do so by what is happening around the Civil Society Foundation. It is known to be a foundation established to support the development of Estonian NGOs, or KÜSK. It has played an important role in the development of Estonian civil society for 12 years and is unique in its impact and results in Europe. This is due, in particular, to the fact that civil society and the government have agreed that decisions will be taken together and that politicians will not alone decide for civil society. In August, in the Civil Society Foundation moving to Viljandi, almost all employees, the President and, in principle, all members of the Council change. In fulfilling the obligations imposed on the Council and in order to ensure continuity, a competition for a new manager was announced at the end of last year, which was abandoned due to pressure from the Ministry. Following this, the Minister decided solely to withdraw or to launch a competition for the post of member of the Council representing NGOs, Alari Rammo, despite opposition from the EKAK Government Committee established as a form of cooperation between the government and NGOs. During the intervening period, there has been a competition for new members of the CFEL Board, but not even the selection board is accepted to send candidates' names, and the Minister is now trying to impose ex post new selection criteria, which exclude, in particular, the involvement of representatives of non-governmental organisations in this Council after the nomination. We are not concerned about moving the foundation capital to Viljandi; regional policy is a sound decision. However, we are concerned by a number of factors that show that the Minister has begun to take control of civil society politically and has broken the dialogue between the civil society and the government, which has so far brought Estonia success. Our questions were as follows. For what reasons did you announce a council member's competition for a member of the board to be filled by Alari Rammo, representative of the NGOs? For what reasons did you decide, for the first time, not to take into account the position of the EKAK Government Committee in cooperation with the public authorities and civil society? How do you ensure that the skills of the current civil society development and support are preserved when transferring the SKY to Viljandi, where the new civil society programme and the new strategy of the SKY are still being completed? And fourthly, which principle do you use to approve the composition of the new Council of the United Kingdom, given that the previously agreed practice of deciding with civil society on their representatives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U21	Thank you! And now I'm going to ask Riina Solman, Minister of Population of the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U22	Hello! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will answer the questions raised concerning the Foundation for Civil Society. First of all, according to Statistics Estonia's forecasts, by 2045 the population in several counties will decrease by a third and the number of young people will even double. This serious problem needs to be addressed immediately, as the declining and ageing population is increasingly restricting the opportunities to provide both public and private services in rural areas, which in turn reduces the attractiveness of rural areas. Therefore, anything that concerns civil society, both competence and a more uniform distribution of resources, will help to support the holistic development of NGOs. The environment around us is changing, and it must also change with the environment as a result of the challenges. To this end, we are drawing up a new civil society programme for the period 2021 to 2030, which provides for how to adapt to challenges and changes. All updates or changes are due to the environment. And I support and consider all the steps aimed at creating public-paid jobs in different regions to be right. One such step is moving to Viljandi, the Foundation of Civil Society. These jobs enable smart jobs to be created, support teleworking, flexible forms of work, and employment opportunities for people who want to live in counties and rural areas. I very much appreciate the work done by the Foundation for Civil Society, the work currently being carried out, but since the UK is facing a number of changes this year at the end of January, the mandate of four representatives of non-governmental organisations in the Council ended, the term of office of the President ends in February, and from August it will start in a new location in Viljandi, it is now the most appropriate time for updating. All these procedures are planned and a normal part of the institution's work, not artificially invented. The EESC is and will continue to be an independent body. The aim of the EESC is to implement concrete actions in the field development plan. THE QUESTION is not a policy-maker. The new civil society programme, which we send in the second half of February for formal coordination and opinion, will focus on both active citizenship in communities and a community approach, but also on the sustainability and family friendliness of Estonia. I've been standing and I'm standing for the functioning of the FAQ. In the summer of 2019, when several members of the CFEL Council discussed the future of the institution without the founding right deputy chancellor Raivo Küüs, and formulated the proposal to terminate its activities as a separate body, I rejected the proposal. My vision as minister is that the CYCLE must move even closer to NGOs than it is today, and we must seek new roles for the CYCK, with increasing funding. Because let's be honest, 1.8 million funds from the UK are not very large, and it has been and has remained as such since 2007. As I have pointed out, it is not the Ministry of the Interior that has been called upon to shape policies, and it involves considerably more people than the work of the CFEL Council, but to implement the policies developed in cooperation with all parties involved. The NGO and other umbrella organisations are active in interest protection and are involved in the policy-making process, but the NGO is a policy-maker, not a designer. Your first question: 'For what reasons did you announce a council member's competition for a member of the board to be filled by Alari Rammo, representative of the NGOs? " Each organization will benefit if, at some point, new people are given the opportunity to come with new and fresh ideas about how and where to develop further. This does not mean that previous leaders would not have done a good job. Alari Rammo has been a long-term member and chairman of the CFEL Board and has made an important contribution to the development of civil society. However, as I emphasised, it is also essential to give fresh ideas to new, fresh representatives of civil society. The Minister of Population exercises founding rights in KÜSK, stands for the good fortune of KÜSK and ensures that KÜSK can do its job. This can be done by the founding right holder through the approval of the Council and the Statute. The Minister may set up a Supervisory Board, determine the fees of the members of the Supervisory Board and, if necessary, make amendments to the Statutes. Since the statute is for the Minister to confirm, we can say that we can set our own expectations with the Ministry of the Interior, not anyone else. It is not a question of theSK Council itself, it is a large part of the larger picture. We are responsible for the development of civil society and the implementation of the development plan. Consequently, I, too, am trying to find the best way to ensure that the necessary objectives set out in the programme are achieved, and on this basis I will appoint new members of the Council. The articles of association of the Court of Auditors provide that changes in the composition of the Council and the removal of the members of the Council are to be decided by the founder's right holder, in consultation with the Government Committee in advance. On 20 December, the Estonian Civil Society Development Council (ECDC) met, to which I presented my proposals: to reduce the membership of the Council from seven to five members on the proposal of the majority of the members of the Council, to increase the fees that were passed on by the members of the Council, and to organise a competition to find four representatives of NGOs in the Council. Therefore, I have not announced a competition for a member of the Council to be filled by the representative of non-governmental organisations, Alari Rammo, but for the re-appointing of all representatives of non-governmental organisations. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that Alari Rammo's mandate was extended by the previous Minister of the Interior before the new government was appointed without a competition. The results of the Council members' competition will be announced after 14 February when the Joint Committee of the EKAK meets, but until new members are found, I will not call anyone back in exceptional circumstances. The Joint Committee shall be consulted as provided for in the statutes of the Joint Committee, but the decision shall be taken by the Minister after consulting the Commission. Under the statute, we have assumed this commitment as a ministry. In 2014, Urmo Kübar and Hille Hinsberg prepared the Handbook on Co-financing, according to which the Commission's consultation includes feedback and requests for proposals on prepared analysis, options and/or drafts. In the consultation, the participant's task is to assess the relevance, applicability and impact of the proposed solutions and their relevance to the needs and expectations of the sector or target group, with views and proposals that may vary radically and therefore not all can be taken into account. The following question: 'For what reasons did you decide, in cooperation with the public authorities and civil society, to disregard the position of the EKAK Government Committee for the first time? " Of course, what was described in this question is not true. I have been told by previous members of the Commission that there have been a sufficient number of different opinions, disputes, disagreements in the ECAC committee. And he is not true either because, in the last committee of the EKAK, I had two proposals, and rightly, I had three proposals, two of which were taken into account, which the members of the committee wanted to carry out. I do not know whether and to what extent my predecessors have faced this, I do not know quite definitively that their vision, as the founder of rights, does not coincide 100% with that of the joint committee. This response is better known by the previous Members of the Commission, I admit. At the same time, I repeat that it is wrong to say that I did not take the positions of the Government Committee into account. Firstly, the Commission supported a Council of seven, although I had proposed to reduce the Council to five. I have adopted this proposal, and the Council will continue to do so as seven members. Secondly, the Commission also supported the proposal to increase the fees for board members to the same level as for other similar foundations. I agreed to it. It is also important that, although the articles of association of the CFEL do not provide for the selection of board members through a competition, I decided to organise a competition to offer all, perhaps more, interested civil society stars. And although many of the members of the joint committee who participated really supported the continuation of Council Member Alari Rammo, I made a prudent decision by offering a competitive opportunity for all to fill the seats of representatives of non-governmental organisations at the same time, also because, on the basis of the renewed civil society programme, it is necessary to renew the focus of the KÜSK in supporting the activities of NGOs. In addition, I repeat, Alari Rammo's mandate was extended before the new government was appointed last spring without a competition. The following question: 'How will you ensure that civil society development and support skills are preserved when the SKY is transferred to Viljandi in a situation where a new civil society programme and the new strategy of the CY will be completed? ' The continuity of the EESC is the result of the civil society development plan 2015 to 2020 and the social programme under way. There is and will continue to be specific roles for the SKY to play. Both the civil society programme and the SKY's own strategy have been updated and many representatives of NGOs have participated and will continue to participate in this work, not just members of the CFEL Council. KÜSK's move to Viljandi is led by today's director Agu Laith, who has been at the birth of KÜSK and has been running the organisation since it began. Therefore, the competences will be preserved because Agu Laith has assured me that he is ready to continue as an expert later and to support the new manager. The second term of office of the founding rights representative, Deputy Chancellor Raivo Küüt, will also continue in the CFEL Council, who will also contribute to the preservation and preservation of the organisation's memory. The work plan of the Civil Society and Adaptation Policy Department of the Ministry of Interior for 2020 includes support and monitoring of the moving process of the CFEL. The removal of state institutions from Tallinn is a multi-annual strategy of the state and in the past, state institutions have moved from Tallinn to Ida-Virumaa, as well as Viljandi, such as the People's Culture Centre. Even then, it was said that the competence was not maintained and that something was broken, that the institution moved away, that the competence was preserved, and that the institution was working very victoriously. The same thing goes on with ASK. The new manager will also have the opportunity to discuss the continuation of work with others and to use flexible forms of work, modern forms of teleworking. As regards the process of electing the Head of the Court mentioned in the inquiry, I am grateful that the current existing Council has announced a competition and has done some preliminary work, a certain pre-selection. At the beginning of September, when I met Maiu Lauring, then Chairman of the Council, and Alari Rammo, Vice-Chairman of the Council, I gave a signal to move forward on this issue. The announcement of the President's competition and the election of the members of the Supervisory Board was for various reasons, and we considered this issue on the proposal of the Vice-Chancellor, and we proposed that the President's competition be postponed in such a way that the new composition of the Supervisory Board could also have a say in this matter. As the powers of the members of the Supervisory Board and the President vary, both issues came to the same time in 2020. And to be positive, it is worth noting that two Council configurations will now be able to participate in the selection of the chairman of the CFEL. The last question: 'Which principle do you follow when you approve the composition of the new Council of the United Kingdom, given that the previously agreed practice of deciding with civil society on their representatives? ' First of all, I assure you that the FAQ is today and will continue as an independent body. The aim of the EESC is to implement concrete actions in the field development plan, not to shape policies. These measures are also the limits of the independence of the SKY. The new civil society programme, which we send in the second half of February for formal coordination and opinion, will focus on active citizenship in communities and a community approach, but also on the sustainability and family friendliness of Estonia. My task is to be responsible for the development of civil society and the implementation of the development plan. Consequently, I will try to find the best ways to ensure that the objectives set out in the programme are achieved. And on this basis, I will also appoint new members of the Council to ensure that the actions of the Civil Society Programme are implemented. The new Council is starting to reflect on the focus and actions of the new programme. The founder of the rights can participate in this process through the Council. I would like to get people from different areas of Estonia, not only from Tallinn, and different NGOs, not only from Tallinn. We have also formulated the principles and 18 candidates have submitted a request for Council members. These people aren't classified. If you are also presenting a vision, competing for a place, you do not expect that your vision and the ideas presented in the competition will begin to migrate to the media, for example, as happened in the previous joint committee. That is why I will release these candidates ♪ 18 good people from all over Estonia, the brilliant performers of civil society • at our next meeting of the EKAK, which will take place on 14 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U23	Thank you. Any questions for the Minister? Yes, it is. Please, Riina Sikkut!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U24	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I would ask such a fundamental question at the outset. On the one hand, I understand, of course, the interest of the government to have regional representation and to have some kind of diversity within the framework of NGOs, but that means that the government largely directs the way in which NGO money is distributed. This amount, which has, in fact, been relatively small and has remained at the same level for many years. On the other side, there is once again this 'freedom' of NGOs, that they themselves decide who represents them. How do they contribute to this decision-making process? Doesn't it seem to you right now that the money from the UK will become the same instrument as there is some amount in the budget that the government decides on and for which the role of the NGOs itself will be smaller? What's the damage if that happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U25	Thank you very much, Ladies and gentlemen. I am sure that this question is justified, but it is also well-founded in retrospect. Perhaps if we look back at the funding of the FAQ, the largest part of the money given to the FAQ has become one of the foundations of civil society, the Union of NGOs. In some ways, therefore, the FAQ has been able to act as a donor for one of the NGOs. Perhaps this is not quite fair in terms of regional balance. For my part, I would like to confirm that, since the UK has a statute and the UK does not make policy, the same way that the Statute provides for, the consultation and funding of NGOs will continue in a slightly more regional way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U26	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U27	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I listened carefully, and then I went and surfed the Internet again, if I could find the answer to why it was going to Viljandi. Why doesn't it go to Võru or Valgamaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U28	Thank you very much. Excellent question, thank you. The Ministry of the Interior had a map of Estonia, and a move to Saaremaa was also considered. It was discussed with representatives of civil society. As a result, three major cities remained on the map, which, in turn, was chosen in favour of Viljandi, where there was already infrastructure, where there was a centre of state support services, the state building, where the move would take place at the lowest possible cost and where there was a very good location. I also reviewed the real estate under the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and, indeed, the best real estate in cooperation with Jaak Aab, the State Support Services Centre seems to be in Viljandi, which is why Viljandi became decisive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U29	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U30	Good President! Good minister! You have set the following selection criterion for the EKAK Government Committee: 'The decision-making bodies are from activities or areas which have not been represented in the CFEL Council so far. ' In this way, you will restrict the candidates for civil society and exclude those who have been represented before. You are not restricting public authorities in this way. Don't you think that's a restriction on NGOs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U31	A pre-cited quote seems to me to be a little bit of an excerpt of a sentence. As a matter of fact, we're certainly not restricting. Perhaps it was meant that, for example, the Council of Churches had not previously been, he had been turned off during one minister's time, and that now he will get a second chance to compete. And so are regional NGOs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U32	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You're always talking about being a minister, and now there's a government, and now I'm deciding, and we have a vision, and so and so. But in fact, KÜSK is a form of cooperation; he is an Estonian civil society; he is a form of cooperation between NGOs and government. This means that it should not be the decision of the minister alone, but the decision of the minister together. Is it also a political agenda for today's government that the government decides and civil society and the civil society must listen and do exactly as you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U34	Good people, thank you for your question. I'd be happy to send you the documents concerning the FAQ and its articles of association. ASK, I repeat, is not a place for policy-making, but a programme, a development plan, gives the SKY a limit of independence. The EESC will implement a development plan, a civil society development plan. It does not depend on what the Minister says or does not say, although I admit that the Minister has his own vision, and he too has the right to say his own vision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U35	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for your review. Clearly, Viljandi is a wonderful place for such a wonderful organization to come, so I very much commend and commend it. Now it is a question of funding: 1.3 million and 12 years unchanged. Are you going to apply for a higher amount for the state budget for 2021 in the negotiations on the state budget strategy? In the Committee on Social Affairs today, when you presented an overview of volunteer organisations, their cooperation and their activities in this regard, it turned out that the number of organisations has increased, the activities have increased, but the amount of money has unfortunately remained the same. Sadly, no better number was found this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U37	Thank you, good questioner! I am equally pleased that Viljandi is an excellent place to establish a civil society competence centre. And indeed, I am going to ask for greater support for civil society in the negotiations on this country's budgetary strategy, because indeed, since 2007 or 2008, this amount has not increased. At the same time, we see that the state budget has already increased from 5.7 billion to over 11 billion. This was a very relevant observation, and I am also looking forward to getting the government's support for greater support for civil society and community action.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U38	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U39	Honourable Chairman! Good minister! The sincerity of the process of electing the members of the CFEL Board also raises doubts that you have set criteria that candidates must meet. First of all, you published these criteria after the competition took place and, second, you wrote such behaviour to non-governmental organisations, who they could choose and who they could not choose. Why have you reduced the role of non-governmental organisations and the independence of the FAQ?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U40	Thank you, very good question, Mr Jaak Juske. I'd be happy to answer. I certainly have not reduced it, but I have created more opportunities. In my view, for a very long time, the same people from the same region, mostly, have been active as members of the council. The time has come to give other civil society players an opportunity, which is why the criteria have been added to this, rather than given in advance. And let us wait Friday, when we meet again at the Joint Committee of the EKAK and we select the members of the Council there. 18 brilliant people from all over Estonia expressed their wish to be part of the Council, so I have no doubt that we will make a good, fair and best choice there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U41	Thank you, Minister. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Yes, thank you, you're free to go! First, I'd like to ask the representative of the speakers here, Lauri Läänemetsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U42	Thank you. In fact, we should not discuss this at all in this Chamber; this should not be a problem at all. If the minister, the government and civil society were to decide things together and think and talk together, we would not have to spend time here today. But the problem is, they talk, but they don't listen. And that is why I think the Riigikogu must pay attention to this. I would like to remind you once again that the Foundation for Civil Society is not just a foundation under the authority of the Ministry, and through which the Minister exercises his vision, he should carry out not only his vision, but the vision of all of us, the vision of the NGOs. This should not be the place where civil society organisations are told in advance who they can elect as their representative or how they can choose their representatives. I have also heard this criticism about the NGO that the Foundation for Civil Society has supported a very large number of NGOs. I mention, just in case, that the NGO is not some random NGO in Tallinn, but is a umbrella organisation for all Estonian NGOs. And I think that the Agu Width sitting right here on the balcony can confirm that all these decisions have been made transparently, all these decisions have been made thoughtfully. Always! To say that we need more regional support for non-governmental organisations, yes, that is right, but for this reason NGOs should not be left aside or suppressed. There is a very simple solution for this: the Minister proposes to increase the budget for the Foundation of Civil Society and there is this money and there is no problem that not all things can be done. Actually, I'd like to read you a letter that describes the situation today. This letter has recently been sent by Mall Hellam, member of the joint committee on the concept of the development of Estonian civil society, to members of the government committee. I quote: 'I turn to you with concern that the joint committee will no longer be consulted as for the last 15 years, but to seek the approval that has been decided. Already after the December meeting, this trend was seen without taking into account the Commission's unanimous position not to recall a representative of non-governmental organisations from the Council. According to the concept and statute of the EESC, representatives of non-governmental organisations in the Council form the majority and, according to current practice, also present their candidates themselves. This is now being taken away from us because the debate will be brought before the whole Commission and the names of the candidates we have proposed will be classified until the last moment. Why? Doubts about the sincerity of the process are also accompanied by the setting of criteria to be met by candidates only after the competition. This will reduce the current role of NGOs and the independence of the CYCLE. In addition, the criteria are incomprehensible and unwarranted, such as the requirement of regional or sectoral balance, that they help the UK find the best Council. It seems as if all the people and organisations associated with the so-called former and also with them or with Tallinn associations are being ruled out. " It was a quote from this letter. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U43	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U44	But I would also like to quote the principles that have actually been agreed between the NGOs and the government and which have been signed by the Riigikogu in 2002. These principles are as follows and, in my view, they are currently being mistaken: civil society organisations and public authorities work together on the basis of the principles of openness and confidence; they seek to represent as broad a circle as possible among themselves; they provide the cooperation partner with the information necessary for effective cooperation; and they create the conditions under which civil society organisations can appoint their representatives to non-political public assemblies, bodies and committees; they recognise the powers of these representatives. Civil society organisations shall be free and independent in their purpose, decisions and activities within the limits of the law. My proposal is that please engage in dialogue with NGOs, give them the opportunity to see the names of the candidates. Please do not impose restrictions on who may be representatives of Estonian NGOs! Let them say it, let them decide for themselves. Let's not write these things down to civil society as politicians, and I think that's all right. You don't have to worry anymore, you don't have to do anything else. If the Minister has any good ideas about how civil society should develop and what else the EESC might have to do, then of course they should be presented to NGOs in my opinion. Proposals should be negotiated and a common part sought, and they should be done as they have been done in the past. I think that then Estonia will do well, the Minister will do well, the NGOs will do well. Get back to work, get back to work and listen to the NGOs, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U45	Thank you. Next, I'd like a speech chair here at Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U46	Good Chairman! Good coworkers! When we started quoting here, I'm gonna say one. The quote is from "Arabella, daughter of a pirate," where there's this sentence: "Maybe Kanakui-Aadu is right. Maybe he'll make a lot more money with goodness? " You can't deny that people say that after OÜ, you should also review non-profit. What, then, do we have today in civil society as if it were wrong? Is the problem today that we do not have a civil society in Tallinn? I think the bigger problem is that everything is already extremely wrong on the Tallinn side and in decision-making processes. In order to bring such a peasantry, a sense of understanding that is something, we must go together in the middle of Estonia. I don't think it's any question today to explain to the Tallinn hipsters that a street drawing competition costs 4,000 euros and that's not enough. And at the same time, maybe in Viljandi, a person says that we did it at kindergarten with 300, but if you give us 100 euros more, maybe we can make it over-estonian. It is not my opinion, but it is the opinion that the image is already one of the decision-makers today, and today there are some projects that get recognised all the time, and others do not. But we have Estonia as a whole and that is why transparency is needed. Now, the question is, all right, let's get the ASK to that Viljandi, but the decision-makers could be the same. I think the decision-makers could change, too. And the fact that today is made of a member of the administration, a member of the board, such a personal story, well, what do you mean? That's when this place is forever destined for man. Last time I was here, I told some officials I could make gold statues for the Ministry. And then some of them felt touched, but I didn't mean exactly them. And I don't mean that person right now either. There are new winds, new people. I looked today at the same data that Riina introduced to us in the Committee on Social Affairs. We have 22,500 NGOs, we have about 800 foundations and we have 500 religious NGOs. I do not know now whether, for example, football fans' clubs should also be religious, because we are not doing very well in football, but parties rather than NGOs already have religious NGOs. One that has always bothered people in this regard that if you go to the application round and start doing something, you will be required to provide direct beneficiaries and indirect beneficiaries. Yeah, people are gathered in Tallinn, and if you get into any more media, you'll have filled that section. But how much effort do you actually have to make to do this somewhere else? We have urban sprawl, all people are rushing to Tallinn, because here are these lights, everyone wants to do these things here. Let's make this village live once and for all! In my opinion, the Minister has done nothing wrong in this respect, with a bold decision and a transparent competition, not so that someone somewhere thinks that this person should be there because he has already been recognised. I've also done a lot of non-profits and run a lot of non-profits, and I don't think I'm much worse or much better than one or the other or the other. The public competition is what gives us the opportunity to find differences in order for Estonia to live, just as it is in this old song: "As long as your village still lives, so do you! ' Let's make Estonia live, let's not do all these projects just here in Tallinn, Tallinn-centred! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U47	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U48	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The development of a free party is, in fact, a changing challenge in time. I'm sorry! The development of society is a time-changing challenge. The current social agenda ends this year and the Ministry plans to approve the civil society programme for the years 2021 to 2030 in the spring ahead. At the same time, the Civil Society Foundation is moving to Viljandi. According to Agu Liame, Chairman of the Management Board of the Civil Society Foundation, this is actually changing the structure; in Viljandi, practically the whole new working structure has to be built. In such a situation, it is only right to look at all the changes as a whole. In my opinion, Minister Solman and his team are actually worth all the credit. The process of change will ensure the continuity of the work of the Civil Society Foundation, the transfer of experience and know-how, as well as the transfer of the work of the institution to a new level in the new circumstances. All these changes are part of the plan to reduce the centralisation of public authorities and to move state-paid positions out of the capital to other regions. A conference on regional policy is currently taking place in the conference hall of the Riigikogu, and it also highlighted this aspect that it is very important that we continue to move towards the removal of state-paid posts. And here, I think, the Minister of Population is performing a very important regional policy task. I would, however, like to bring here another completely new aspect, which has perhaps been highlighted too little so far. We are talking about better involvement of churches and congregations. Tens of thousands of Estonians belong to the active members of different confessions. I am personally involved with the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church, whose number of donors is approximately 30000 and the number of passive members can be said to be about one hundred thousand. The study on volunteering carried out in 2018 draws attention to the existence of permanent volunteers as an indicator that significantly affects the continuity of non-governmental activities. Such an assessment can only be accepted. Participation in one-off or rare campaigns can solve major and obvious problems that may be sought to attract more attention. Well, there's a figurative example of 'Let's do it! 'Talms. However, long-term responsibility for the well-being of the community and the environment can only be assumed through long-term contributions. The active membership of churches and congregations is characterised by its persistence. Tens of thousands of churches and congregations have enormous human resources and untapped potential. For example, the involvement of Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church congregations as a strategic partner in the development of the society would help to make even better use of this potential. Our Christian congregations are very important partners at grassroots level, both in the social and cultural fields. Let me give you an example. In addition to the development of civil society, better harnessing this potential would help to solve another social problem: how to keep cultural monuments belonging to congregations. Better management and use of these heritage objects are often linked not only to money but also to the drive for development, initiative, and promotion of motivation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U49	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U50	Yes, three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U51	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U52	The functioning of the villagers is also a very good example of how the community at grassroots level can influence and develop life. And to conclude. In my opinion, the untapped potential of theSKE, of which little has been said, lies in the involvement of Christian congregations. I hope that the changes actually initiated by the Minister for Population will also provide an opportunity to make better use of this potential. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U53	Lauri Läänemets has already given her speech here. Is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U54	Yes, thank you! I have a procedural question. If I have understood the Rules of Procedure and Home Law correctly, I went to speak earlier as a representative of a group, but now every member of the Riigikogu has the right to speak. Have I got something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U55	However, one speech, whether as a representative of a political group or as a representative of itself. Okay, but next thing I know, I'm gonna give the floor to Riina Sikkut. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U56	Thank you, good Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to bring out two things. Fortunately, Estonia is so small that, for the most part, it is possible to bring these people together at one table. Well, really, in the case of decisions concerning the hospital network, for example, it is necessary to bring 20 hospital managers to one table. Yes, it can be done, and that is how agreements can be reached. It may be difficult, it may take time, but luckily, we have this opportunity. The same is true when it comes to restructuring in the UK, or even in the society at all. I don't think it's necessary to make decisions on the basis of a few big numbers or someone's gut. Indeed, also this argument that since the NGO Association or the Estonian Association of Non-profit Associations and Foundations has received the most money over the years, it is as if this should not be the case in the future. Maybe it's right, but I'd still like some supporting information. I'm very sorry if decisions are made so superficially. The question is whether they have received this money for their activities or whether it has gone largely to the organizing of the opinion festival and 'Let's do it! ' on the feet, which have a very large regional impact. The opinion festival takes place in Paide, with a large number of different NGOs, research institutions, ministries, companies, it is not EMSL's own money that it uses. And on the other hand, 'Let's do it! The regional policy dimension is just as high. The second question that I am about to have is that, when it comes to the sector NGO which provides services, its ability to apply for funds is much greater than that of the umbrella organisation, whose activities may be coordination, organisation, training. For him, many sources of funding are closed. Therefore, relying on the KÜSK as such a central foundation is perhaps logical. Just before we make that decision, we need to get answers to these two questions. On the other hand, I always give examples of health care, I think we need fewer policies and more cooperation in very many areas. Of course, it may seem easier to decide, either at the level of the Riigikogu or at the level of the government, that we appoint such people to the council, that we share money according to such rules they receive, that they cannot, that we extend or move there. But the real value is still when we are able to see NGOs, businesses, other public authorities as partners with whom we have one goal and with whom we want to reach an agreement and are able to make joint decisions. Whether the issue is, for example, better regional coverage of Council members or something else, I am absolutely sure that it will be possible to reach an agreement with civil society on this. This decision does not have to be made centrally; it does not have to be made quickly. If this is really a concern, then I think that all the people of Estonia want to make regional policy and they are ready to make a sensible decision if there are good arguments and reasons. I also want knowledge-based decision-making on issues concerning NGOs, and that we have more cooperation and less such policies and central decision-making everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U57	Thank you. Looks like there's no more calls. But would the Minister like an additional statement? He does. Please, Minister of Population Riina Solman!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much for the time devoted to civil society. These have been issues that have not been very interesting to my predecessors so far, and that is why this debate is needed and I welcome it. However, when it comes to overshadowed doubts, hesitations, and intimidation, I want to rule them out unambiguously. I don't know if you, Mr. Western Forest, have been lucky for non-profits. I guess you are. I read your big essay, cover story about the last Good Citizens funded by the UK. You were like a cover boy. It is very good that, as a politician, you get the floor in such a publication, but there could also be non-politics, people who, as sparkling people, have done something very big over and over. I myself have dragged several NGOs before coming to politics; I myself am a representative of civil society. I am therefore very sorry to hear that civil society can be intimidated by me. As a matter of fact, I am by nature a builder and also a non-governmental organisation, especially with regard to the SKY, I have the idea and the idea to build up and not break up. I would remind you that this person, on whom you spent a great deal of time in your inquiry, actually proposed the liquidation of theSKA. But that's it. The fear that I'm somehow discriminating against other non-profits is unwarranted. We have 22,500 NGOs, we have a lot of umbrella organizations. As Minister of the People's Republic, I have recognised the work of the CYCLE so far, the work of the NGO Union so far, and I have wished them a cease-fire. The Ministry of the Interior has three social partnership agreements, including the largest volume of the in half the volume with the NGO. This agreement will continue, nothing will change. I would like the NGO to be able to continue to do the same good work. On a smaller scale, we have a partnership agreement with Homeland and also with social entrepreneurs. So there's nothing about moving to the United Kingdom that's gonna change. Nothing's gonna change! Indeed, Mall Hellam sent a diametrically different opinion letter. As far as I have been able to work in civil society as a minister of population for eight months, I cannot say that it has been done without analysis, on the basis of gut or superficially. Everything's been analyzed, everything's meaningful, everything's been taken into account. I have, I think, attended at least four meetings of the EKAK Commission, and Mall Hellam has only attended one of them and talked only about this person. But it's a good thing he wrote. I would like to have a dialogue with all the representatives of civil society, including those who have diametrically different opinions. I have a request for you, dear ambassadors, and especially for you, Mr Läänemets, a good understander, not to politicise the NGOs or the civil society with your fears. I do not think your colleagues would have such doubts if you did not represent this side so forcefully. In any case, I wish you the strength to do a good job with the NGOs and I would like to continue working with you and dialogue. And in the Good Citizens, funded by the UK, we leave room for other representatives of civil society who are not politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U59	Thank you. Thank you very much to the respondents and the questioners and the Minister for their answers. I will conclude the negotiations, and I will also stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U60	Now it is possible for all those who wish to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit! There are two requests today. I'd like Marika Tuus-Laul to come to this speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The five-year transition period for pharmaceutical reform is about to end and, as you can see, chain pharmacies have accepted the situation and are working to ensure that the patient is not left without the medicine. Critical red dots on the pages of the EMA are disappearing because Magnum owner Margus Linnamäe has decided to give her entire family group's pharmacies to pharmacists when the reform takes effect. The Euroapteek is also bringing its pharmacies into line with the law by guaranteeing pharmacist property, and today it is evident that Tamrog is moving that way. However, if we look at the number of drafts still pending on this issue, I think it would be better to withdraw all these drafts, as the situation has changed dramatically in recent days. So far, it was scared that the pharmacies would disappear. But they're not going anywhere. They're staying. Indeed, to fear that pharmacies may disappear, there is only cause if a good coalition partner's EKRE draft should go through. Indeed, the ECRE draft does not protect land pharmacies; it would, on the contrary, lose them. I'm really asking you to understand this once and for all! If the restrictions on location, which were imposed 15 to 16 years ago on my own proposal, were to disappear, new pharmacies would only be created in profitable places, in the shiny shopping centres in cities, where many of them are already ahead. And, of course, because there are no pharmacists, the pharmacists in rural areas are called the city's better pay. I would stress that it is this bill that would lose the land pharmacies. By the way, that was about the year 2005 and before that. I remember how the pharmacies then came to the cities enormously, to the better places everywhere, and how the land pharmacies disappeared in a row. That is when we introduced these restrictions, which actually exist in all countries, because this is not a free enterprise, but a health care service. I'll give you an example. In Hiiumaa, there are, in essence, four pharmacists now; they are just a little short of what they need so that they can all continue to exist. But they are now waiting for this law to stop being pricked, or they will have no confidence to do so. Indeed, good coalition partner EKRE and also Jaanus Kariliid, you should withdraw the reverse of the pharmacy reform. If you don't do it in the next few days, I don't think you can talk about it anymore. Then it would be rather a fear that you would defend the monopoly, power and property of drug dealers, and perhaps something personal, I can't say. But in any case, when Margus Linnamäe is now talking to the state about filing a claim for damages, I recall, by the way, no radio reporter remembered yesterday that chain traders have even lost before the European Court of Justice. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has carried out an in-depth analysis, which should be very thick and thorough for all of you, and has said that this is not about nationalising pharmacies but about imposing operating restrictions. The National Audit Office has said the same thing. The European Commission did not even deal with these 'chaket pharmacies' complaints, as there are pharmacists everywhere in Europe. Our own Supreme Court has also dealt with two licensing processes and businessmen have also lost out there. And if Tamro and Benu chains say today that we still have to discuss with our motherland what happens, then in Germany, all pharmacies are pharmacists. There's nothing to discuss. In any case, I very much ask all of you, good ambassadors, that we also defend these "people's interests" in our actions and that we do medicine and health care together from this pharmaceutical business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U62	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U63	Respectables! I will continue on the subject of civil society and the Foundation of Civil Society and will continue on the point where the minister who has just answered the question has just finished. His final words were to call the members of the Riigikogu to order and to reprimand, and the opinion was that by wishing to discuss the concerns of NGOs in this Chamber, we somehow politicise them or politicise them. I cannot agree with that. I would just like to reiterate that, in the speeches of both the Minister and his party associates, this question was tried to be seen as a question of moving to Estonia as a question of no one being satisfied with the fact that one foundation is being moved to another region of Estonia, it was tried to be shown as a question of regional policy. But no, we do not have any concerns about regional policy. It is very good, I recall that the Social Democrats never initiated this idea, which Minister Solman is now bravely implementing here. It is still more a question of cooperation with NGOs and understanding that no matter what political party the minister is, his thoughts and visions may not always match what people in villages or people in cities or people in associations or people in NGOs think. These opinions do not always coincide. The point of this cooperation and the whole idea of this concept and of civil society, and the whole idea of selecting members of the Civil Society Foundation from NGOs, without the Minister telling them who, how and how to choose, is that perhaps sometimes they often have a different view of politicians. And the point of such cooperation is that NGOs can tell themselves what kind of city, which end of Estonia, which kind of NGO-related person could be in the Civil Society Foundation Council. That is the point of this matter, to be able to choose freely, to express our opinion. Let us forget about this regional policy here. My appeal to the Minister and to everyone else is that you continue to communicate with NGOs, listen to them. Certainly, the Minister has very good thoughts, very right thoughts, but it cannot be that he alone writes to Estonian civil society organisations in advance what and how to live, what and how to do, but it must be done in cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-10_U64	Thank you. There's no more calls, the trial's over. Closure of the sitting at 4:22 p.m.
