ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable members of the government! Let's start another briefing. First, we'll do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U2	25 members of the Riigikogu are present, 76 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas and Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab. And as always, first there are registered questions. The questioner will have the opportunity to ask an additional, more specific question and then one question may be asked from the floor. The time to ask a question is two minutes, please comply with it, and it is three minutes. Before we go to the questions, I want to inform you a little bit about yesterday's board meeting. As you can see from the questions that have been asked, we are once again in a situation where only the Prime Minister will answer and no questions have been put to other ministers. Question Time is primarily meant for the opposition, but it is not intended for the rest of the ministers to sit and waste their expensive working hours for two hours. We have discussed this on several occasions in the Bureau. I would like to put it to everyone's heart that you take the opportunity to ask the other ministers as well. Otherwise, the Bureau will have to take some measures: whether we are going to amend the Home and Working Procedures Act, we will go back to earlier practice, so that in three consecutive Question Hours other ministers will answer the questions and then there will be a mere Prime Minister Question Time, or then we will also be taking questions from the members of the Coalition, because it is actually possible, it is not prohibited. But I am asking in the future to avoid a situation where there really are questions for only one minister. But let's go... Does Mr. Networker have a question, or isn't he?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U3	Yeah, it's a procedural question. You started by saying that once again, the questions are only for the Prime Minister. Could you please give us a figure of how many such situations there have been? As far as I know, that's not very often.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U4	There's been a lot of them. If you'd like, I'll ask you to put together the statistics and send them to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U5	But let's go to Question Time tonight. The first interviewer registered is Indrek Saar and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U6	Thank you. I would also have liked to say, as a procedural remark, that if the board has such concerns, we have a form of work such as the body of elders. It could be discussed there and not spent such epistles on the great hall of the Riigikogu. Such questions about the organisation of the work of the Riigikogu are certainly not very interesting for those who follow our Question Time and want to listen to the discussion of important matters of state life. So there are better formats to discuss it. But I come to my question. Prime Minister! I'm quite puzzled when I look at the government's current actions. In terms of our health, we are far beyond what we reached in the spring when we were infected with the corona virus. Indicators have steadily increased and the fact that the second wave is coming has been known for a long time. One of the preventive measures has been what the Health Board has always put to the heart: people, do not go to work sick. At the same time, we know that those who earn less than EUR 1000 per month will lose at least EUR 100 of their income in the first week of their stay, and this is a very difficult choice for them. The government has so far failed to reach a decision when discussing the issue of sick days that people can stay home if they have signs of disease without losing much of their pay. Why don't you want to do something about it? Do you think this is an unnecessary decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Very Honourable Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you very much. In any case, I also ache every minute, every hour and every day after the heart of this disease COVID-19. But first of all, your first comparison of the Estonian figures compared to spring. If we want to compare the situation that was in the spring across Europe, as it is now in Europe, first and foremost, because compared to all other continents or continents, we can see that European figures are rising, they are the fastest, and that is, in a negative sense, not really possible. Because situations are not comparable. I would say here today: thank God they are not comparable. In this sense, it is not comparable how many people are now in the medical system, how much is in controlled breathing. Of course, it can never be said that one person who has to leave because of the COVID-19 would in any way be justified or should not pay attention to it. Of course, we are fighting to ensure that no human should leave his life because of this disease. I think the core of your question is why we have not gone to full compensation for sick days. After all, there is a principle that the first, second and third days will not be reimbursed. A similar measure was actually in the spring, it lasted for a few months, it was a temporary measure and quite a number of people actually remained at home under this measure. It is now a question of finding a balance between the unemployment fund and the sickness fund. I am thinking of an agreement between employers, trade unions and the government. Today, indeed, one solution has been proposed to temporarily start to compensate from the second day, not the fourth day, to change the number of days reimbursed by employers, to reduce it by one, but to bring it forward. And then, from day six, you should start paying for sick days at the taxpayer's, say, health insurance fund. These discussions will certainly continue. I cannot say that these discussions have ended. Yes, there is no agreement at the moment, but these discussions will certainly continue. This, of course, also means budgetary changes, and all of this we must look at as a whole. I certainly want to congratulate all employers on this issue too, because I know that there are already quite a few employers who are paying for the first days of sickness, and that is what they are doing out of their free will, not following some regulation of the law. And it is a sensible choice, because really, as you said, staying home with symptoms of illness is in the interests of every employee, but also of the employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U8	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U9	However, there is one thing in all of this, and I welcome it, in which I can agree with the Prime Minister. I very much appreciate these employers. But why don't we go help these employers? They today, at the expense of their resources, and many employers have just as difficult times as they do, make these grateful decisions and allow people who have the suspicion or signs of disease to stay at home. Why don't we go as a country in a situation where the Health Board has been telling us for over a month that one of our main problems is that there are outbreaks of disease in the workplace? It makes perfect sense that we contribute to ensuring that people do not go to work with disease symptoms. And you have in no way been able to argue adequately that this is not a problem. It is very difficult for people, especially those with lower pay and unable to work remotely, to expect to stay home and be struggling to pay their bills at the end of the month, and to organise their daily lives financially. Why haven't you been able to do anything since then? It is no consolation that we are somewhat better off compared to the rest of Europe. Our last 14 days' rate of infection per 100,000 people is higher than ever. It's going up really good these past few days. A large number of health experts have pointed out that the situation is critical. Why haven't we done anything so far? And yet the second wave was coming, we had known months ago. The Social Democrats have already submitted a draft to this effect at the beginning of September; trade unions have been talking about this for months. Who has actually prevented you from doing anything to prevent or reduce these potential lesions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U10	Thank you. I cannot agree in any way with your saying or criticism that we have done nothing. You will take one and certainly a significant piece of this I will not argue out and say that we have done nothing, generalise. This generalisation is certainly not correct. We have asked you, honourable Riigikogu, for next year's budget, but we have also proposed in the budget strategy of the country for the next four years because there is a tax gap because, in addition to the health crisis, there is an economic crisis that has led to a very serious tax cut-off, to allocate ca 540 million additional resources to the health insurance fund in order to be able to continue providing scheduled treatment, to carry on various medical activities. Secondly, yesterday the government also decided to go against new restrictions to prevent the spread of the virus. It is true that Estonia can say today that we are certainly considering very seriously different restrictions. Yesterday, we discussed, for example, the limitation of events, both indoor and outdoor, who is in favour of who is opposed, but it can be said that the number that we are currently allowed under indoor conditions, I think, is at least not in the European Union. I can't say it's only positive. Of course, there is a very high risk that infection can spread due to its presence on the border, as a rule, at such large mass events. But today it can be said that such cultural events, cultural events, really have introduced a lot of trust measures so that the virus does not spread. And at the moment, it cannot be said that, for example, in theatre or cinema, the spread of the virus has been high. When you come back to the sick days, as I said, these discussions are ongoing. This also means that a financial cover must be found, which means that this system must be agreed with both employers and trade unions. At the moment, they have suggested that the compensation should start on the second day, not the fourth day. For the second to fifth day, employers would pay 70% and then the health insurance fund would pay further. I think this proposal deserves further discussion, further consideration. And as soon as we find a solution to both this substantive issue and the financial cover, I believe we are ready to take this step. But really, like in spring, for a short time now. We know that the system we have reached has been in place in Estonia for 11 years. It was introduced in 2009 during the crisis at that time and so far it has worked. This year we launched a temporary measure in spring and certainly these discussions are now continuing during the autumn period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U11	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U12	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! However, I think it is not enough that you say that there are discussions, but there is no agreement. I would encourage you to say why there are no such agreements and why there are only debates. The automatic compensation of the first day is simply not sustainable. There's too much moral hazard, and it's starting to become a problem on its own. I'm not criticizing you because you're in this position. But the second, successful measure in the event of a crisis is pay compensation. Here I have doubts about whether you are making the right decisions. There are certain areas that get a bigger bang than the others in proportion from far and far away. You know these areas: catering, tourism, etc. In order to keep them, they themselves have proposed to continue the wage subsidy. Over-the-field wage support is certainly unsustainable. But are you considering sectoral selectivity in order to bring this measure back anyway? After all, in the spring, we spoke with very one voice to Eesti Pank that the measures are quite universal at first, but when the situation becomes clear in autumn they can be made more selective. Do you have this issue up in the government or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U13	Thank you very much, Mr. Ligi. I was here to answer, and I think or rather not, but I am convinced that in most of the members of the Reform Party Group who asked me about the tourism sector on Monday. But there were also members of the Social Democratic Party Group. The introduction on behalf of the heirs was Katri Raik on Monday. What am I saying? First of all, yes, it is true that the unemployment fund still has the resources to provide wage support. This system was established once again with the help of employers and trade unions in the spring of this year. I believe that you will agree, or at least I hope, that this system was effective, helped many people, helped maintain employment relationships, avoided redundancies, but it was also very expensive. Now, is this measure to be taken again within the limits of what is currently in the unemployment fund? I think that we must also consider the situation from this point of view, that we do not know when this crisis will actually end. We do not know when the vaccine will come on the market, when the pandemic is over. So keeping any reserves for even more difficult moments, I think, is reasonable. It's worth it. Now, if I may extend your question to whether we have thought of this sector, as you said, catering, hotels, tourism in the broadest sense, in addition. All that I said in response to the question, of course, applies today. There are the largest support measures related to one part of the Re-launch Plan, or REACT-EU. We are also planning to apply there for the necessary measures to contribute to the tourism sector, but I would stress: to apply, because these decisions are not yet in place. Now, what's changed with Monday? It's Wednesday afternoon. Yesterday, the government decided to support hotels, restaurants, domestic tourism and tourism in this sector with an additional €5 million. This is in addition to the EUR 5.8 million that has been decided on. How does it divide? In this respect, the Minister for Industry received an order or a request that within two weeks he should develop, in cooperation with EAS, the Enterprise Development Foundation, a 5 million use measure, how this distribution could take place and on what basis. So this has been one concrete step that has been taken here in less than 48 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U14	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U15	The next question, No 2, will be asked by Kaja Kallas and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U16	Thank you. Good George! I think people are gonna ask you exactly like they're gonna ask me when this shit is gonna end. And by that crap, they mean that from week to week, people have to be embarrassed about how government ministers behave. I see it, and I know it's gonna upset you, too. The government is not dealing with the challenges facing Estonia, but it is working out its relations from week to week. You have said that this coalition is the only one in Estonia, but it is not. Actually, there are other options. There is no need to hold on to this if there is nothing that can be done for Estonia. That's why I have a specific proposal for you. What if, as Prime Minister and I as the leader of the opposition, we put in place such a procedure that we meet regularly, even every week, for example, to discuss the challenges facing Estonia and look for possible cooperation places? Then you shouldn't worry about how you can justify it to your coalition mates that you're meeting me. And actually, we could do it calmly. What if we introduced such regular communication to solve the challenges facing Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U17	Good Echo! Thank you for your reply, question or appeal. My answer. Does it upset me when I have to come out of Estonia's concert hall on Father's Day, where the father of the year has just been named to take out a phone that has been silent and to read the first news of a notorious radio show that has once again broken our strategic relations, in this case with the United States? Yes, it does. Not just because it was Father's Day. I think we all wanted to have a good time on Sunday and be with our family. Because of my duties, this was no longer possible after that. It's not complaining, it's just the way it was. Of course it's frustrating. And I immediately said through social media that this is completely absurd and wrong; for Estonia, strategic relations with the United States are our cornerstone. That has been the case, today is the case, and it will certainly remain that way in the future. There is no question at all whether the United States is a democratic rule of law. Answer: Yes, of course it is. Yes, of course it is! And one of the hallmarks of the democratic rule of law is that if there are disputes and there is no other way to argue, then there will be disputes in court. This is the case in Estonia, and it is not bad. I think that our strategic cooperation with the United States will certainly continue during the time of the new President, Joe Biden. I've congratulated her, wanted her strength. Regardless of who is the President of the United States and who is in the White House, these relations are of vital importance to us. These have been good and strong, and certainly these strong relationships will continue. Point one. I don't know that I would have said such a sentence that today's coalition is the only way. I have said that today's coalition is the best that can be in the Riigikogu today. That's what I've been saying. I'm also saying today that this is a broad-based coalition, and this coalition works. I've also said that the coalition can be together as long as it works. If he doesn't work anymore, the coalition won't make any sense. So that's what I'm saying, because of all the absurd crap that has had to be dealt with, it can't be said that the coalition hasn't done the day-to-day work. Even with regard to this COVID, very specific and clear decisions have been made. Now, from our meeting, so no one can hear it, and in the middle of the day, can the opposition leader and coalition leader meet? In my opinion, this can even be recorded in the Home and Working Procedures Act: but of course they can, and they must.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U18	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U19	In court, they usually say, "Don't stay naked." I am going to say very specifically that we will then introduce this regular meeting procedure. When do we start? Give me the date and the time, today!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U20	Thank you, Echo! I think Question Time is so valuable for all members of the Riigikogu that we can agree on the day, time and place of this meeting elsewhere. I know you have my phone number, I have your phone number, but we can make a deal. I've never had anything against meeting the politicians, I'd be happy to do it. And certainly, as you say, the issues facing Estonia must be discussed, whether there is a coalition or opposition. Of course it's coming!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U21	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U22	Thank you. Good George! I actually liked that question, and even that answer. Of course, I'd be happy to hear something more specific. I imagine, as far as I know, there is no country in the world where the leader of the government and the leader of the opposition meet regularly, so that this could be a small example for the world of how a small Estonia builds a great democracy. We could make Estonia big again. But I'd go even further than Echo. I'm not asking you to say the date and the time, but I'm suggesting that maybe every week is too often, but we have sitting-free weeks and then it's Monday if you don't have to come here to answer questions. Agree, every three weeks or then every four weeks, how do you work out, on Monday, a sitting-free week, what is it, 2:00 or 3:00? For example, at three o'clock, you get together and discuss things. The whole world would be a much better place to live.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U23	Good Mr. Randpere, thank you. I was thinking maybe you'd even start suggesting a menu that you could eat at this meeting, start what and finish what. That wouldn't have been too bad. But I think, of course, not being a respected member of the Riigikogu today, but having done some of this work here in the honourable assembly, it is not the case that if there is a week without sitting, then a member of the Riigikogu has some free time and also a member of the government, if there are no questions. I think there's a lot of work. There is a lot of work for a member of the Riigikogu. After all, there has been a bit of a struggle on this subject that you can see that the members of the Riigikogu work for three weeks and there is nothing to do for the fourth week. I've always said we're talking about hearings. From meetings! A week without sitting does not mean that members of the Riigikogu do not work. On the contrary, it is, in fact, I would even say, the basic work that results most seriously from the point of view of the Constitution. A member of the Riigikogu is free to exercise his mandate. If I am not mistaken, the idea is also in the Home and Working Procedures Act that a member of the Riigikogu must always look at the picture of Estonia, all the people of Estonia. And then whisk around this 45,000 square kilometers only one week a month. It's pretty big both physical and, I'd say, mental effort, because there's lots of meetings and there's a lot of problems to solve. People want to talk to members of the Riigikogu and believe that they can solve their own questions. So to lock here at two o'clock on Monday, the Riigikogu sitting, as you said very rightly, and I also remember the working schedule of the Riigikogu, should start at three o'clock and you also fixed yourself, at three o'clock, wouldn't I dare, really? Maybe Echo needs to be somewhere else, I need to be somewhere else, but you've told me to meet you here. At the same time, it can be said that a member of the Riigikogu can give direction to a member of the government, but let me breathe a little. Maybe there are some other very important meetings, I don't know, like the Scientific and Development Council, how I say I can't meet. Now we really need to discuss where we're putting this 1% of GDP, don't we? Of course, if you support it. I call on you to support this in the budget. Or we could take a different case that, for example, I don't know, Echo or I have a defence-related meeting. Big investments, you can't cancel this meeting. So don't, Mr. Randpere, force it on. It is necessary to be creative and flexible in political matters, as well as in these meetings. That's right. And I also thank you for calling for such informal communication. You also have a meeting, I look at every Sunday night, in front of the entire Estonian people as a representative of the opposition of the courts. I think the last time you met Mr. Karilai, you met TV3 live. Or is it a recording? I don't know exactly. But you're pretty good at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U24	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U25	Question number three from Evgeni Ossinovski. He'll be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U26	Thank you. Prime Minister, the friendliness of the Reform Party has made you feel better. It is certainly a pleasure to see this, and I hope that my question will continue with this happy mood. I read the coalition agreement on the issue that your other government has made a priority. One of the key issues in Estonia's life, which must be resolved even in a referendum, is the definition of marriage. Of course, the majority government has the right to formulate the most important issues in society at this point in time. I read about the coalition agreement you agreed on. And as a result, I have some questions. In the coalition agreement, you are talking about the aim of holding a referendum on other matters of state life. Now, your partymates, I don't know if you do, but your partymates will definitely use the expression about the referendum that it's a public poll. It's almost like Norstat's rating. Consequently, the question is: what legal advice has been given to the Prime Minister in this context? For example, the Chancellor of Justice believes that the question of whether marriage should remain an alliance between a man and a woman is by its very nature the answer. If this is in the affirmative by the majority of Estonian people, this is basically the weight of the constitutional norm and § 1 of the Family Law of the Riigikogu can no longer be amended, which has also been the purpose of the EKRE and your government in organising it. Consequently, my first question is: do you agree with the Chancellor of Justice that the result of the referendum is a decision of the weight of the constitutional rule? Or do you think it's the kind of people's polls that let's see what the people say, but there's nothing going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U27	Thank you, Evgeny! I have to be honest with you, and it's genuinely said that you've never made me feel bad. On the contrary! On the contrary, we have always had constructive discussions at various meetings and you will see that we do not need to discuss here in Riigikogu Question Time whether or not we meet. I'll see you around! I'll see you around! You live in a place where my job is pretty close, so sometimes we meet on the corner, sometimes somewhere else. I was thinking about your question today, preparing an answer for my party, and I came to the conclusion that the Centre Party has really been standing for this kind of, well, direct democracy for the longest time. And just so we have two means of direct democracy. One is a popular initiative and the other is a referendum. If we think about it, the draft public initiative is initiated by the Central Party Group, and I had to wind up quite a bit in history papers and archival papers, but I hope everything went well in 2003, 2005 and 2006. Like a tantrum: always killed, the Central Party started again. And went on: 2008, 2013 and 2016. I'm among the last of them. So I've seen that we've started it more often than the Olympics. But first, I think it is a referendum. Point one. Point two is that you are asking whether this is a constitutional rule: is it or what is its legal connection, its legal effect? I have to admit, the lawyers are actually arguing about it. You know, two lawyers, at least three opinions. I think it is quite difficult to say this final answer, but my sense of feeling is that, if, for example, in this referendum, a marriage is between a man and a woman, then, of course, it has a certain legal power. The question is what else is being debated. If we go into more detail, there will be debate over how long it will have legal force. Such interesting points of view have also been put forward by the various lawyers and, in my opinion, this debate should continue to be held as to how it is actually seen. But there really are lawyers who say: yes, the connection with the constitutional rule is very strong. This means that the family law, which states that marriage is between a man and a woman, can only be changed if we have a new referendum with a different outcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U28	Evgeny Ossinovski, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U29	Thank you for that answer. Perhaps you can explain what kind of lawyer's answer, as head of government, will guide you in this matter? What's the purpose? I know what the EKRE's goal is. The aim of the EKRE is to be supported by the Chancellor of Justice in this interpretation: only by a referendum could it be changed. Are the representatives of the Centre Party who talk about the polls trying, on the basis of other lawyers' opinions, to say that its legal effect is, in fact, very limited or non-existent? That is the clarification of the first question. And the second question is that the next point in the coalition agreement is that, if the result is positive, we will adopt an amendment to the constitution. Since there has been some dynamics in the debate on this issue, I wonder whether this point of the coalition agreement is still valid. This coalition leaders, with their signature, may not have overwritten as certain sections of the Constitution. Or have there been any new views here? Because in this context, if there is an agreement that it will complement the Constitution, the meaning of this referendum is in itself agreed in the coalition agreement that the aim is that it should be a constitutional rule in one way or another. How will this second point be realised? However, the proposal to respond to it is that, if you really think it is such an important issue, such a priority issue that it is necessary to include the definition of marriage in the Constitution, perhaps a fair referendum on the amendment of the Constitution. Wouldn't that be easier for everyone, clearer, no legal disputes? It would be fair for the people of Estonia to ask them for a position that would have a specific clear legal effect and the Constitution could be improved if the majority of Estonian people thought so. And if not, no.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U30	Thank you, Evgeny! Now you're totally fishing for me. You're a good politician. You ask, you answer. But first of all, I think we need to talk about the fact that this is another matter of state life and it would be conducted in the context of a referendum. Now, speaking of this question, you really have prepared very well today, you know the coalition agreement signed by the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party, by heart. True, the proposed draft is a question: do you support the proposal to supplement Article 27 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and to define marriage as an alliance between a man and a woman? It is now a question of what opportunities are there to put this amendment to the Constitution to a referendum. Will you help with your group? Ten votes? After all, on our first day of work, Raimond Kaljulaid jumped over to you, who is currently not in the hall with 11 votes. You'll find 50 more votes here. It can be done. But we need 61 votes. There are 61 votes in the coalition at the moment, it seems, there are no votes in this matter. But if the Social Democrats come to help, they will. Then it is! So you guys need to discuss this alone. But let's say those voices aren't there right now. Then there can really be a referendum on another matter of state life. Now, we've been thinking about it, and I think things will get better over time. And I think it is a good thing that voters are no longer being confused, so they do not know what they will then come to vote: either the local government council or to answer in a referendum. Now it's clear. In spring, we will vote on whether marriage is between a man and a woman, and in autumn, 17 October, people will be able to come and vote in favour of these individual candidates, lists or political parties who are candidates for membership in 79 local governments. I think it is good that the debate focus in the autumn will be on local issues. What are these? Social sector, education, utilities, roads and streets, kindergartens, all important issues for people. Now the question, will this be followed by a constitutional amendment? It's like you know the answer. How do you know? But maybe the answer will be no. I think you asked assuming there was going to be a yes. Option, if there's no answer, you didn't specify. What can I say about that? The truth is that if you put this coalition agreement on the table, there is no referendum on this issue. The question in the referendum is a different one. So I guess we'll have to think about how to go from here to here. And now there's this connection. I think that these public debates, I watched, today Riigikogu member Jaak Valge wrote a very interesting article, I think a very balanced article in the press, are and will be very interesting legal discussions about the legal or legal consequences of the result obtained. So the power for all of us to have these balanced debates!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U31	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Today's Estonian Express has a story titled 'Show your worst, Mordor! '. Martin Helme welcomed the members of the Riigikogu on Monday at the beginning of his mistrust. The story gives an overview of the statement made by Mart and Martin Helme in a Sunday radio show, where they say in a clear way that the American presidential elections are counterfeit, they mock Joe Biden, the winner of the elections, and they speak with conviction about the counterfeiting of the Estonian elections. Among other things, Mr Helme has said: 'I do not think there is any question that these elections are fraudulent. I think all normal people should take the floor. You don't have the point of talking about some kind of democracy or the rule of law or... There is no point in talking about anything like this when elections can be so vulgarly, so blatantly, so massively faked. " Mart Helme has had to resign under pressure from the opposition because of what he said. Martin Helme was repeatedly given the opportunity to explain his words or to withdraw them when he mistrusted him, but he did not. My question is: do you agree with what Mr Helme said about the American presidential election and Joe Biden? If so, please explain, if no, what is Martin Helme still doing in your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U33	Thank you. I recall our law on home and working procedures. The question registered concerned a referendum and, in connection with this, I will read out one paragraph of our Home and Working Procedures Act, which says: 'A government member may reasonably refuse to reply if the matter does not concern the problem mentioned in the application... '. But it's a remark, the Minister has, of course, the right to decide for himself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U34	I thank the President of the Riigikogu very much! Thanks for that line. If the Riigikogu allows me, I will answer this question, which is really not directly related to Mr Ossinovski's question, but no indirectly can. Mr Ossinovski thought this question through very seriously, and now you have come to me. But of course I'll answer. I mean, we were talking about it. Mr Helme and I had a discussion on this, and I asked if he could see that the United States is a democratic rule of law. He said yes, he does. Yes, he does! Now for what's in the Express today. I'm so sorry, there's been a lot of hard consultations since this morning. I haven't read it yet. But I'm sure by your instructions, when the work day ends at night, I'll try to take care of it. I don't know if it was behind the tax wall. Well, these days, all these things are behind the tax wall, but luckily, we have these passwords, I'll get in there somehow. What else do I want to tell you? There is no question here: our most strategic partner, the United States, is a democratic rule of law. The fact is that there are disputes there today, I do not know how many of these disputes there are, but, as I answered the first question, that is one of the hallmarks of the democratic rule of law. If no agreement is reached, no agreement will be reached, then a dispute will be held and a solution will be found in court. I believe that the system that exists in the United States is certainly a complex system. I don't know what this system is, but I'm sure I trust them, and they'll make their choice. They're making their choice! The people have made their choice in the United States. We don't choose with you, Mr. Gridship, I, no one here chooses the President of the United States, that choice is made by the American people. That's right. We are trying to manage our affairs well here in Estonia, and I believe we can do well. I guess the key issue right now is to fight this virus. Now, the Estonian elections, which you also noted, are either the Estonian elections somehow counterfeit or something like that. No, I don't think he's fake. I think that we are making an effort to ensure that the Estonian elections are as fair as the meaning and provision of the law is, that they are transparent and that every person can make his or her decision as he or she wishes. Thank you, Mr. Gridship.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U35	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U36	Question 4, asked by Marko Mihkelson and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. George Ligi has a procedural question. Please! Or Jürgen Ligil, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U37	Yes, Jürgen Ligi also has a procedural question, so now there are two. If you made a remark to the questioner that maybe the question is not quite relevant, shouldn't the respondent be informed that he didn't actually answer the question? He agreed to respond, you kindly offered him this opportunity, but he did not answer absolutely the question of Martin Helme continuing in the government. Was this comment not relevant?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U38	There's a slight difference. Of course, any member of the Riigikogu may ask any questions he or she wishes, and the respondent may answer him or her in the way he or she wishes. But if there is a question recorded in Question Time on a specific subject, then it is on this subject that questions must be asked. I read about this section from our home and our rules of procedure. Unfortunately, that is the case, all of us should follow the rules that we have adopted ourselves. But please, Marko Mihkelson, here you go, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U39	Thank you. Let's move on to the same subject. The most important document of Estonia's foreign and security policy is 'Basics of Estonian Security Policy', which is valid as the last version since 2017. It states, among other things, that good relations between Estonia and the United States strengthen Estonia's security and transatlantic cooperation, and that Estonia wishes to promote comprehensive bilateral relations with the United States in all important areas and to intensify dialogue between the two countries. On this basis, it was perfectly logical that the Prime Minister made it clear on Saturday that Joe Biden was winning the United States elections, a congratulations message, stressing that the United States of America continues to be an important ally and a close friend to Estonia. Not a day went by when the infamous radio show, mentioned by the Prime Minister, was also heard with the quotes that my colleague Mart Võrguship has already mentioned. However, in addition to what he said, Mr Helme said that there was no question at all that these elections were fake, Mr Helme also said that the pattern of the Biden family in the public service had been to receive money from American strategic opponents. What will such people do when they receive the presidency? asked Martin Helme. Yesterday he had the opportunity to tell his colleagues here in the Riigikogu that America is a democratic state, even more so, that these statements about the future President of the United States had failed and that he apologizes. Of course, he didn't do anything like that, and he stuck to his own words. My question is: how is it possible for a member of the government to contribute to strengthening relations between Estonia and the United States, which ridicule your views and drives a double foreign policy, which divides society with conspiracy theories?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U40	Mr Mihkelson, thank you for this question. I'm sorry, but Mr. Ligi here upset me that I didn't answer the previous question. I did answer and I can also repeat: Martin Helme was distrusted, the Riigikogu did not distrust him, and Martin Helme continues to work as Minister of Finance. Now, coming to your question, Mr Mihkelson, I will repeat again and I am prepared to repeat it ten, one hundred or one thousand times, that the US is an important ally for the Republic of Estonia. We share common values and common interests with the US. For Estonia, a strong transatlantic bond has always been important; it is important today and will also be important in the future. For us, it is also important that we have a very deep bilateral relationship with the United States, regardless of how the people of the United States have decided who is next, the next or the next president of the United States in the White House. I have always pursued these principles in my work, those views that our relations with the United States must be fully strengthened, that these relations must be developed in full, regardless of the political power in the United States. And no matter what kind of political power is in power in Estonia. In the opposition, it is also possible for the opposition politician to do something. I am telling you that I do not doubt for a moment the functioning of the US rule of law, the ability of the democratic system to hold elections transparently, fairly, honestly. If there are any disputes that exist today, they'll argue in court. The fact that the United States is a democratic rule of law, I have been discussing this issue, as I have already confirmed for several times, with the Minister of Finance, Martin Helme. He's said he's okay with it. He agrees, but there are disputes up there. It's true that the arguments are up. As you said, I really thought it was the right time to congratulate the future President of the United States when I saw that he had received the necessary number of voters, full of support. In fact, that support was already over at that moment. But in some states, there are still disputes. Now, you're talking about the government. The government has actually defined Estonia's relations with the US in the foreign policy landscape on 8 August 2019, 6 August 2020 and lastly on 5 November 2020, when we approved the memorandum on relations with the US. It foresees that we will continue to have strong relations with the United States and also at different points of contact in Europe. Let it be security, be it defence policy, be it cyber security, be it energy cooperation, these are all important issues. Estonia continues. This is the position of the Estonian Government, which has not changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U41	Marko Mihkelson, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U42	Thank you. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to my question. I asked how Martin Helme's statements in a situation where he does not actually apologize for his words contribute to the promotion and strengthening of relations between Estonia and the United States that you want. Here's my follow-up question. I don't quite get it now. You've had to apologize or explain the EKRE's activities in both internal and foreign policy matters for a year and a half: that I've talked to him now, he understood, he says he's okay, let's move on. On 22 October, you even concluded a great friendship pact with each other at coalition level, where you said that you did not hate each other, that you did not hate each other, that I suppose, the people of Estonia and our allies. It didn't take very long for us to hear words like 'freaks' and 'types'. In addition, as I said earlier, how Mr Helme has treated the future president and his family of our main ally. I do not believe at any point that you will soon be back before us on any other matter, whether internal or foreign, and that you will once again have to apologise and explain what the EKRE politicians have done or have not done in this case, Mr Helme. My question is still one that the Estonian public has not received a clear answer from you either. Mart Helme resigned because of what he said, and Martin Helme has not. His words had exactly the same weight, the same content. Martin Helme is also the chairman of an Estonian political party in addition to a member of the government. How much longer will Martin Helme continue as a member of the government? For example, it should be taken into account that in less than 24 hours you gave up Mikhail Korb when he had questioned Estonia's membership of NATO?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U43	Thank you, Mr Mihkelson. It seems to me that the debate with you will remain that no matter what the subject is, if I answer your questions, you will say that it is not enough, you do not understand etc. And then you finally put it on your Facebook to see how. But I don't think you want to understand, you don't want to listen, not to mention that you want to understand this thing. Now you're blaming us for putting the signatures down when there really was a government crisis and the government crisis started to work out. I believe you are well aware that I will compliment you here, as a very good foreign policy expert, that only compromises can go forward in politics. There's no other way. There's no other way! I have also studied this for the last four years at European Union level, where there are sometimes very fundamental debates on values, but a compromise is still being found. And I think the compromise is always better than breaking up or breaking up. But that's not what you're saying. You're saying you signed it and see what happened. But what happened is that it also bears political responsibility. The Minister of the Interior resigned, it was the only possible step of this coalition to take the next step and move on. He took political responsibility. Of course, this is not enough for the Reform Party. I think Mr Ossinovski said in an interview somewhere, he is also a opposition politician, that two letters of the Estonian alphabet were placed on this motion of distrust. One was 'i' and the other was 'n'. They added Martin behind Mardi's name and put this motion of distrust on this table. It actually showed what, didn't it? It showed one thing on your part: political gambling. This political responsibility... You're accusing me of signing signatures and nothing changed. Yes, it did! Yes, it did. Very clearly it did. Those words that were said on this radio show, I think to the coalition, it meant that you can't go any further from here. And this issue was resolved by the Minister of the Interior taking political responsibility, but from then on, the political gambling started on your side, by the Reform Party. I might be wrong, I don't know how many signatures that mistrust statement had, was that number suddenly 34. I think it actually showed political gambling: against anyone, but as long as we can turn in a motion of mistrust. Responsibility was taken, political responsibility was assumed. And I do not agree that these signatures were simply not given.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U44	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U45	Thank you. Good Prime Minister, I was pleased to hear that you expressed views that are appropriate to the Prime Minister and member of the government of the Republic of Estonia when you spoke about the fact that the United States is our most important strategic partner, about the free and democratic elections in the United States of America and about the functioning of the rule of law in the United States. But your government minister, whose name is Martin Helme, has said and expressed a black, white position: there is no question at all that these elections are fraudulent, and if Trump is taken out of power, then the Constitution no longer applies in America, and that means that there is no freedom or democracy in America anymore. My question to you is: can you promise us here that Martin Helme will take back his words and publicly apologize? I understand that you have spoken to him and he has expressed the view that the elections were free and democratic and that the United States is the rule of law. If he does not do so, will you make the same decision about Martin Helme that you made about Mart Helme that such a minister cannot be part of the government of the Republic of Estonia with such views?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U46	Thank you, Mr. Sutt. I made my views very clear on relations between the United States and Estonia. They are strategic, they are allies, they are close relations in NATO, but they are also bilateral relations. And these are not only my words, but are the positions of the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Most recently, the Government of the Republic has renewed these positions on 5 November 2020 when these positions were brought to the government by Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu. And I support and the entire government supports these positions. The entire government supports these positions without any exception, without any change. And it stays that way. As I said, I have really congratulated Joe Biden on his election to the 46th President of the United States, and I did so on 7 November. Certainly, Mr Biden has shown in his very long-term political career that he is a strong supporter of the Baltics and Estonia. Now, I think we need to talk about the open text that whoever this woman is or who this man, who is the President or Vice-President of the United States, I want to say, honourable members of the Riigikogu and Mr Sutt: it is the free and democratic choice of the people of the United States in their rule of law. And what I want to tell you is that it's valid today and it's valid tomorrow. And it's been in place for four years. The question is how it has been in place before. I'm not gonna do the laundry here. But I think whoever this woman or man is, whether she's a Republican or a Democrat, it's our job to ensure strategic relations with the United States. And I think that applies to everyone. We can also think a little bit about what it's been like, I don't know, a wider picture in the public for the last four years. I have to admit, there have been times where I've wondered why one person or another has said such a sentence. No, you don't! Don't! That last radio show, too, is one of those. Now, as I said to you, political responsibility on this issue has been taken. For one party, I think this is quite a political responsibility. And the reason we got there was because their own words were on that radio. And if you ask me about Martin Helme, I have told you several times: we have talked about this, he has said that he fully understands that the United States is a democratic rule of law where these disputes must be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U47	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U48	The next question in order is Question 5. It's presented by Helmen Kütt and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U49	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The health crisis we have experienced during the crown virus is very important for the first days of the symptoms. We can see that there are a lot of monsters in this crisis, namely, workplace monsters. I know, and you also said, in answering Mr Ossinovski's question, that the government will discuss the reimbursement of sick days from a certain day and that these discussions will continue. Was it on the table and under consideration that, as long as the trialogues are discussed and debated, and as a result of the trialogue, the possibility of a short-term compensation for upper respiratory tract infection or disease from day one, as was the case in spring? Perhaps these several workplace hotspots would not have existed if people had been sure that if they had a sore throat, a cold or a cough and stayed at home, they would not lose their income. Unfortunately, the Committee on Social Affairs voted down the draft proposed by the Socialists on compensation for sick days on the first day. It will come to the vote in this Chamber, but I have no hope that if the coalition has decided so, it will still find support and will remain in the process, although if the government were to reach an agreement, it would have been possible to table amendments within the deadline for the amendments and we would have made it more effective. Was there an option for short-term reimbursement of these days for respiratory diseases?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U50	Thank you very much, Mrs. Helmen Hunter. Thank you for this very important question. First of all, do we still have the most hearths in the job? I don't think we can say that today. I'm going to say it by heart now, but I think the most hearths are probably in the family circle right now. Well, the percentage second is probably unknown where these fires come from, and if you add up the percentage of cases that are being identified, I think it's the largest group. But that's it. Of course, there are quite a lot of fires in the workplace and this is very important information about the daily addition of COVID-positive people to the workplace that people get sick at the workplace. Point one. Point two is I don't want to hurt Mr. Island here. Mr Ossinovski spoke to me about the referendum. And we talked together about how great it is for us to be and that we do not have to agree here in Riigikogu Question Time when we will meet or not meet. But that is what Mr Indrek Saar asked me about these sick days. What do I want to tell you? Certainly, the first thing that matters is that there are quite a number of people who are asymptomatic, but who, in fact, are still having problems spreading the virus, aren't they? Now, if you are asking whether there has been a proposal for a temporary change in the reimbursement of sick days in the debate, to bring it earlier than since the fourth day of sickness, the answer is: yes, there has been a debate. Is that what you do from day one? I say that we have not discussed this very seriously or very deeply at the moment. Rather, the debate has been about whether to do what employers and trade unions have proposed. They have proposed to pay from the second day onwards: employers undertake to pay from the second to the fifth day and thereafter, starting from the sixth day on, the sickness fund would pay. That's what we've been through. And certainly, as I said to Mr Island, these discussions will continue. Is that money from the reserve? Yes, I think the quickest solution is to do it from the reserve fund. But I think you can also consider this, let's say, mixed funding: some part of the sickness fund and some part of the reserve of the Government of the Republic. As you know, for the next four years, we have provided the Health Insurance Fund with an additional EUR 560 million to maintain scheduled treatment. And that is a very significant amount, especially in this economic crisis. I hope you agree with me on this. These discussions will indeed continue to find a possible solution. In 2009, when there was a crisis, this law was amended and so far it has worked. There was no such principle before, and now in spring there was a temporary solution. If we go back to this, it will require, for point one, a re-amendment of the law, but I think we can still talk about a temporary temporary one. The solution in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U51	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U52	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your answer. As far as workplace centres are concerned, I have relied on both the media and the statements of the Scientific Advisory Board. But what are we gonna do about whether they're in the family or in the workplace? The problem is, however, that there is no compensation mechanism today. There's a lot of good talk, but the first three days are still human, and the disease is spreading. This morning, the Social Democrats met with the Rescue Department. In addition to being in an upward phase, the crown virus itself has led to a number of other health problems. I'm not just talking about mental health here, but just a few examples. In studies conducted in the market, 8-11. It was pointed out that 69% of the population have experienced stress in 30 days and 159 people have left their lives in nine months of this year. Last year, in nine months, this figure was 12 fewer. There will be dark times, bad months, where stress and mental disorders are amplified, just as was written today in the Estonian Express story. Mental disorders are amplifying, it's still ahead. Perhaps you will talk with a few words to reassure the people of Estonia, who will certainly be watching this interesting format, as Question Time is also about what has been planned to do in the government, would not stop the admissions of specialist doctors. Well, I wouldn't like to remind you of this, of course, here your hands are short, as you said, that the draft amendment to the law on psychiatric assistance stands at the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. But it is people aged 15 to 24 who feel the greatest stress and those aged 25 to 34 who feel the greatest stress. What if you calm people down and tell them not to worry?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U53	Yes, thank you! I actually thank you for now giving me the opportunity to be more flexible in my response. And I'm starting with the fact that we had another meeting with the scientific council at government level last night because of the COVID-19. The Chairwoman of the Scientific Advisory Board, the woman of the year Professor Irja Lutsar showed us his schematics and slides. And my fellow officials who were present showed theirs, and it was clear how closed the various countries of the European Union are, what are the limits for internal events, foreign events, what is the degree of closure on the streets. We know today that there are many countries in the European Union where several large cities are completely closed at 9:00 a.m., movement on the streets is prohibited, even driving by car is prohibited. This is not the case in Estonia today. Estonia's position in the European Union is, if we talk statistically, such that we are others from behind, while in Europe we are third-fourths. But here, we can't be proud or proud. We must be very restrained, very balanced, of course, very humble in the sense that this increase in the figure can come very quickly. In Estonia, the angle of climb has actually been very steep over the last seven-eighth-one days. It is clear that we are in a very critical situation, and if we do not follow the rules, we will be in a crisis at some point. Now that mental health you're asking about. I find this very, very worrying. Spring data on people's mental health, as you said about children, have been very tragic in many cases. Today we have taken the view that school education will continue, contact training will continue. It's up to every school to decide that if the COVID gets in, what do they do about distance learning? In some respects, however, contact training continues. I call on Estonian schools to ensure that contact training is continued, if it is possible. In some places where there isn't, you can play classes in the sense that some classes stay at home, but in general I believe that contact learning in education must continue. Today it's up to the schools. That's one thing. The other thing is that these restrictions, which start again from the next Monday, are going back to the 2+2 rule in shopping malls, are very correct. We have made this, I would say, very strict recommendation today, this is the last limit of the recommendation that we wear a mask in public transport, wear a mask in a shopping centre, wear a mask in theatres, cinemas, concerts, etc. It's all we need to control the spread of the virus at all times as much as we can. I think this will also help with the same mental health issue. To the issue of the sick list, the sick days, which is a great concern in your heart, I understand, Mrs Helmen Küttt, we will definitely come back. There is no current decision on the solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U54	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! During the spring emergency, it was quite properly criticised that scheduled treatment had been discontinued. Today you have just said that additional funds have been allocated to the Health Insurance Fund and it seems that such a massive interruption of scheduled treatment will not be forthcoming. This is the first part of my question: will private health institutions now be involved in the fight with this so-called COVID in the autumn, which have a solid and clear place in Estonian health care? Will private health institutions also benefit from the funds allocated to the health insurance fund, based on general health care arrangements in Estonia? The second subject, which has been criticised, relates to clear messages for action. You have just mentioned that schools can decide how they operate. We have recently seen in Tallinn and elsewhere that the behaviour of schools can be very specific, not reflected in uniform logic. You also spoke about children's mental health. One factor that has put this under great pressure is distance learning. Maybe you shouldn't go into distance training with a very light hand. It seems that an understanding of the size of the risks and their behaviour is so different that it raises problems. Prime Minister, in the light of the information that has been shared with the public, and perhaps also in the light of the information that you own and we do not yet know today, are communication messages scheduled to be rearranged so that there can be no wall-to-wall behaviour, in which case the arguments appear to the public to be overreacting or vice versa?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U56	Dear Riigikogu, thank the people of Estonia also in the light of these questions! Tell our healthcare sector, thank you to the medical sector. I'm asking for it! I think that's what they both deserve. That you are constructively criticizing the government here, I understand. But the Estonian people, Estonian doctors, doctors, medicine have been very, very brave at the forefront of fighting this virus, as have domestic security personnel, police officers, border guards, rescue officers, defence allies who have really done a great job. I also want to say thanks to the Health Board. For being in a situation like this today, so much, well, I can't say that in a good but satisfactory situation, really thanks to these people. As far as the medical sector is concerned, yes, yesterday we decided to give the Health Insurance Fund 8 million more. This is mainly related to the additional costs of treating COVID-19 patients. This is not a matter of private health care. It's dealt with by the hospitals in our hospital network, and it's dealt with by an ambulance. Give the hospitals and the ambulance an extra $8 million, that's the decision we made. The Minister of Social Affairs has to submit a specific breakdown in the coming weeks, I hope that he will do so to the government next week, so that it can also be decided at government level. The second big decision we made yesterday was to allocate 4.8 million to PCR antigen tests until the end of this year so that the testing would not be interrupted so that the testing would continue. In fact, the test has become more massive. Now this concerns the education sector. It is true that we have agreed to keep scheduled treatments and schools open as long as possible. The fact that we're doing some small restrictions, closings, is just about getting planned treatment and keeping schools open so we don't have to go to distance training. We have been trying to consult on this at all times, to have a dialogue with local authorities as well. I know that the Ministry of Education and Research and personally Minister Mailis Reps is doing a very good job, is really doing a good job of this. But, of course, at the moment, it is the decision of schoolkeepers, school leaders, what steps they take in their school. Nor can we say that the planned treatment is currently in full. We can see that some hospitals have already raised two levels up because there is an emergency in healthcare. Hospitals have raised two levels and this means that part of the planned treatment will be interrupted. But, of course, what we want is that we don't close scheduled treatments and schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U57	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U58	Let's go to the next question. Question 6, by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, and he is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U59	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I'll continue on the Corona virus or the wave. Today, we have an incidence rate of 144 per 100000 people, and this situation is certainly a matter of constant debate in many families. There are a lot of questions, so I will say in advance that I will present them at several stages in order to be able to deal with everything in Question Time. The first question concerns risk groups. While the first wave of the virus was in spring, employers were primarily asked to apply teleworking to older people, to people at risk. This certainly also has a great deal to do with the education of schools and kindergartens. I have not noticed in the autumn that attention has been paid in any way to risk groups or that teleworking has been asked to be applied especially to risk groups. Could you elaborate on that? The other half of the question is about the vaccine. This week brought good and long-awaited news that a large pharmaceutical company called Pfizer hopes to start using the vaccine in the coming months, even in the coming weeks. Previously, Estonia has a preliminary agreement with AstraZeneca. The question is, will we be able to start using Pfizer's vaccine if it is authorised? How do I obtain a vaccine within the European Union? How is the distribution of the vaccine between the different Member States? Is this something central in the European Union? Does the size of the country play a role when the vaccine reaches us? And how will it be decided within Estonia which group of people has first access to the vaccine? This is probably a subject that many people are waiting for answers to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U60	Thank you. Now, if I understood the first question correctly, you were talking about risk groups. In any case, we are also working today to ensure that these most risky places, such as nursing homes, are not at risk. I think it was one of the first specific restrictions that the staff of nursing homes must wear masks. Secondly, we can see that visits to nursing homes have largely ended or stopped today. However, yesterday we said at government level that nursing homes must offer loved ones the opportunity to visit their loved ones both in contact and in contact. It has to be solved differently. I think it is important that this does not mean that people who are forced to be in nursing homes do not, in principle, see their loved ones. I don't think that's the right approach either. But of course, it's all much more limited. Now, when it comes to older people who work, in any case, as much as possible, they should work remotely. You should wear masks, you should be sure to disinfect your hands. We have made clear recommendations at government level that if we also go to a family member, for example, if we go to our mother, father or, if we do, grandpa's grandmother, we must, in any case, be guided by the fact that we do not take the disease there, so that we do not go to them with symptoms and wear personal protection. As far as I am concerned, there are only two manufacturers: AstraZeneca and Pfizer, as you mentioned. They have started a marketing authorisation application from the European Medicines Agency, but both are in fact still in the process of carrying out studies. So none of the COVID-19 vaccines are currently authorised in Europe. Secondly, there are seven major producers with whom the European Commission has negotiated on behalf of the Member States. Estonia has joined the pre-purchase agreement with two of them and should probably decide in the next week whether to join the third. On this third point, we can decide when the vaccine is actually ready. There is also a bidder who says that we can only decide when the vaccine is actually ready. Currently, Estonia has joined the order from two vaccine manufacturers, one is indeed AstraZeneca and the other is Johnson & Johnson. These are pre-purchase agreements for the purchase of COVID-19 vaccine. When both vaccines reach the market, I stress that when they reach the market, we can enable vaccination in Estonia to reach about 70% of the Estonian population. At the moment, these two contracts are the only ones and, according to polls, this is also the order of magnitude of how many people even want to vaccinate themselves. But once again, that's what happens when vaccines get to the market at all. We can't confirm that today. I think we can move on in this debate right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U61	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U62	Thank you. As the time was short to answer the previous question, I ask you if there is anything else you would like to clarify on the subject of vaccine, precisely on the issue of transnational distribution and the introduction of vaccines within Estonia. How does it work? Does this go through family doctors in case any of these vaccines are authorised? Is that known yet? My second question now concerns the business sector and companies whose activities are or are limited by this virus. The question in itself is quite specific: if there is a business sector that gets the hardest hit, which is subject to restrictions because of the virus, how will its impact on the activities of companies be compensated? It is understandable that, in the economic crisis, in the economic crisis caused by the virus, businesses are currently having a very difficult time. There's really some crazy work going on. And in the case of restrictions, answers are also awaited where to turn, which aid is provided to the State. After all, these are people who employ tens of thousands and who have so far managed to survive. This certainly concerns the catering and entertainment sectors in particular; they have been hit hardest. So, yes, the most important thing, perhaps, is how these restrictions are to support this sector, these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U63	Thank you. I would really like, if I may, to say two more words about vaccines. Yes, it can be said that the European Commission is at a very different stage of negotiations with pharmaceutical companies for the purchase of COVID-19 vaccine. There's more than one or two of these pharmaceutical companies. That's one. Secondly, as regards distribution, all the countries of the European Union participate in joint procurement on an equal footing and receive a vaccine according to the proportion of the population in the European Union. Let's say it's an opportunity. Each country must, as a rule, state how much it wishes to take advantage of this opportunity, how much or a small quantity is requested and does not decide to be excluded from any pre-purchase agreement. What is our priority? Our first priority is to vaccinate health and social workers, care home customers, other front line workers, chronically ill, of course the older part of the population. We can establish a real vaccination plan when we know who is indicated for the particular vaccine and for whom it is not. It can certainly happen that vaccines that come on the market first are not suitable. I remember Professor Irja Lutsar said at yesterday's press conference that when we talk about children, it might get longer because these tests and analyses are much longer for them and maybe they haven't started. More studies are definitely needed in different age groups. At the European Council level, we have agreed that when the vaccine comes, it does not matter how rich, how large the country is, but all 27 countries must have an equal opportunity. This has really been the subject of the last, I would say, four-to-five Councils... I'm sorry! Let's say three or four Councils are seriously on the table. Let's go, entrepreneurship. I consider it extremely important, dear Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, what you ask. What have we done? I agree that the catering sector, the HoReCa sector, the tourism sector has been hit hardest. That is what I said here on Monday, particularly in response to your questioning and the questioning of the members of the Social Democratic Party Group. We have now given another five million to tourism, there is a certain request for assistance from REACT-EU to the tourism sector. It's in the tourism sector. I named nursing homes before, I said we put on mask duty. We have decided, at government level, that in those nursing homes where the COVID-19 comes in, the government will allocate extra money to cover the labour costs as well as to masks. That's two. Thirdly, I am actually concerned about the construction sector and not today, but next months and next year. It is clear that private sector orders are starting to fall away, and now the government has done that it has actually asked you for permission to contribute most of the budget to implement these countercyclical investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U64	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In your answers, you briefly touched on the school arrangements. My question is, you could say, from the field, from the municipalities, and it concerns early childhood education, kindergartens. Yesterday, in fact, our proposal to the Government of the Republic to organise the work of Estonian basic and general education institutions on a uniform basis under the conditions of the COVID-19 virus was rejected in this Chamber. Our proposal was to give this common ground to the government. The answer was that these common bases exist, but I did not understand whether kindergartens and, for example, hobbies in schools and hobbies in kindergartens have been given any recommendations from the ministry. Should they not be done as a preventive measure? Should there still be an infection? Have you discussed these matters in the government? Is there a document on this, or is it planned to come? Those questions are in the air.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U66	Thank you. I believe all the documents you want from the Ministry of Education and Science you will get. You can ask them directly from them. When it comes to early childhood education, I really, first of all, think that this spring experience is a very good experience. That when schools went to distance school in the spring, kindergartens were actually kept open. And the reason was that a lot of people who have to work can't leave their children anywhere. There is no way to leave them with Grandpa and Grandma, leave them with another family's mother or father who is not working. As a result, kindergartens were kept open. Very many of our frontier workers, who work for the police or who work for the Defence League, the Defence Forces, hospitals and other medical institutions, also have small children who go to kindergarten. But, of course, the state needed them at the time and also needs them very much every day. And if kindergartens were closed, basically these people should stay home. I think it was the right decision. True, the real picture in the spring was this kind of thing, I say out of my head, that there were actually very few children in kindergartens at the top of the emergency situation, I think, even less than 10%. They left it to work, maybe a group, or how kindergartens did it themselves. Now, to talk a little bit more about the community education you've been asking about, different training rounds, it's really, uh, it's been on my desk the whole time. And I would say that it is well kept by the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas and the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps. It is in the sense that we do not go to close down this area. It wasn't until yesterday morning that we discussed this rule of 2 plus 2. It is clear that we certainly do not want to introduce this 2 + 2 rule in harsh form from Monday, 16 November, just as it was in spring. This would mean that, in principle, we would say in a blow that recreational activities, sporting activities, circles of interest, all of this would automatically end. After all, in many circles, children are more likely to be exposed. That's what we've been holding up until now, and we're going to keep it going, so really, we're going to keep going, we're going to do sports, we're going to keep going, we're going to keep going, we're going to keep going, we're going to keep going, we're going to keep going, we're going to keep going, we're going to keep going, we're going to keep going, we're going to keep going, we're going to keep This is also important from the aspic that Helmen Kütt asked about: mental health. It is important that children can communicate with their friends so that children can do manual activities, exercise. I think it's important, and that's what we're working to keep it that way. True, we do not know what the spread of the virus will be in the coming weeks, in the coming months. We are seeing the greatest increase in Europe. Estonia has, in principle, been able to keep its society very open. And I also say to you, Mr Võrguship, that there is a great deal of thanks to the people of Estonia, especially the people of Estonia, for their responsible behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U67	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U68	The question number 7 is posed by Heljo Pikhof and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U69	Thank you. Prime Minister! More than a year ago, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise Tanel Kiige addressed a letter of formal notice to bring the law on psychiatric assistance into line with the established situation. This is so that young people under the age of 18 can contact a psychiatrist if necessary without the consent of the parent. The Social Democrats themselves initiated an amendment to the law, with the content of it, as it did not come from the Ministry. At the end of January, the draft was in the Riigikogu at first reading, and then it disappeared into the table box of your party partner Tõnis Möldri, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Children's ombudsman, psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, and several experts in children's mental health have acknowledged that this legislative amendment is urgent and very much in the interest of young people. The Social Committee has been approached by 36 associations involved. But nothing! It is not moving forward from the Commission, and it can be said that the EKRE under the baton and Tõnis Möldri, I cannot tell you whether the inadequacy has not led to a solution to this issue for almost a year. Let's see how many teenagers have taken their own lives this year: they've been 19 years old. My question to you is: what are you doing to end the almost year of cynical game with the lives and health of young people? After all, the government has also approved the Social Democrats' draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U70	Thank you. First of all, Mr Mölder, Chairman of the Commission, you say, I do not know that he is somehow not doing well or doing the right thing. I would like to say that during this crisis, the entire Riigikogu, but it is clear that it is the Social Affairs Committee that has discussed these issues most in connection with COVID. I have the impression that Mr Mölder has taken these issues extremely seriously, tried to debate, to debate, to find solutions in the Committee on Social Affairs. I am attending the meetings of a group and I have to say that he has also been very active in discussions on these issues at the meetings of the Central Party Group. I certainly do not agree with the criticism of Mr Möldri. Now, this topic you have raised: psychological counselling, psychological advice, specifically for children who are in a difficult situation. In any case, I support the fact that changes should be made in a very balanced way. These changes have not actually been made in our country for more than 20 years. This time has been in place all along. But I think we're gonna have to figure out what this basic discussion is about. After all, the main discussion is about how many parents can even contribute to these issues. I think that this amendment, a fundamental change, is needed. I'm not gonna argue with that. But I think to do it so that we go completely to the other extreme, that I certainly do not support. Now, there is a need to find solutions to the issue of psychiatric assistance. Yes, I know that there are also those members of the Riigikogu that is not a secret, and not just one party, as you said about the EKRE, are those of other parties who say that the role of parent is extremely important, extremely important. It can't be like we're cutting out parents completely. But, of course, I think it's right that in certain cases a child can go directly to a psychiatrist for help. In certain cases, that must certainly be the case. And I think the problem may not be just in a particular family. Sometimes, sorry, it can also be a very serious mental health problem caused by close family contacts, a tragedy related to mental health. So the baby can go straight to the psychiatrist. So I think that there is certainly a need to continue discussions on this issue and to find a solution as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U71	Heljo Pikhof, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U72	Well, Prime Minister, I don't agree with you here. In fact, an early teen can go to any doctor today without parental consent. And the doctor appreciates whether or not the child is mature without an adult. In fact, not too much, but there are many young people who do not have support at home, who may have been raped or whose parent perhaps thinks that my child for God would not go to a psychiatrist, that domestic problems would come out, etc. The fact that it has not been possible to proceed with a draft in the Social Committee for almost a year and bring it to the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu is in any case an unfinished job for your party partner. Let me give you an example, which I once brought here to the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Tanel Kiige. I have been approached by three young people at the time, and there was only one young person who has been seeing a psychiatrist with an elder, and they have said that they are not going to say that they have attempted suicide or that they have come to mind. One of them has already left for today. Surely this young man would have received help. But I would like to ask: what are your motives that you cannot tell the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee that this bill urgently needs to be brought into the Chamber, that this problem needs to be resolved? Children should still be able to see a psychiatrist if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U73	Thank you. First of all, I fully agree that this concern, which you are pointing out, is extremely serious. Sexual abuse, rape cases, yes, I think these are cases where the child must definitely receive direct assistance if, for some reason, this possibility does not exist with the participation of parents. I'll tell you again, I think so. But this picture is definitely not black and white. That I do not think I can say that we automatically take parents out of this process in all cases. And I can't say we haven't done anything. When we look at existing services in the field of child welfare, most of them actually support children's mental health. We take these same services for abused and other children in need: the childcare service for sexually abused children, the kindergarten phone 116111, which, as far as I know, is open 24 hours seven days a week. Victim support services for victims of violence. Now on, parental support services: parental education "Incredible Years," parental portal and e-consultation centre Smart parent, disabled child support services, childcare services, support person services, social rehabilitation services, replacement care services as well as aftercare services for survivors. So there are a lot of services in this area. The same phone I told you before. We cannot say that there are no options today. Once again, I say that, as far as I am aware, based on 2019 statistics, more than 9,000 visits were made to the children's assistant's phone. Over 9,000 appeals! And the truth is, there were 4200 of them a little more than 4,000 times, and a little more than a few minutes ago, they were turning children. And once again, I fully agree with what Helmen Kütt said here that the number of children's mental health visits is on the upward trend. Those are complicated questions. I understand that it is easy for the opposition to make this criticism that the Prime Minister is guilty of the guilt of Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. I think it is, of course, your right, you have the right to criticise. However, I cannot agree in any way with the argument that the problem has not been addressed. I think we're actually coming up with some sort of solution, and that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U74	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U75	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I am asking about health care arrangements during the second wave of the Corona crisis, and I am asking in particular in the key to what is the situation with the supplies of medicines and the various supplies that medical institutions need on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. I am not talking so much about personal protective equipment, which was definitely a very acute problem in the spring, but what I understand is better today. But it's drug supplies and medical supplies. In such a situation, there would be no shortage of essential medicines or medical supplies on the territory of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U76	Thank you! A little bit more about the blame. Sorry, Mr. Sutt, I'm gonna jump to the last question. What do you say? I could say in return, how did Mrs Pikhof and the other Social Democrats wake up now? The Minister of the Social Democratic Party was responsible for the field of health in 2015/2019. So where were the solutions? I guess they tried to find solutions, but they're complicated. And not only political debates, but also the same problems concerning children, parents and psychiatrists. Now I come to your question, Mr Sutt. The stocks of medicines are primarily in the hands of wholesalers; we must take this into account; hospitals also have their own stocks. As far as I am aware, I have not been informed about this by either the Minister of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Social Affairs; we do not have any difficulties in delivering. And what is more important: the country will further increase the supply of medicines in 2021, with the support of European Union funds. On your desk there will be a state budget for next year, which will include a new stock agency, which will also have to deal with various stocks, including some of the stocks of medicines. So that's what I can tell you about the status quo. But, of course, we have to take this into account, you said that personal protective equipment is not so much the subject of your question, that, in fact, in the spring, it got very complicated very quickly. And at one point it is not at all excluded that it will not get very complicated again in any other areas. That's the supply chains! We just made a decision in the government a while ago. Weeks ago, perhaps two weeks ago, we had a senior Professor Peep Talving at the North Estonian Regional Hospital to talk about what was going on with different medicines, much wider than only in PERH. After his presentation, we decided that we would once again support the joint procurement by the European Union to obtain Remdesivir medicine for Estonia. To this end, more than EUR 310000 has been allocated from the Government's reserve fund. So we've been pretty operational. True, we believe that these doses are needed more, but I am glad that they found support. So, yeah, we keep trying to track the supplies. Jaak Aab, the Minister of Public Administration sitting next to me, has done an excellent job with the Estonian External Action Service, various embassies and ambassadors to obtain personal protective equipment. And we're better off than we were in the spring. So I think that very, very, very important steps have been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U77	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U78	We have come to Question 8 in order. It will be presented by Jürgen Ligi and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U79	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! Mart and Martin Helme have already said several times in different channels that the Estonian elections were counterfeit and the winner was not who it was officially. They, including Martin Helme, have said the same thing about the US elections. Words have sounded like there is no doubt, it was a blatant and massive violation of the right to vote. You've been answering questions for the third day why Martin Helme will continue in the government by Mart Helme taking responsibility. And we're clear. That's not true. Mart Helme made a press conference and said he was sick of it, but he's done nothing wrong. Martin Helme has now been able to speak several times, and in this Chamber of the Riigikogu he said, as an introduction to the debate on the motion of censure, that it was all artificial, fictional and cynical. He called the opposition a fortress of evil and so on. My question to you is: why has Martin Helme behaved better, and why does he continue in the government? I don't think it's enough that the party chairman sacrificed his own father when his own sin really is bigger.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U80	Thank you for this question. Yes, I have really answered those questions, but that doesn't mean I don't want to keep answering. Of course I would if you asked. First of all, point one: relations between Estonia and the United States are really very important to us. These are strategic relations, they have been, they are today and will continue to be. The United States is our main strategic partner. We also have strong relations with the United States through NATO activities, and we have seen that these good contacts with the United States have intensified in other areas in recent years, too, not only in the security and defence policy, where they are iron-proof, but also in other areas that have increased. For example, the initiative of the three seas, which has really been a very interesting and important form of cooperation also this year, when Estonia has been holding the Presidency title there. I understand that you do not agree that political responsibility has actually been taken on this issue. You're saying it doesn't matter that the Minister of the Interior has resigned. I understand it would be your wish that we now start quoting, as I have already said, this infamous radio show, what one or the other said. Well, I guess Riigikogu Question Time doesn't have to be listening to a radio show. I understand that your wish, Mr. Ligi, is that you are an experienced politician, I understand very well that the government will fall. This could be a place where the government can be mistrusted, carried out. I say that I very much respect all members of the Riigikogu, but at the same time a good member of the Riigikogu, Mr Ossinovski, has said that this mistrust of Martin Helme is not credible. It's not seriously just that's his sentence. And I must agree with Mr Ossinovski that it has actually become a political game. But clearly, you said your position, I said my position on this matter. The Minister of the Interior took political responsibility. And then it all happened very quickly, didn't it? Going back to the computer, put two letters behind that first name, 'i' and 'n' was put in the back, Mardi became Martin, and mistrust went to work. It was, I think, already political gambling. Now, the position of the Estonian government in communication with the United States. I think there has never been such an active, principled definition of government positions in the last year, let's say, a year. 8 August 2019, 6 August 2020, 5 November 2020 was endorsed by the various memoranda on relations with the US, which show how important these strategic relations really are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U81	Thank you. And I would now like to ask a very brief question from Jürgen Near and also a brief answer from the Prime Minister. Time's starting to push.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U82	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! I didn't ask about the United States, I didn't ask about the radio show, I asked about Martin Helme, about his views on the various channels he said. I didn't mention a radio show at all. And what he's said is that this scandal is fictional, it's empty. He has said that this is what he said in the Riigikogu, not on a radio broadcast anywhere, and that he has resigned because there is more truth to be told. This is not a sign of any political responsibility. He has said that the US elections are a massive and blatant violation of the fact that democracy does not exist in the United States if this result succeeds. And when you read the New News, I suggest you have extracts made of it, its articles make it clear that what is happening in the United States must be countered internationally and violently. This party is led by Martin Helme. Please tell me what the difference is. Please answer my question, do not talk about radio programmes or U.S. relations, but about how Martin Helme behaves better and how his views differ from those of Mart Helme when he protects and pours oil only on the issue of the integrity of the elections in Estonia and in the U.S.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U83	Thank you. Yes, I agree that this is a very important and fundamental question of whether the elections are fair both in Estonia and in the US. My point of view: yes, it is. I have also asked Mr Helme whether the US is, in his opinion, a democratic rule of law, although there are many different disputes there at the moment. That's the fact that it is. He has said: of course, the US is a democratic rule of law. So... And I think that is a very important and very fundamental position. Now, onward, you're saying that... I didn't even know the quote you said that Mart Helme said that the members of the Riigikogu were somehow more free or so. I think that a member of the Riigikogu is, of course, free to speak. That's a fact. Is there something else you want to say? You're asking me to watch these New News. I'm not really a follower of this portal or these news like you must be. Honestly, I'm not. I urge you to follow the National Broadcasting Portal. I think it's a very good portal, good shows, good radio news. If we call on each other here to monitor, I call on you to monitor the national broadcasting. What else can I say? In my opinion, that really is the fundamental question that, if someone has acted like this, he takes political responsibility. The Minister of the Interior took political responsibility on this issue. For me, the fundamental question was whether we are saying about our ally that he is a democratic rule of law. I asked the Minister of Finance, he said yes, the United States is definitely our important partner. But I'm sorry for the crap that was said on this show, I'm not signing it, I'm totally rejecting it, and I did it on social media. What I am now sorry for, however, is really very interesting and serious issues have not been addressed today. I really apologise to the President of the Riigikogu and the members of the Riigikogu, but there is nothing to do. However, these were also important questions that Riina Sikkut, Aivar Sõerd, Annely Akkermann and Urve Tiidus wanted to put forward. All very important questions, but unfortunately today there is a lack of time to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U84	Thank you. Indeed, if you look at the clock, you might be able to read one more question, but unfortunately there is no time to answer. I thank all my colleagues. I thank the members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you each time that the plenary session of the Riigikogu starts at 14:00 and before that we must invite all colleagues who are not present in the Chamber with a call sign. So thank you! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U85	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the seventh working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U86	70 members of the Riigikogu registered, missing 31. Attention: specification of the agenda. On the proposal of the Bureau, the order of the second and third items on the agenda has been changed so that Auditor General Janar Holm will first review the year and then the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu will take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U87	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law 259 on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of other laws. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U88	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of the second reading of the draft Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the amendment of other laws, in other words the draft law on the transformation of the Financial Intelligence Unit into a government agency, was discussed by the Monetary Commission on 4 and 9 November and 27 October. At its meeting on 27 October, the Commission took procedural decisions. At its meeting on 4 November, the amendments were tabled and the opinion received by the Committee on Legal Affairs was reviewed at the meeting on 9 November. The commission of directors made one amendment to the draft, which was included in the list of amendments. The proposal is technical and concerns the comprehensive replacement of the name of the FIU in the AML/CFT Act and other laws. The opinion issued by the Committee on Legal Affairs states that the Committee on Legal Affairs does not have any additions or comments to the draft. The Committee on Finance took the following consensual decisions: to propose a draft to be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 November, to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is closed, to propose a third reading on 12 November and a decision to be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U89	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U90	I understand this is a technical dump that has not been repaired in time. Apart from this technical failure, how do you feel: would it still be more appropriate to discuss once again that money laundering investigations, money laundering investigations, are still under the authority of the Police and Border Guard Board, rather than under the authority of the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U91	Thank you. Such a question did not arise during the discussion of this draft, and the Finance Committee and the Riigikogu have now decided that the task of preventing money laundering and terrorist financing will be handed over to the Money Laundering Data Bureau under the Ministry of Finance, i.e. this office will be transformed into a government agency with the Ministry of Finance instead of a PPP institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U92	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. One amendment to the draft has been tabled. This amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is: take full account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 259. Second reading closed and today's first item under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U93	Let's keep going. Today's second item is an overview of the use and management of state assets in 2019/20. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: As rapporteur, I would like to ask Auditor General Janar Holm.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U94	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The next item is the draft by which the Riigikogu will obviously approve the country's consolidated report for the previous financial year. And when the Minister of Finance tells you that the country's accounting records are in order, he'll tell the truth. I can confirm that in advance. However, first of all, I would like to talk about people's documents, not about national accounts. All the more so since the meaning of these accounts and the link with real life have become increasingly blurred year after year. And this is despite the fact that the world of reports has contributed to an enormous amount of working hours. Last year, the topic of our annual report was the health and vitality of Estonia's e-governance. At that time, it had to be said that this life force was slowly declining. Estonia is sinking into the middle of several e-state indicators. This time, the focus is on the health and vitality of the services that are essential to people, which are also beginning to decline. We have seen what lies ahead for us in the next ten years. Who will treat us in Estonia in the near future, who will teach us and who will keep order and save us? Do we have enough family doctors, policemen, rescuers, teachers now and in the future? You can ask me what's new here. It's been said. The overall trends have indeed been known. But the National Audit Office now brought these priority groups to a single picture in the annual report, and on the other hand gave them a regional view, which, in our opinion, has remained a little backwards in the public discussions so far. It is not very sensible to talk about priority services on the ground using national indicators. People are not treated by an average Estonian family doctor, but by a doctor who works with a specific list in a particular county. And the fire will not be extinguished by the average savior, but by the rescue worker in a particular Estonian regional command. The regional view provides a meaningful overview of whether priority services are actually available or not. Technology and technology cannot fully or sufficiently replace primary service providers; they must be physically present. These are real - life problems that affect us all, but dealing with what does not give rise to excitement like any other subject. So what did we find? To sum up, we have reached a time in Estonia where we should honestly admit to the people: the provision of public services of uniform quality throughout the country is too much for us. It is long overdue to ensure uniform access, and this is due not only to money but also to clearly lack of people. The number of unfulfilled posts in key professions is increasing; people who could fill these jobs do not seem to be coming from anywhere. Despite this reality, in countless approved or dealt with strategy papers, it is consistently and rigorously declared that public services will continue to be of uniform quality and are available regardless of their place of residence. However, such a long-standing vision does not bring the necessary restructuring and innovative solutions closer. Good listeners! They say one picture speaks more than a thousand words a few times. If you have our report at hand, the result of our work will be described most in detail in the figure on the third page of the report, where we have highlighted the proportion of family doctors, teachers, police officers and rescuers who will be able to retire in the next five to ten years or who are already in retirement age. The more retired or retired, the darker the card. Darker areas are especially outside Harjumaa and Tartumaa. But there will soon be no reason to cry out in these regions either. As an islander, my eyes can see and my mouth is ready to admit that the future of Hiiumaa is dark. Next year's International Fun Day April 1st is the day when all the family doctors in Hiiumaa have reached retirement age. But it's far from funny. The right to retire or its approach also affects nearly half of Hiiumaa's teachers, policemen and rescuers. The same is true for family doctors, teachers and police officers in Läänemaa. In Lääne-Virumaa, Võrumaa and Jõgeva County, there are already pension rights or two thirds of family doctors will reach them in five to ten years. Such a list could be continued. Family doctors, teachers, police officers and rescuers who perform their work outside Tallinn and Tartu should be included in the red book as a representative of endangered species. But the problem isn't a big deal for older people. My deep respect for those who have found and will continue to find their will and strength to continue working. This is about the low number of young professionals and the lack of succeeding. Family doctors and teachers, aged 65 and over with experience, will be able to offer their skills on the labour market for years to come. However, the occupational pension rights of policemen and rescuers may arrive earlier in their 50s if certain conditions are met. The question is what happens if they actually decide to exercise their pension rights or at least give up working at the forefront. Are young people ready and willing to do this work? This requires that young people like work as family doctors, teachers, police officers, or rescuers. They should be suited to working conditions, wages and the working environment. But they must also be suited to the city or municipality where the job is available. As a rule, there are vacant places outside Tallinn or Tartu or their immediate surroundings. However, in the most problematic of the areas covered, i.e. in the field of family medical care, graduates of general medical training lasting ten years often do not want to work elsewhere than in Tallinn, Tartu or Ida-Virumaa. This is in a situation where, especially outside Harjumaa and Tartumaa, the number of family doctors who can retire is far more than the number of candidates who could fill these vacancies. Half of Estonian family doctors are 60 years of age or older; only 20% are under 50 years of age. It is increasingly difficult to find new doctors for the lists. The number of loose competitions has increased fourfold over the last five years. Last year, 38 out of 51 competitions failed. Family doctor is hard to find even in county centres. A temporary family doctor has become an increasingly permanent phenomenon in family medical care. Thus, a total of 60,000 patients have had a replacement physician, and on three lists this temporary replacement physician has been available for seven years. For example, in Lääne-Virumaa, a whole quarter of all lists have a temporary replacement. Now the teachers. The good news is that the teaching profession has gained popularity and more and more young people want to go to school as teachers. The bad news is that in the year following teacher training, nearly two thirds of graduates go to work as a school teacher, with more than half of these teachers leaving school five years later. People burn out and do not want to be under endless pressure from many sides. If there is not a significant increase in new teachers at a younger age in ten years, the current teachers will reach a retirement age of 36% and, five years later, already half of all teachers. There is a huge shortage of teachers, especially teachers of science and science. Over the next ten years, the number of students will increase in higher school levels, with a higher proportion of courses, and the need for teachers of natural sciences and exact sciences will even increase. On the other hand, class teachers are still on the table, and the ten - year view leaves them with a decreasing number of students. But unfortunately, not necessarily where there is a shortage of schoolteachers and where they would be able to change to a teacher without changing their place of residence. There are more or less sufficient numbers of police officers, but there are no rescuers at all. However, in five or ten years' time, both of them will have a sharp shortage because, first, there will be a rise in the retirement of police officers and rescuers, and, second, there will be too few people who would like to do this work in places where posts have not been filled. Of course, our own conduct also depends on the workload of police and rescuers. 15 years ago, the National Audit Office stated that we do not have too few rescuers, but that we have too many fires compared to other countries. Dear listeners, The population is ageing, the proportion of young people is decreasing, and not even a few of these young people have primary services. Responsible ministries and other bodies have implemented different techniques to make vacant posts more attractive and to increase secondary growth. Competition, however, applies to the same people and other areas of life that are trained and skilled. People simply do not exist and it is not possible to continue to provide priority services in the same way. Primary services providers The Health Board, the Rescue Board, the Police and Border Guard Board must, however, be recognised. They have tried problems with temporary exceptional measures, flag flag and patch on the cloth, emergency relief either within their own authority or within the field. This is one of the main reasons why the problems have not yet exceeded the human tolerance threshold. However, the need for tight and temporary measures will make the whole system more bureaucratic and costly. For example, the conclusion of temporary contracts with replacement doctors may be an appropriate solution for a short period of time, but in the long term it is burdensome, and most importantly: there will be no necessary stability. For example, last week the Ministry of Social Affairs sent a draft Health Services Management Act to the coordination circle, which aims to improve the availability of family medical care and the continuity of service of lists. This is certainly a necessary draft to respond in any way to the problems that have arisen, and it certainly deserves support as such. However, when presenting the draft, it has been stressed that the solution proposed in several drafts is a temporary measure necessary to serve those who are on the list of family doctors. For example, temporary service of the list will be granted to the hospital. But the hospital also needs family doctors and nurses. The new and proud house itself, unfortunately, doesn't cure anyone. Are such solutions really temporary? Where are the permanent solutions coming from, and what are the situations where the necessary number of new family doctors cannot be expected to be added to the system? The number of temporary solutions is increasing and increasing. It would be right to tell people honestly that family medical care is changing in the near future and that there is nothing extreme about receiving family medical care in a county hospital, for example, as this bill might come out. This will be a new, inevitable normality for many regions as an option in the future. The time has come to rethink the nature of the family medical system. Further trends in the population and labour force are relatively well known and clearly show that breakthroughs in the provision of primary services are indispensable. So we need to adapt to reality, not engage in self-deception. If we set realistic requirements for the quality and availability of priority services, a number of forms of service that we consider to be exceptional or temporary must be made permanent in some regions. For example, it becomes a day-to-day situation where the city's physics class is transferred to a rural small school or family doctor provides advice via a video bridge. Therefore, innovations offered by technological and social innovation should also be introduced in order to reduce labour needs. Volunteers must, of course, also be implemented where possible. More and more rescue and law enforcement are likely to be on their shoulders. At the same time, we are unlikely to imagine a primary health system built up for family doctors. The main thing to remember is that the same person can be a defence ally, an auxiliary police officer, a volunteer rescuer at the same time, and at other times sit at the wheel of an ambulance. However, the resources of these volunteers are not unlimited, and a full view of this must be created. The lack of a comprehensive picture also showed one of our audits two years ago, where we found that, for example, one member of the Defence League had at the same time been listed in four other volunteer positions in organisations that would all like to help him with the crisis, with his main job being defence-related and that would rule out other activities. Thus, a large number of other organisations claim and take account of the same people. Here I take this opportunity to welcome all members of the Defence League who form Estonia's largest national defence volunteer organisation. The Defence League is celebrating its 102nd anniversary today. The importance of the support and contribution of the Defence League, women's homeguards and other volunteers, we saw well during the spring emergency. But to sum up the subject. It is important that the move to the new normality that awaits us be guided by ensuring that all people have access to essential public services at an agreed level, not by chance, rather than by some people losing even essential services. All of this should also be seen as an opportunity, not just as a problem. Estonia itself is not uniform, but letters in terms of needs, opportunities and problems. Different needs require different solutions, and the necessary minimum service criteria must be discussed and agreed again publicly. I therefore stress once again: people's spirit must inevitably be prepared for change. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll come back to finance and accounting. As I said, I can confirm the imminent words of the Minister of Finance that last year's annual accounts are correct in the essential part of the opinion of the National Audit Office, i.e. correctly and fairly reflects the state's financial position, economic performance and cash flow. According to the National Audit Office, the state's economic transactions have also been carried out in a substantial part in accordance with the State Budget Act and the National Budget Act of 2019. At this point, however, it cannot be overlooked that it would also be quite difficult for budget users to carry out economic transactions which do not comply with the annual state budget law. This would require a particular outstanding effort from the infringer, or even a pilgrimage, as the annual state budget law has reached a level of generalisation, which makes this violation quite impossible in addition to an understanding of the state budget. That is why I am already quite sure here that, for this reason, in two years' time, I will be able to assure you that all economic transactions carried out in 2021 will be in accordance with the National Budget Act 2021 currently being processed with you. The law's explanatory statement cannot be violated in the legal sense. Only legal requirements or restrictions can be violated. But more and more often, when we carry out our audits, we are struggling to find out the purpose and purpose of allocating funds from the explanatory memorandum. The explanatory memorandum is prepared by the government, but when using money, it does not always adhere to the goals set for it. This is what happened in the additional budget this year with the money allocated to the Rural Development Foundation for the rapid mitigation of the effects of the crisis, which was actually largely used for long-term investment loans. Now, the second wave of crisis is running out of money. It would be reasonable to agree in the Riigikogu what information the explanatory memorandum must contain and what is the meaning of this information. In the coming years, we also want to break the magic of this mystical budget explanatory memorandum and to examine in more detail whether the explanatory memorandum actually explains the budget and whether the actual use of money is in line with what is permitted in the explanatory memorandum. And I can say in advance that the National Audit Office does not think that there should be more information. Quite the opposite. But there should be important and understandable information about what the Riigikogu has decided to make the public understand what money is going for. I wouldn't dwell on the annual report for a longer time, because the 'best before' of this report is over. I am thinking, in particular, of the parts of the report relating to the implementation of the state budget. More than ten months after the end of the financial year and in a situation where the government has presented the next budget to the Riigikogu, it is difficult to use the information about the implementation of the state budget for the previous year in a constructive manner. I would rather and more meaningfully be able to talk to you here about the implementation of the state budget in the spring months, if at least in some way it could be useful for the preparation of a new state budget. Although it's not quite certain. Countries where debates on the implementation of the state budget are held in the spring are also among our neighbours. As an e-state, we should not be in trouble with this in any way if there is a will. And today, in fact, the financial picture of the state could be fixed electronically at any given time. This would make such a festive annual report an increasingly questionable matter of production. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The end of 2020 and the beginning of 2021 are the time for which we say, looking back in 2025, 2030 or even 2050, that this was the moment when decisions were made that largely determined our future choices. In the near future, funding choices need to be made in terms of volume, to which there is no match in the past, certainly not in the visible near future. They concern support for the European Union Structural Funds, the financing for the relaunch of the economy and the loan, the Fair Transition Fund and the proposal for climate and energy policy measures on the use of the CO2 quota revenue and the Modernisation Fund. We are in a moment where we have more than EUR 10 billion in stimulus, plus our credit facilities, which are capable of making very meaningful reforms, decisions with very high impact. This is not only an opportunity, it is primarily a responsibility. A great deal of additional money does not automatically mean a golden future, but, in the event of unreasonable use, the chaos of a unique opportunity or, in the worst case, even a decline in comparison with other countries. It is important that the Riigikogu is a strong leader in making such weighty decisions, ensuring a meaningful public debate and understanding of choices. I look forward to these discussions. The use of referred foreign money also receives a dignified place in the work plan of the National Audit Office and not only its use, but also its planning. We have set the goal that next year I can give an overview here in the Riigikogu Hall of how the use of this money is planned and how it has been used to exit the corona crisis and to transform the Estonian economy into a green, digital and durable one. I wish you strong health and thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U95	Thank you, Reverend Auditor General. You have questions too. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U96	Thank you. Thank you very much for your good presentation. I fully agree with you that the state budget has become more opaque from year to year and we have finally become less and less informative, so I am afraid that we will soon see only two lines: revenue and expenditure. But that's it. We have also submitted a draft to the Riigikogu, which the government does not want to support at all because it has unfortunately been submitted to the opposition. But I ask you, has the government spoken about what they think needs to be changed, or are they willing to make a difference? I do not mean so much the explanatory statement, but precisely the budget itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U97	Thank you for your question. We have examined the draft that has been submitted here. Among other things, there was a proposal to increase reporting to the spring I was just talking about. And I know that the government is planning a similar bill. What exactly is going to be in this government bill, I'm afraid I can't tell you. Cooperation with the working group led by Mr Ernitsa was well established last spring; unfortunately, the corona crisis came in. We too have actually prepared some thoughts on what changes might be made. We have been holding back at the moment because the National Audit Office, as an independent body, does not want to offer political competition in a dispute between parties. We will wait for the government's proposal and, as agreed, we will also present our proposals. But to answer the question of what the government is up to, I'm afraid I don't know exactly what to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U98	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U99	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, Your presentation has given great attention to the regional dimension of providing high-quality public services in the future. We all know that those who dare to look at facts, even if these facts are not very happy, will win those who do not create illusions. In this sense, analysis is useful and a great helper for politicians. We know that technology has come to help alleviate the drought of teachers and doctors; there are many trainers on the Internet. However, since you are taking stock of the use of last year's budget, I would ask you this comment: is there any way in this state budget to mitigate, cheer up the forecast for the future that you have described? Can such a comment be asked of you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U100	Thank you. There are certainly lines in the state budget that clearly concern the family medical system, rescuers and law enforcement. The question is what we are raising in our analysis: whether these solutions will be systemic or not. The draft state budget anyway, but also the explanatory memorandum does not exactly give an idea of why this money is being used. But to say that there is no money at all for these areas, there is certainly no money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U101	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U102	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! You have proposed the introduction of e-solutions as a solution to the labour problems identified in your report. I am asking: why is it that, after all, this introduction of e-solutions is so uneven across ministries and other institutions? Let me give you an example. The e-Tax Board was established 20 years ago. I was happy to be there when it was done. Why is it uneven? Is there a problem with management and coordination? We have an IT minister, but I don't know what he's doing. And these ministers have also changed for us. Let me give you another example. The Minister of Finance told us on Sunday that e-elections have been forged in Estonia. On Monday he was in front of the Riigikogu and said that the Minister of Information Technology was going to check the e-election system for why there had been counterfeiting. Imagine: the Minister is being put in charge of political delusions instead of coordinating the IT field! Is there a problem with this uneven development, poor coordination?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U103	Thank you. Thank you for your question. I would point out that our solution was not just e-solutions. This is one of the options to which we refer, which should be implemented where possible. It's not always possible, it doesn't turn off the lights digitally, and it doesn't keep order digitally. But in those places where digital solutions can be used, it has to be done. It's just that there's a lot more of these possibilities. The main message is, in fact, that we need to find solutions in a much more diverse spectrum, including e-services. With regard to e-services, digital services or the use of e-government facilities in the provision of these services, there are no direct obstacles here. Telemedicine is already being applied when we think about Kihnu. It is also possible to transfer school physics class to a smaller school. These opportunities are certainly not closed in the e-government. I therefore believe that there are no obstacles. When it comes to e-state, there's one thing you can think about. You referred to the digitalised tax administration Now we could look at the other side: how we would digitise towards spending, how to make the budget more digital, how to get a much clearer view. I don't think I'm gonna hurt to say that compared to the possibilities, we're doing the state budget, and we're still doing the report at the end of our knees.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U104	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U105	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, thank you very much for your excellent presentation. I think what we heard here today was a picture of an important area, as well as a risk map and a projection. Demography actually looks back on the same in all other areas, and the longer it takes to ignore this problem, the harder it gets. This is a photograph I would have liked to have seen in the draft state budget. Of course there isn't such a picture. There is no problem mapping, no view of how to move forward, what to do. I think that the budget is, in fact, a kind of reflection of what the objectives are. If the budget is insane, then the objectives are confusing. And here's my question: how much effort and time does it take for these major problems and their solutions to be recorded and taken up?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U106	Thank you for your question. I think the first step is that we say that we have reached a situation where the solutions to date no longer work, we need to rethink how services are provided. We must say clearly that the solutions proposed in this draft, for example from the Ministry of Social Affairs, are not temporary and extreme, as has been said here, but are inevitable. And now there's a question of how we're gonna organize it systemically. I don't think it takes too much time to do what you want. But there's one thing I want to do. The content of my message was certainly not that none of these ministries has ever done anything for these areas. Yes, it is. A lot has actually been done. It's done at the Ministry of Social Affairs, it's done at the Ministry of the Interior, it's done at the Ministry of Education. The question is, it's a little bit of patching. In fact, the patient as a whole should be taken care of and seen where the health problem is, not the symptom, and the patient should be dealt with systematically. And if there's a will, I think it's going to work relatively quickly. It's not easy, of course. It is easy to say from the National Audit Office about a lot of things that you need to clean up. That's the tricky part. But this is actually the area, these are the people ♪ the doctor, the teacher, the savior, the police officer ♪ ♪ thanks to whom every person in Estonia feels that the state is present. And if they are not present, I think that communication with the country will be lost. So in this sense, it is, in many respects, a security issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U107	Peter Ernits, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U108	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your excellent report. I have to admit, there's always pure gold coming from your house. But you're talking about all kinds of new technologies, and so on, poor prospects can only embellish, but there is no stable solution. But I'm asking you about your question. You said that if public services are taken only as an expense, the idea may be to cut down, but if you take them as an investment, it will force us to ask what areas we should put our resources into in order to make the most dividends as a society. I think this is a very important question, but I would like an answer. Why don't you expand a little? It's like the solution to all the troubles you're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U109	Let me get this straight. You're asking where to invest?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U111	The four must be invested in them. We have given four areas as an example in our report. We could talk about social protection issues and anything else that affects people's daily lives. We could talk not only about family medical care, because medical care is wider than hospitals and everything else. The National Audit Office cannot tell where to invest. The National Audit Office can point out that these are areas where we believe that people's needs and real offer are starting to move away from each other. And precisely: solving them is not a cost, but a solution to them is an investment in making our country strong. This is actually a real state reform. When we talk about state reform, these are real-life problems that we help people solve. The country is there when a person needs the country most, and these are the areas where investment is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U112	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U113	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, The section on teachers of the survey, paragraph 79, concludes with a summary: access to top-level general education is at risk. I add here the fact that Estonia has a parallel education system in Estonian and Russian, which does not guarantee equal opportunities for young people in further stages of education, the labour market and other areas of life. At meetings with the representatives of the faculty, proposals have been made to include primary schools in the Ministry's administration in addition to state secondary schools in order not to continue spending taxpayers' money without the objective of a uniform Estonian-language education. Do you support this idea, as well as the proposal from universities, that a national programme with the necessary action plan and funding is needed for teachers to grow further?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U114	I will start with the last one: that a national programme is needed. We have a lot of papers. Many papers have been written in which the objectives are very clearly stated. I think it is now necessary to take the next step from the papers and to tackle this problem. If the program is helpful, please, but the force often subsides after the document has been completed. The focus could be on what follows, perhaps, in its implementation. The future of Estonian education is at risk. Above all, when we said this, we had in mind what I also referred to in my speech: if young people do not come to school to a significant extent, in ten years' time, half the teachers will be of retirement age. Our famous PISA success is based on our many very good long-time teachers, but at one point they just can't do it anymore. They don't want any more, and they're leaving. This concerns both Estonian and Russian schools. The question is that, be it one or two of these school systems, it is important that they have teachers who can keep Estonia in education.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U115	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, You very nicely pointed out in your presentation the problem areas, from education and medicine to rescuers. But my question is, what are you proposing to the Government of the Republic to develop laws and regulations?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U117	Thank you. The Act of the National Audit Office makes it clear that the National Audit Office cannot interfere with the debate on political objectives. What we can do is point to problems in the way we do it here. Of course, we have an overview of which legislation is in the process. The Auditor General, like the Chancellor of Justice, has the right to participate in government meetings and there are certainly ways in which we give feedback to ministries and also to government meetings. But we do not intervene directly in the drafting of the drafts, we do not participate in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U118	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, thank you for your report and report. I'm asking about Raplamaa and Harjumaa police. The report also states that a regional fee has been imposed on police officers in Harjumaa. This, to be honest, has put Raplamaa in a bit of a bad position, because while doing the same work and working from the same distance, it earns 200 euros in Harjumaa, or on average 12% more. This raises the question of why even some of Harjumaa's periphery is preferable to the Raplamaa rural municipalities. Is that fair to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U120	Thank you for your question. If you look at the map of police officers and rescuers on page 3 and compare Harjumaa and Raplamaa, you can actually see that Raplamaa is much more beautiful in terms of the future, both in terms of rescuers and police officers. Looks like the kids are gonna be there. I imagine that the aim of this measure is to bring young people with extra money to work, in your example, in Harjumaa. And it seems that this way is certainly a fairer approach than paying extra money the other way around. After all, Rapla is practically near Tallinn; it is even closer than the end of East Harjumaa. If there is a question, why do you want to draw this line? I think it is based on the fact that there is a problem in Harjumaa with both rescuers and police officers. In itself, looking at this map, it seems that the measure is rather in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U121	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U122	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! I have had the honour and opportunity to listen to the various reports of the National Audit Office, various observations, overviews of and dispute or agree with the various inspections. I am well aware that the National Audit Office has the opportunity to tell ministers how it thinks things should be in one sector or another, or at least what could be changed. Coming to the state budget now, I actually have a direct question for you. I agree with this one hundred percent, which you said: that the state budget has become more laconical from year to year, and the explanatory statement is indeed not by law. Would it be conceivable that before you come before us next time, the National Audit Office will go to the Minister of Finance with a control report or a list of recommendations on how to make a normal state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U123	Thank you for your question. I also referred in my speech to the fact that we already have, as they say in 'Little Hänna', some things ready. And we're definitely ready to transmit it. We are now in a situation where a bill and a draft coming from the government has been initiated in the Riigikogu. Surely we are proposing our proposals for this debate. The second issue is what I referred to at the end of my speech, and in the next year, I would like to tell you precisely on this subject. Of course, these proposals will go before the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U124	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It says quite cruel sentences that there are problems with access to services everywhere, except for Harju and Tartumaa. Although it is basically about doctors, rescuers and teachers, it is basically about our population problem, which concerns the whole workforce. We can't really take them out separately. My question to you is this. If you look at this population tree and you think about our state budget, which has been said that we are literally going north with the current policy, or worse than Greece. And if we also restrict the use of additional labour, in what way will it be possible to provide these services reasonably to our population in the future if the number of taxpayers is reduced at almost the same rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U126	That was actually our message: it is not in the form that we have been able to do so. When we initially focused on only four areas, as we provided, these are the essential services through which we perceive that the citizen, whether he or she lives in Võru County or Hiiumaa, knows the presence of the state and is helped to solve its problems. Soon we will have an audit on support specialists: yes, there are no people. We will look at the analysis of the Chamber of Commerce on which people are needed in the labour market. We can see that if we add up all this extra need, we will get a bigger Estonia than we have. Of course, people are missing. And the message of our report is that it is no longer about money. It is not a question of what to add next year. There's just no people next year. You'll be studying for ten years as a family doctor. Five years of teaching, a little less time to save. But why? It's just that it's all taking time, and it's not about money anymore, it's about people. That is why we must honestly say that these services will be provided in a slightly different way in the future, perhaps further away from home. But it's transport. There may be other ways of doing things, but people have to have support. The issue is the lack of people, it is a demographic issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U127	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your interesting and thorough presentation. I heard you say that 10 billion will be available to Estonia for development aid from various funds in the coming years. And you were talking about planning. I was in contact with the planning and development plans in 2012, when they were made all summer. They were in force in 2014‐2020. And now, with the preparation of the presentation for hydrogen day, I began to examine whether the word 'hydrogen' appears in Estonia's strategic documents. I discovered that there are hardly any strategic development documents in Estonia. There are 46 strategic documents on the respective page of the State Chancellery, but most of them have expired. Have you ever seen whether Estonia has plans to accept this 10 billion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U129	Thank you for your question. This is the time to make plans. This is the time to make plans. And I think the Riigikogu has a very important role to play here, because it is really about strategic choices. After all, the money is not used for mere purposes, it is used for carrying out some fundamental decisions. It's gonna take money. And that was what I was referring to, that the Riigikogu must, in our opinion, take on a very clear role here. As far as hydrogen is concerned, I can confirm this as a participant in government meetings that more and more hydrogen is being spoken about. So hydrogen is still at issue in these debates. But this is the time to make plans. These 46 development plans, this number already says that there is a problem here. I think that, at the moment, we still need to focus on Estonia's future goals as a whole, to look at them. And the Riigikogu should participate in the decision-making process of this EUR 10 billion in some form.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U130	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U131	Thank you. Mr. Auditor General! We have now talked about public services and also talked about them in the Special Committee. Thank you for that review. But our law requires that we also talk today about another item on the agenda, which is the annual report for the previous year. Tell me what your assessment of country management would be in a situation where the overall economic economy was very good, but the budget was made with a negative: it turned out to be structurally 2.3% of GDP minus GDP. Is such management adequate? Does this respond to the economic situation and will it ease our crisis management now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U132	Following the letter of the Act, the Auditor General has always tried to be very precise, and our report on the future of priority public services is actually a report which, according to the law, must be presented together with the audit of the annual report. As far as governance is concerned, what concerns us and what we pointed out at the beginning of spring is that we do not have a good overview in the Ministry of Finance of, for example, the state of implementation of the budget two months before the end of the financial year. Therefore, there may be a great deal of overspending and all that comes with it. We have proposed that this review should be clarified and dealt with more seriously. It is also very closely linked to what I referred to earlier: that digitalisation could also reach the world in which the state budget is drawn up and reported. With regard to Estonia's largest budget next year and the decisions that will be made in it, the decisions are definitely political. It's time to spend some money. The question is what kind of expenditure they are and what they mean for our future. I think that is the key issue. But I hope that, at second reading, you will discuss this here in the debate between the coalition and the opposition, directly and, if necessary, sharply.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U133	Paul Woodland!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U134	Thank you very much. Good waitress! Thank you very much for the presentation, which was very pleasant, and, of course, this document itself. This document of the National Audit Office as a tool is very well used, thanks for that! Of course, I am pleased that you support the Ernitsa Group. I am thinking of this reformulation of the state budget and of making it edible. I hope that in the future the state budget will also be better processed by people who are not very big professionals. But for today's document, when we are talking about various social services, public services, you have indicated that we have a new situation. And indeed, people are pensioning, the population is getting older, our social situation has changed very significantly. And in order to find a way out of this situation, you have also brought a number of summaries. You refer to the creation of incentives on page 4 as well as to keeping employment longer, suggesting that innovations should be introduced, which are all very good, but also to some extent costly. And then you say that the fourth recommendation is to set realistic requirements for the quality and availability of services. That's a very strong suggestion. And here comes my question. Because this set of realistic requirements can mean both quality and quantity. Do you mean that...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U135	Please, make your question brief.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U136	Can we read here the recommendation that we need to speak honestly about reducing the volume of services, reducing services, restricting or restricting social groups to which access to services would be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U137	Thank you for your question. Firstly, the situation is not very new. It's been a long time, hasn't it? We just brought him out in another position with a slightly more regional view and put multiple problems in one picture. Our main proposal is that we are now honest and say that demography and everything else have led us to recognise that the provision of services in the same way is no longer possible. Does that mean a reduction in volume? It doesn't mean a reduction in volume. If a person is ill, he must be cured. If the house is on fire, the light must be extinguished. If there's crime in the alley, it can't be there. So in this sense, it is not a question of volume reduction. All these solutions, called temporary... We'll take a family doctor at the hospital: temporary, extreme, it can only be done in extreme cases. There's nothing extreme here! Let's take away all the different possibilities we have for providing the family doctor service and put them honestly on the map. Let's say that in some area there are no more people coming, and then we are able to provide the service in this way, in another region in another way. But there's no way that this means that I'm an islander in Hiiumaa, but I dare say it, you don't have to treat people. Still need to be treated. That's not the question. But to make it look like we have a house that heals, we don't need to. We need people here who actually heal. And I think now is the time to just say that we're moving on differently. Things have changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U138	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U139	Thank you, good manager. Good Auditor General! Thank you very much for a meaningful and thought-provoking presentation. I ask two questions on completely different subjects, as the report also addressed very detailed concerns that need to be addressed. I ask about the MES: how does the National Audit Office see it? What rules must be followed by a procedure whereby a decision is taken to grant loans with the support of state resources? Is it still a financial institution that needs to assess the risk: look at the turnover, the number of employees, assess the risk of issuing the loan? And the second question. As the report spoke of very big issues, I would ask the future for this 10 billion. How can the Riigikogu channel this money into the development of Estonia in the way that extraordinary funds are contributed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U140	Okay, from the MES. What procedure is to be followed? Of course, this is a distribution of public money, which means that it is an administrative procedure. There are rules. For those who will be able to do so, the reasons must be clear. The rules must be clear, and for those who cannot, they must be clear as to why they could not. I shall not go into the substance of this measure. Of course, there is no doubt about the risk to be assessed. When it comes to a state foundation, neither must it behave unreasonablely. On the contrary, in this case, the requirements for reasonable behaviour could be much higher. How can the Riigikogu direct decisions on the use of this 10 billion? Now, that is the kind of thing that I think it is the Riigikogu that should take decisions on this. It is not a question of next year's budget; it is a question of decisions for a very long time. It is not just a matter of sharing money, it is about fundamental choices, fundamental objectives. The reference was 46 development plans. We have to figure out why there is hope that it will be what it is meant to be. And in my opinion, the only place that can be discussed in addition to the government is the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U141	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U142	Thank you. Dear waitress, That's a really good report! Just like fresh air was brought into our room! We've had to deal with all kinds of secondary issues here for a long time, real life has kind of been left out. And with this report, it was like real life was brought to the bar again. When it comes to the subject of the MES and, at all, the extraordinary measures that were taken in the spring, it is certainly an issue that we are discussing for a long time how they have been resolved and what has been done there. But there is one situation that we discussed in the Committee on Rural Affairs. In fact, the border between the analogous measures of the state-supporting institutions, whether through EAS or KredEx, is blurred. There has been a situation where one project can actually receive several kinds of support, and everything is legal. How can we view such a situation, and how can such a parallel world be restored to some context?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U143	Thank you. First of all, it must be said that the decisions that were made were made in March and April, after all, in a rather short time. I think this was the time when decisions had to be made relatively quickly in this moment, and in many ways these solutions were based on the existing system. I think that, at the moment, this problem has come out very clearly, namely, this multi-site application option, which is not illegal and I would say that perhaps it does not always have to be excluded. But what's essential is that everyone knows where the money's coming from. So I think, on the one hand, it would certainly be necessary to have an exchange of information. And on the other hand, it's my personal idea, which I've been thinking about looking in both KredEx and the MES, maybe you should think about how they could do these things together. Somehow, these pieces should be more clearly distinguished, perhaps too much overlap. There's a chance of such a contraction. Perhaps Estonia does not need two such institutions, perhaps one would suffice. But there is also such a political moment at stake here. I am not talking about party politics, but about the aspect of political choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U144	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U145	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Thank you for that review. It was very honest, I'd say eye-opening and imaginative at once. As an expert in a particular field, you deal with one area, and when the police, the rescue and everything else comes to it, it makes the picture much clearer. So thank you very much for this review. Yes, all those who work at retirement age are likely to have to be thanked more and more as teachers. A deep bow and thanks to them for doing it, because the picture is pretty drastic. I imagine that if you add an analysis of the nurses here, the picture will get even sadder. The Association of Estonian Sisters has said that in the coming years, if we look forward, we will be missing 4,000 sisters. My question is that if nothing is done, it may actually mean that life in the country becomes practically impossible and people go to cities. And it's already a security risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U146	Thank you for your question. Indeed, I also pointed out in my speech that it has a much wider meaning than simply whether I am going to get a family doctor tomorrow or how far my constable is. This is certainly a question with a broader dimension: is it possible to live anywhere in Estonia. Priority services must be available, medical care must be available, rescue must be available, procedures must be guaranteed and teachers must also be at a reasonable distance. So it certainly has a wider impact. I do hope that it is not so bad that after a while it will not be possible to live in a region in Estonia. I hope that these issues will be discussed very seriously in the government and in the Riigikogu and solutions will be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U147	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U148	Thank you, manager. Dear Auditor General, Thank you very much for your meaningful presentation. It must make everyone think; the speech is directed forward. There should be a conclusion. I ask: does anyone in Estonia appreciate how much real estate we have? What expenses do we have to spend every year on the property? Will these costs decrease over the years, or will they be stable? How many buildings do we have? Is someone doing this analytical inventory? Ultimately, it is our common money, which also pays the salaries of teachers and doctors. It seems to me that the state does not have an overview of real estate: what we are building, whether we are building up overall costs. Is there such a report over the years whether we increased expenditure in a given year or reduced expenditure through the large investments that are being made? Can such an assessment be read from anywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U149	If we are talking about real estate that is state-owned, I certainly dare say that there is an overview of state property as such. It's known what belongs to the state and what doesn't. When it comes to the cost of maintaining state property in general, I do not think there is such a good overview. Information about the cost side is certainly necessary, and indirectly it can also be identified through the state budget. But when it comes to the cost of real estate, the role of the State Real Estate Company would certainly need to be rediscovered. Those costs that are made through the State Real Estate Corporation would, I think, need a much, much clearer picture. There's a review, and I think the numbers that look back on it are just really big. This is a subject that certainly needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U150	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U151	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, thank you very much. Thank you very much. In fact, we have quite a lot of problems, as we always do in life. I'm concentrating on medical and medical issues. You have been in the past, and I thank you very much for all the different aspects of the medical system and its financing. One sad thing is that we are actually in the countries of the European Union at the very last place in terms of our health outcomes and access to all medical care, which shows that the system is unsustainable. And it's not just the first plane of the primary plane, it's already a real alarm, but it's the whole system. My question is whether suddenly the National Audit Office should not help the government to analyse the organisation and financing of the health care system, the use of financial resources. It is obviously unsustainable, but it must be proven that it is unsustainable. So far, it seems that this has not been understood, we are simply, as a whole, in front of a broken trough with the whole system. I guess without healthy people, this country doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U152	Thank you for your question. Luckily, I can tell you, unfortunately, it's only two years from now, but then I want to talk about healthcare in this very remote control. We have set the goal of giving a picture of what is happening in healthcare in two years' time. I'm sure we'll work in the meantime. For example, a few months or months ago, we started a study of cancer treatment issues. There are also very clear questions about the rational use of resources. And we also deal with dental quality issues and everything else. But, unfortunately, I can only give you such a full picture in two years' time. However, it takes time, it is not an easy matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U153	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U154	Thank you! Dear waitress, dear Auditor General. I will also continue on health care. You spoke here about the shortage of staff in the health care system for quite a long time, and above all about the family doctors, but Helmen Küttt also touched on the shortage of nurses. You mentioned that even well-trained family doctors are leaving work relatively quickly because of burnout, but certainly also because of a small salary. My question is whether the National Audit Office plans, as you said, to take a closer look at healthcare prices, to see if the wage components are fair there, so that employers can pay fair wages to nurses and doctors. And more broadly, do you also look at public procurement for specialised medical care, whether the public procurement system that we have in other public procurements is at all suitable for obtaining medical equipment and specialised medical care services?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U155	Thank you for your question. I'll answer in two parts. I once stated that in the speech I actually referred to burning out, talking about teachers. Within five years, nearly half of this job will leave. But I'm sure it's also a problem with doctors. Speaking of family doctors, the problem is that if we have few graduates a year in 2020 for example, this year there were only 17 graduates, then less than half of them go to work in the past, too, as a family doctor, take a list. Maybe they're going somewhere to help. There is also this issue of lack of experience, the fear of taking responsibility immediately. But we will certainly look at health care and, in two years' time, when we talk about health care, we will also look at the cost. The second part of the question concerned public procurement of specialised medical care. We have carried out an audit, which was now introduced in the summer, around Midsummer Day, precisely on their procurement, i.e. on the procurement of services from private health care institutions. I may be a little wrong, but I think about 9% of the total cost goes to that. We brought out a lot of problems there. As far as I know, there was also a debate on this issue recently in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, and it turned out that the Health Insurance Fund had taken quite a few of these proposals into account, concerning procurement. So this effect has been there in a short time. But I'm sure we'll keep looking at this. Indeed, there were situations where those who did not have doctors, buildings, or equipment could win procurements and lose those who had them. There were clear problems. But there's a new procurement coming up, and apparently a lot of proposals have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U156	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Auditor General! Teachers also burn out because very many schools do not have enough support staff. A few years ago, we gave you the idea in the Riigikogu that you are actually doing this on a regular basis, but you could look into the real situation in schools with support staff. And I know you're doing this audit. I want to ask you where it is. When can we get to know the results?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U158	Thank you for your question. I can answer that as soon as I leave here, I'm going to write a preface to it. The audit of the support specialists is actually already done, we have received feedback. I can't tell you everything it says right now, before the chief of staff has to sign it. But one thing I can say is that this is exactly the same problem, which is also the issue that I was dealing with here: there are no people in Estonia. In fact, in the case of support specialists, this is the same question, and there must also be a decision on how we can actually help children solve their problems with the number of people we have to take in Estonia. I think we need to take a time-out here. Or I don't really think that the time to take it down is the kids don't have time to grow up. We have to decide quickly what we're going to do. We live in knowledge, and the law provides that support services are, but not really. And now we have to make a decision, which we still do. I think that this is the same issue as for the four priority services that I talked about today. It's not much different than that. But in the near future, I hope we can talk about this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U159	Thank you, Reverend Auditor General, for a meaningful overview and comprehensive answers to the members of the Riigikogu! No further questions for you. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I must apologise for reading the current item a little wrong in my question, but the Auditor General was very precise and found an opportunity not to answer my question. Of course, he did not talk about the annual report, although the subject is the same, the management last year. His item was entitled 'Conservation of State Assets' and everything there was. My question remains the same, and the main issue is whether last year's management was done in a prudent manner. And then I myself will answer: no, the budget was not yet again, for the fourth year in a row, for the third year in a row, in line with the economic situation. Despite the excellent economic situation, the budget was negative and the structural minus became ever bigger. This means that it was indeed not possible to monitor where these costs ran. The argument that this is only a problem of ongoing assessment, I do not entirely agree with that. This is the day-to-day work of the Minister of Finance to monitor and respond to expenditure, not to have the Riigikogu pile up fixed costs. And, of course, the budget must be made with a certain margin of strength. This has not been done by any government of Jüri Ratas. And 2.3% of the structural minus, of course, violates the budget rules. Budget rules called for improvements in 2018 screw-up, but they made it even bigger. But, of course, I thank you for the work that was presented here. This concerns the availability of public services, particularly in regions. This is not a topic invented by the National Audit Office, it is something that has been discussed in Estonia since the nineties, including in this Chamber and even when I have been a party to these disputes. It has always been clear that the differences between land and city can only be eliminated by communism and atomic bomb. But despite this, all parties are each other's victories, well, not all parties and not all so triumphed against the fact that they can guarantee their doctor, their fireman and so on everywhere in Estonia. No, however, it is also the case with uneven settlements that it is inevitable that the proximity of services will vary. And as Janar Holm said, it's not just about money, it's about people. It's about clients and patients, and it's about not having people. People don't just go into the woods to be doctors, firemen, and police officers. They want to be in a certain environment. And inevitably, those who choose to live away from the city cannot take this story so seriously in the future that they have everything very well at their hands and feet. It's not, it's never gonna be. The Auditor General said it out loud, honor and praise to him! May all the parties represented in this Chamber say the same! And, of course, we also had this debate in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. On Monday, we also managed to set up a small discussion, as vigilant citizens from the coalition grabbed the words that we did not have enough people. They immediately began to think about migration and everything. The question here is certainly not that bringing people in is some sort of solution. Public service is the kind of thing that is inevitably linked to proximity and the location of people. It is quite a different matter if we say, in the case of production, that we have to produce as many as there are people. Public services must minimise differences in people's location. But yes, thank you for this report. That'll stop.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U161	Thank you. Ivari Padar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U162	Ladies and gentlemen, For my part too, thank you very much for this presentation, which was like a sip of real life, fresh air from real life in our hall! We've wasted enough time here on topics we shouldn't waste. But here, in a relatively concentrated report, important bottlenecks were highlighted. And the timing is also very good. The Prime Minister has already been talking about Estonia's strategy until 2035, but in this context it is clear that sectoral strategies are also being discussed and prepared. On the one hand, it is clear that the use of funds is on the agenda both in the new financial period and in the use of extraordinary European Union funds. Thus, this side view of the National Audit Office is an extremely grateful piece of work for future discussions. And thank you very much for that. Now, what has come to pass here is this general summary of these four vital areas. There's nothing to be done here, and there's a lot of determination to put down the bases to save the situation. As far as health is concerned, I believe that it is a good opportunity to have a target for health centres in this case. This gives incentives to come to remote areas to provide health services at both medical and nurses' level. The fact that the clinic will return in a new way is, in my view, very reasonable in this situation. Now, as far as salvation is concerned and volunteering is concerned, it is indisputable that volunteers are already helping to alleviate many problems. But the enthusiasm doesn't last. Somewhere, there's some kind of limit that needs to be taken into account. But obviously promoting and contributing to volunteering is one way of improving the situation. And I guess that's what we're gonna have to deal with in a row. Now those issues that concern specific crisis assistance measures. I understand that more has been said about the Rural Promotion Foundation. What has happened continues to require analysis. We can see clearly that what was the purpose or purpose of what went through the explanatory notes in this Chamber of the Riigikogu and the actual use of it is in conflict. Clearly, we need to look seriously at the cross-financing of the same project from different funds: how it is done, where it is justified, where it is unsubstantiated. All this work is ahead of us. And as far as the Rural Promotion Foundation is concerned, in the case of the Rural Promotion Foundation, I have been disturbed since the beginning of this government by the removal from the Council of the representatives of the existing approved agricultural organisations. It has made this situation the way it is today. The representatives of both the Chamber of Agriculture and the Farmers' Confederation are missing there, and that is why we need to see what has actually happened there. There was also a discussion about the financial report. Why should the financial report be monitored once a year? Why can't it be watched on-line every day? It is certainly something that needs to be pointed out that it really should become so that we can look at the country's state of affairs every day. I don't know exactly what's missing. And I also didn't ask the Auditor General what was missing so he could become such a day-to-day. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U163	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U164	And then there's nothing, and I'm happy for the Defence League! I'm a re-established member of the Võru Defence League. And I would certainly like to repeat that this material is very good additional material for members of the Riigikogu, aid material on the corner of the table, as we begin to look at all the approaches that we are discussing in the run-up to 2035 or in the run-up to 2027 when we are undertaking a new financial period for the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U165	Thank you. Peeter Ernits, please, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U166	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I watched the papers that appeared ten years ago. Anneli Talvik, a family doctor, wrote this. Ten years from now, it means that there are places in Estonia where there is no family doctor within a radius of about 100 kilometres. And another thing that he foretold: The gooks and the incantational doctors are commonplace in the world of family doctors. He also spoke of a pathologist who acts as a family doctor on an island, but who has experience only with those who no longer need medical care. These were predictions 10 years ago. And now, when we look at this excellent report, we see that many have been fulfilled. I don't think there's really been any real fulfillment of the slit-eyed and the lyrics, maybe the doctors know better. But if you look at these maps, right now we've reached a situation where half of us here are peripheral ambassadors. I mean, those who have been elected from Tallinn or elsewhere in Harjumaa or the city of Tartu or Tartumaa are the so-called non-terrestrial ambassadors, the rest are all Uno, you and Andrus, you are all peripheral ambassadors. Jürgen, too, and many others. Well, what's in here? If you look at all four of these family doctors, teachers, policemen, rescuers, Harjumaa and Raplamaa are successful, Järvamaa are also successful. But the real bombhole is Jõgevamaa, Võrumaa, Läänemaa and Hiiumaa, especially Hiiumaa. There are some good things. For example, in the case of rescuers, and also in the case of policemen, the real paradise is Raplamaa. There's nothing wrong with it. And in the case of family doctors, Saaremaa is. But in the case of family doctors, it's a small nuance that there are predominantly replacement doctors. And it's kind of delayed this crisis. In the case of teachers, Harjumaa is at the top. But the overall picture is very, very sad. And as the Auditor General said, special measures are needed. A demographic approach is needed. The flag on the flag, the patch on the cloth method doesn't lead anywhere. Even the introduction of these many new technologies, e-consultations and so on, it only embellishes the real picture, but the reality is not improved and there is no longer a perspective. If in the case of family doctors and other doctors somewhere there's seven years as a temporary replacement, what's that? Temporary, eternal... Family doctor competitions go wrong and so on and so forth. We are talking about the deficit of IT-specifics that should be brought to Estonia from outside, we are talking about the deficit of nurses. But this is where I read that the police deficit up to 2030 is such that they need 350-400 more than they need from the institutions. There's a shortage of rescuers of 500, family doctors of about 400. So, where do we get all these? Is it really necessary to point out that life goes to Harju County and Tallinn, Tartu City and Tartu County, and the rest of the places, as Anneli Talvik predicted ten years ago, are such family doctor-free areas and soon also teacher-free areas? But you can't agree to that. And this vicious circle has been emerging for a long time. How do we solve this? As I said, half of us or boldly over half of us are actually peripheral ambassadors here, even if they don't want to admit it to themselves. Jürgen Ligi is also an envoy here on the outskirts. If you look at the current coalition agreement or the election programmes of the various political parties, I have reviewed all these beautiful stories, it says that it is necessary to ensure a uniform availability of services. But real life has made some serious adjustments. Can we acknowledge that there are some areas where wolves and lynxes and other forest dwellers have priority, but in order to receive essential services, do we need to go to Finland? By the way, Lääne-Virumaa is also such a half-bomb hole, although it's hard to believe. But by tracking them, it turns out that a lot of people have gone to Finland. Lääne-Virumaa is a very beautiful and prosperous county, but according to these maps, it turns out he's in this kind of condition, not quite, but rather poor. So these are the things that we should all be dealing with. In the case of budgetary strategies, we should also take into account the same demographic coefficient in order not to reach a situation where we are forced to introduce different standards. One standard is here in Tallinn, elsewhere in Harjumaa, in the centre of Tartu and elsewhere in Tartu County, and the rest is some sort of... So there are a lot of ideas here, but we can only alleviate this together, regardless of who is running the country, and only with all the joint efforts. And above all, it must be thought of by the so-called periphery ambassadors who are here, Ants is not a periphery ambassador, but very many are, I am half a periphery ambassador. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U167	Aivar Chef on behalf of the Fatherland party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U168	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank you first, Janar, you and your team. Let's be honest: over a long time, we have one material that looks at things a little differently than usual. It looks at the different regions of Estonia through their concerns and joys. And another, which I think is important when you read this report of the National Audit Office: decisions have been made. Let me give you a good example of what we have, this is a very important decision. Fifteen years ago, there was a concern that no one wanted to go to college as a teacher. Then the decision was made to grant early allowance to teachers if they went to work in Ida-Virumaa, if I remember correctly. This opportunity expanded and has now expanded its support across Estonia. We've solved one problem. There's a perfectly normal competition for a teaching position at the university. If we look at this table where young teachers have used starting support in the region, when they have graduated from the university, we will first see Tallinn and other Harjumaa, then we will see the city of Tartu. Then there's a very long, empty country, and then one-two-three-fourths of different counties start to come. With this measure, we solved one problem, but did not foresee that the regional support for which the measure was intended could happen. I liked it, Janar, your courage to say here that if there is just as much money as there is, you have to decide at some point and tell me what this money can do. We're used to getting a little extra money from every state budget, but it's for someone or something. Let's talk about family medicine. Knowing the economy today, we understand very clearly that if there are fewer than a thousand people on the list, the practice does not pay off the family doctor. From 1,500 up, this is the limit from which the family doctor has the ability to make the decisions he should make. And if there are about 2,000 people on the list, it's a very well-functioning practice. If we know that there is a decrease in population in the regions, we should review where and how the lists can be compiled so that the family doctor can take the help aside and provide the service at a very good level. The second issue is education. As the chairman of one of the parish councils myself, I know that none of the councils voluntarily want to shut down any school. Schools are usually shut down by children and parents, and they don't just send children to that school anymore. But if we look at the picture of Estonia, look at the last century or the last 20 years, the number of children has fallen by 30%, but the number of teachers has fallen by a few percent. We have many schools where five or fewer children go to the 10th grade of upper secondary school, but there is a state secondary school at the same distance of 7 to 8 kilometres. It must be very difficult for local authorities to make these decisions, especially if you are somewhere in the region. How do you say they're shutting down their district school? You fight to the last drop of blood to avoid shutting it down. Perhaps it should be made clear which schools should be close to home... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U169	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U170	...and what are the children's rides to? And here comes the next problem. We've had free public transport for several years. Does anyone dare say in this Chamber that public transport takes account of the current education system? I will give a good example of Jõgeva County, because besides being the chairman of the municipal council there, I am also the chairman of the local government union in the old sense of the region, now the board of the JAEK Centre of Entrepreneurship. If there is one state gymnasium, the child should get from each county point in the morning to school at the right time, not an hour earlier. And the bus shouldn't drive for two hours. We've been discussing that it shouldn't take more than 40 minutes to drive anywhere. The struggle to get a child from another area to the state gymnasium in Jõgeva wasn't done by the parish elders, they had to go by themselves, someone had to tell them. The reality is that the state has taken on the role of a public transport centre. Although the role of local governments on the papers is very high, it is in fact more the role of the Road Administration. Such decisions should be very clearly agreed on how public transport, for which we allocate a very large amount from the state budget, would be resolved by putting the fifth grade boy or girl on the bus and knowing that he will be at the bigger centre of the school in 20 minutes. We'd solve a lot of problems like this. It is clear that, as Janar said, there are many retired and retired people in family medicine, the same is true in the education system. These concerns can be resolved, and I think the document that we have on this table today is one very good basis for moving forward when we talk about the RES next year or the state budget for the next year to make the right decisions. And I would like to stress once again that decisions must be considered in such a way that, in the event of one good deed, there is no other thing to ruin. It is also clear that there is a private sector alongside the public sector. It should be borne in mind that if the private sector provides some kind of service very well, then it is pointless for the state to go stinging at it. At the moment, I see, for example, in nursing homes, that the private sector would be able to provide this service. The same-price service is provided by the public sector, except that it builds beds 30% more expensive than the private sector, which is the waste of taxpayers' money. Instead, we might be able to support a service by the state with this money. After all, one major concern is why children should pay for their parents'home, which is normal in many other parts of the world. But we're used to moms and dads wanting to take care of themselves. They don't want their kids' money. But thank you! And once again, thank you to the National Audit Office for a very meaningful summary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U171	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. Thank you very much to the Auditor General. Thanks to all the questioners! Today's second item is being dealt with, so let's move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U172	The third item is the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Accepting the National Summary Report for the financial year 2019' presented by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Before you is the country's consolidated annual report for the financial year 2019. This report gives you an overview of the steps taken by the government in 2019 with taxpayers' money to boost our economy, people's well-being and security, and as a result our country's financial situation changed. The most important task of the government is to ensure the survival of the Estonian people and of independent and protected Estonia. I have always stressed in my political activities that the state can only succeed thanks to the contribution of successful entrepreneurs and good citizens. By summing up the years, we are moving in the right direction. The economy grew by 5%, people are getting better and better, the average wage increased by 7.5%, the number of people employed increased by 1% each year, and unemployment fell to 4.4%. All of this, of course, took place before the corona crisis began. In brief, however, I will give you a picture of the government's achievement of its general objectives. One goal in 2019 was a family-friendly Estonia, where people feel safe and secure and Estonia is a country where their family and home are created and where all those who have left abroad are welcome back. The total birth rate in 2019 was 1.66, which is almost the same as in 2018 was 1.67. The Government of the Republic initiated an amendment to the Income Tax Act, which will enable people receiving maternity benefit in the last quarter of the year to transfer part of the benefit for tax purposes to the following year. The additional tax-free income will increase by EUR 100 per month from the third child. The second objective was a cohesive society. In order to ensure a coherent society, the government contributes to increasing people's well-being and sense of security, shortens treatment queues and reduces social inequalities. The government's priority is to pay attention to improving the livelihood and well-being of older people and to developing services for people with special needs. To this end, the government approved the proposed changes to the second pillar of funded pension, resulting in the optionalisation of pension assets in the second pillar and the possibility of mobilising the accumulated funds before the retirement age. The Government of the Republic also initiated an amendment to the Income Tax Act, which will result in an increase in the rate of tax-free income for people receiving pensions from several countries. The Government of the Republic has set itself the objective of developing a knowledge-based economy and lifelong learning. The government contributes to economic growth, which improves the lives of everyone everywhere, both in the city and in the countryside. In December 2019, the government approved the principles and guidelines for PPP projects, on the basis of which the state, in cooperation with the private sector, will build large infrastructure projects. As a pilot project, preparation of the construction of the Libatse-Nurme road section will be started between Pärnu and Tallinn. With the help of the PPP, it will be possible to build the road of Tallinn to Tallinn, Tallinn to Tartu and Tallinn to the full four lines in the next few years. It also offers a very good solution for the rapid completion of the Saaremaa fixed connection. In addition, the government opened the way for the establishment of higher windmills in northeastern Estonia. During the last two years, the volume of border trade in alcohol sales in Estonia and Latvia has decreased by 50% as a result of the reduction in excise duties on alcohol. Changes have also taken place at the northern border and tourists' alcohol purchases were recovering in 2019 to 2016 and 2017 levels, i.e. before excise duty rises. Both strong and lean alcohol was reduced by 25% in 2019 in order to boost both intra-Estonian and foreign trade. The fourth goal was effective governance. The idea of a broad-based public budget review was approved, which must give us a comprehensive picture of the activities and services of the state and show whether the expenditure we are spending is always targeted at the right place and serve our people and the country in the best way: not only in terms of austerity, but in terms of better management. We set the goal of doing more with less. In addition, as part of the state budget review, we want to pay particular attention to the financing of research and development in order to get a clear and comprehensive picture of whether the research paid for taxpayers' money really benefits the Estonian economy. The last, but certainly not least, government objective in 2019 was a free and protected country. In this area, too, we have met the objectives: the amount of military defence costs, plus the additional costs of Estonia as the host state and the additional costs of the National Defence Investment Programme, is more than 2% of GDP. The most important task of the government is to ensure the survival of the Estonian people and of independent and protected Estonia. Let's continue with the plans we've made so far to build the eastern border, as far as possible. Our country's important foundation is membership of international organisations. Strong bilateral and regional relations ensure a favourable external environment for Estonia. The summary report for the financial year of the State has been compiled on the basis of the accounts of all public sector entities. It shall consist of an annual report and an accounting report and shall include data on the state, local government, government and public sector as a whole. The general government had assets of a total of EUR 17.67 billion at 31 December 2019, most of which were fixed assets. It amounts to EUR 13.43 billion. Compared to the previous period, the value of the assets increased by EUR 590.2 million. The total liabilities amounted to EUR 7.03 billion and increased by EUR 799,8 million compared to the previous period. According to the corrected data of Statistics Estonia, the nominal government balance was in surplus in 2019 at EUR 21 million, or 0.1% of GDP. The deficit consisted of central government and local authorities, each accounting for 0.1% of GDP, and was offset by the surplus of social security funds at 0.3% of GDP. The results of the social security funds exceeded expectations mainly in relation to the health insurance fund, and this was caused by the good income from social tax. Compared to 2018, the general government position improved by 0.6% of GDP, i.e. by 152 million euros. Due to the negative result of 2019, which amounted to 577 million euros, and the cash-flow deficit of 226.6 million euros, the Riigikogu cannot decide to increase the stabilisation reserve at the expense of the cash-flow surplus. The summary report of the financial year also passes the audit of the National Audit Office before submitting it to the Riigikogu. The National Audit Office found that the annual accounts of the State for the financial year 2019 correctly reflect the state's financial position in all material parts and the economic result and cash flows of the reporting period that ended, except for a note on the balance of tangible assets. The National Audit Office made a note of the defence-related fixed assets of the Defence Forces recorded under the item "Material fixed assets' of the consolidated and non-consolidated balance sheet of the State, worth EUR 251,8 million. The organisation of the calculation of the assets of the Defence Forces does not make it possible to compare the sets of defence-related fixed assets recorded in the State's balance sheet with the detailed assets recorded in the Defence Forces Information System. The Minister of Defence gave the National Audit Office a reply that a new fixed assets module will be introduced in the calculation of the assets of the Defence Forces to ensure comparison. As the transition is work-intensive and time-intensive, comparable data are expected to be available by the end of 2021. According to the National Audit Office's audit report, the state's economic transactions have been carried out in a substantial part in accordance with the State Budget Act and the National Budget Act of 2019 and the Amending Act. This means that the National Audit Office did not find any material errors in the implementation of the State Budget Act. However, the National Audit Office pointed out that not all amounts are correct in the central part of the 2019 State Budget Act. The depreciation and value change budgets for the bulk of investments and fixed assets are actually higher than planned at EUR 2,4 million and EUR 36,4 million respectively. For the bulk of the expenditure, grants of EUR 5.5 million for the co-financing of external grants have not been eliminated for the authorities in the area of government. The Minister of Finance has replied to the National Audit Office that the Ministry of Finance is reviewing the processes and activities necessary for budget preparation with the aim of ensuring the quality of both input and output data in the budget information systems. The National Audit Office also pointed out that the Ministry of Social Affairs must use the money from the collection of gambling tax for its purpose and finance projects that do not belong to the areas of use listed in the Gambling Tax Act, i.e. medicine, care, families, elderly people and people with disabilities and people with gambling addiction, so that their expenses are placed under the grants from other budget amounts of the Ministry. As a minister, I acted legally when I had the disbursements to finance projects to promote equality suspended, because it was quite clear to me that the financing of projects supported by gambling tax in this form was not in accordance with the law. This understanding was supported by the National Audit Office in its view that the areas supported have been misinterpreted and therefore the sums collected from gambling tax have been used for purposes not prescribed by law. The Ministry of Social Affairs also has funds other than those from gambling tax to use in the budget to make such grants. Honourable Riigikogu! Please confirm the country's consolidated annual report for the financial year 2019. Thank you for your attention and I am delighted to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U174	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U175	Thank you. Dear Minister, Indeed, the 2019 budget was not your budget. But you were under an obligation under the current law to reduce the structural deficit. You were talking about a nominal deficit, but the law is about a structural deficit. And it was a duty to reduce it by 0.5%. I remember you were here before the Riigikogu and you talked about how you are doing this very hard, even though we doubted these measures. How did this come out in the end? According to updated data, the structural deficit in 2019 was 2.3% compared to GDP. How did the real picture come out compared to 2018: did the structural deficit decrease by 0.5%, as required by the law and as you promised to be implemented, or was it the other way round?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U176	Thank you. As we did afterwards, when Statistics Estonia had updated the GDP figures, we found out, it actually turned out to have increased. The problem is, of course, that the structural deficit takes account of this 'economic potential gap', i.e. whether the economy is estimated to be in the growth phase, overheating or hypothermia phase. Depending on this, the cost of the state budget is too high or too low. There are still a number of other components: cost growth rate and other things. Indeed, at the time of making the budget or, let's say, at the time of making the RES, we had one piece of information about the size of our GDP, and when we got an ex post assessment, the other figures came up. And those numbers were, unfortunately, ours.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U177	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Today, the Auditor General said that the state budget should be much more transparent and understandable. Do you take this into account and do something to make the state budget more readable in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U179	Thank you. Yes, the Riigikogu has come up with a bill to amend the basic law of the state budget. I also have the draft launched by the Ministry of Finance to achieve basically the same objectives. Perhaps we can even combine these drafts. Let's see how this is going to be exactly here in your proceedings, but I have been in the past as well as in the ministry that the transparency of the state budget is poor, the readability is poor and it needs to be improved. True, given that already this week, in cooperation with other ministries, the Ministry of Finance started putting together the budget for next year in accordance with the law in force, I do not dare to allow us to make the budget for next year in accordance with some new rules. But let's try to get at least this next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U180	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U181	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! In fact, the Auditor General spoke in his presentation about the long-term challenges that Estonia faces as a state. He was talking about access to public services, about teachers, rescuers, doctors. And now that I have listened to your presentation, of course, the summary of last year's budget is always looking back, but I would also have liked to have heard a strategic vision of how the state budget will help solve these demographic problems, that we have an ageing population and fewer employees. And when will you be done with this state budget review?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U182	Thank you. I am not sure that, at the time of the annual report, we will have to make a strategic vision. There are still other places for this, so it's probably a country's budget strategy or some other place. Here, however, we are talking about what had previously been set as targets, whether these objectives were achieved within the framework of this specific budget and whether this budget was legally met. But, of course, I will not question for a moment at all that we must, at every opportunity, have a big plan and look ahead for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U183	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U184	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The private sector must complete its annual report for a period of up to one year: it must be submitted by 1 July. How do you feel that the country could also strive for Parliament to make the decision that we are making today before the summer break, the summer break?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U185	Thank you. The problem is that this summary report covers all public sector players. For example, even universities do not do their report until the semester. And until we have these reports, we can't start doing it. In such a case, the time limit should be brought forward to the parties concerned. Theoretically, it's possible, but that this game deserves candles, I'm not sure about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U186	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U187	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, We got that whole deficit thing straightened out, but now we're gonna get the debt thing straightened out. You have written beautifully that the 2019 debt ratio remained 8.4%. But I looked at the previous year's report. The debt burden has still increased, both as a percentage of GDP and nominally, by more than 300 million nominally. And I also made sure that in the foreword you wrote that no money went to cover current expenses. So where did the loan go? By the way, investments decreased by 3% in 2019. And when I looked at this earlier report of the year, I saw that investments also decreased in 2018. And at the same time, the economy flourished. As you said, 5% was an increase and tax revenues increased by 9%. Investments with a decreasing trend could still have been used for running costs, normal costs. So where did the loan go?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U188	Thank you. Yes, there was an increase in the volume of the loan. Almost all this growth came from financial transactions. And in turn a very large part, almost the whole part was... Well he was basically divided into two parts, one part of which was capitalizations of large state companies, such as the capital injection of Eesti Energia, but there were other companies. If I remember right now, there were some infrastructure companies. And the second part of it was the repayment of earlier short-term loans, i.e. the repayment of safe-for-all billions, which is also a financing transaction. So one part was real investment, the other was debt roll.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U189	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U190	Thank you, good manager. Minister, I have listened to your presentation and you have said that the aim is to do more with less. I am reading the report: statistically the number of government employees increased by 766. Was this objective missed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U191	Yeah, it's a beautiful crime. In principle, this increase was caused by the raising of certain institutions in the public sector by Statistics Estonia. No more jobs were created. These jobs, which were previously in the private sector, were reclassified and are now public employees. The paper can take it all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U192	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I ask for Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as the second rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U193	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. The Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the approval of the State's consolidated report for the financial year 2019 247 at its meeting on 27 October. The meeting was attended by Mr Helme, Minister for Finance, who gave an overview of the summary report and the results for 2019 and answered questions from members of the Commission. Auditor General Janar Holm also attended the session, who gave an overview of the opinion of the National Audit Office on the 2019 summary report. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda for the meeting on Wednesday 11 November, to propose that the first reading be closed and to set a deadline of seven working days, i.e. 20 November at 5.15 p.m. for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U194	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. It is now possible to start negotiations. The first-reading procedure provides for the participation of representatives of the political groups in the negotiations. Aivar Sõerd on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The annual financial report is an accounting statement. And as the Auditor General said, the numbers are right. But let's talk a little bit about what these numbers are talking about. I would briefly focus on the report on the implementation of the state budget, which is an important part of this report, as discussed in the annual report. It is a grateful document in this sense that, as the budget has been made opaque in terms of expenditure, the real picture of the budget, the actual state of affairs, will not be revealed until two years later. Now, when we process this report, we can talk about how this 2019 budget really is. And let's remind you a little bit of history. Yes, of course, Minister Martin Helme did not prepare this budget; it was prepared by the Minister of the Fatherland Party. What did he say when he came here to see us at the end of 2018? As the budget is nominally in surplus with 130 million euros and structurally balanced, the economy is growing well and everything is rosy. But now we look at the numbers and we see that it's not rosy. First, in the spring of last year, it turned out that the year before, 2018, a decent piece of shit had been screwed up. And the law obliged this large, unexpected deficit of the previous year to be reduced by 0.5% a year. This was provided for by the current basic state budget law. And Minister Helme indeed said that this is nothing, we are reducing this deficit. And when we asked what measures that could happen, he did not answer the questions, he said that there were some kind of rejections and postponements of activities and redeployment of euro money and a wide arsenal of things that did not have to lead to budget cuts in itself. But now we are reading from the documents that we have on the table that in 2019 the budget deficit did not fall by 0.5%, but increased to 1.9% of GDP and updated data that are not available in this report to as much as 2.3% of GDP. Well, the Fatherland could comment on that. Your finance minister did this budget. So, what else? All this happened at a time when the economy grew by nearly 5%, as the Minister said, but in the preparation of the budgets it was known that the economy was growing by 2%. Forward, tax revenues. Tax revenues increased by 9.4%. At the same time, we read from the report that, for example, government investment fell by 3%, and it also states where they fell. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U196	The speaker gets three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U197	Investments in general government services and investments in defence were reduced. There you go! But debt increased at the same time, both in nominal terms and as a percentage of GDP. By the end of 2018, EUR 100 million of bonds were issued, EUR 215 million of bank loans and loan burden, which was 7.9% of GDP at the end of 2018, were already 8.4% of GDP at the end of 2019. This is a prelude to the situation we have reached today. And, of course, I forgot about the transparency of the budget. We are now only seeing the real picture, because the budget has been completely blinded in terms of expenditure. We do not know what it actually says, and now that we are dealing with next year's budget, we know that the fairy tales that the coalition is talking about here cannot be taken seriously that it is only in two years' time that we will see what the real picture is. And in order to improve the transparency of the budget, the Reform Party Group has tabled a draft that could be dealt with at a slightly faster pace. But this whole 2019 report, in particular the budget implementation report contained in it, will help to clarify a little bit the situation we have reached today. And this situation is such that it is characterised in such a way that Estonia and Greece have changed places in fiscal policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U198	Thank you very much. Aivar Chef on behalf of the Fatherland Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U199	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Aivar asked for someone to take responsibility for the Fatherland. And who's gonna take responsibility? He wasn't the minister at the time, but he's the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Aivar and other ladies and gentlemen. I think that whatever coalition is in power in the country, it is trying to do everything it can to make the people of Estonia feel good. Promises are often made which, at the moment when they are written into the budget or are made during the elections, seem very realistic. I remember a promise. Today, it is full of 12 years when Estonia was to be among the richest five countries. The idea was good, and I think there are no members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber who would not want the Estonian state to be in this good position. But the economy always makes its corrections. One minute there's a rise, one minute there's a drop. In retrospect, we could say that it is unfortunate that the people sitting in this hall at the beginning of this century were not in favour when the chairman of the People's League said that we would take a loan and build the Tartu-Tallinn highway into four lines. If this decision had been made in 2002, the road would have been built right now. In the context of this inflation, this loan would have been repaid even before the economic downturn in 2008. Today, you can build 10 kilometers for the same money. It is often said that the debt is foreign and, for God's sake, the state cannot take any cents in debt. Members of the Riigikogu sitting in this hall have a relatively good salary, shouldn't be borrowing, but if you look at the declarations made in May each year, if there is no other debt, then car leases are still very many, not to mention that some have apartment or other loans. But let's think about our young people with children at home! Who has a home and who has not taken a bank loan? A mortgage is still taken because it is known that... I myself laugh that if I had taken out a loan for an apartment 11 years ago, today this apartment would have been practically out of hand because the price is making its own adjustments. Of course, it is true that the decisions made in 2018 were perhaps slightly electoral and were also hoped for strong economic growth. This growth didn't come. But today we see that we were able to react quickly when the crisis came about in the spring. We are one of the European countries that, judging from the state of the crisis today, have been relatively well placed. No one knows what the next four, five, six months will bring. But the day before yesterday, news came to our attention that the Turkish family living in Germany has come up with a vaccine that has worked very well in all trials. When it arrives in Estonia in spring, we can boldly start reviving the economy again. And if I look at the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications in this room, I'll take my hat off for that. He's worried about something. When making public budgets, it discusses where to invest in order to boost the economy. Today, however, the second year is being designed. Aivar made a very serious proposal to increase the design capability in view of the state budget. But Taavi and I both know that the Road Administration said that this capacity was at the border, and Taavi suggested that another 5 million be added to the budget to ensure that this capacity was available. But there are just no designers. Such things must be done consistently, not when there is a situation or a crisis. We need to have projects in our drawer for this, if there is an opportunity to start something up in time and put it to work in the economic situation. But thank you to Mrs Aivar for a good proposal in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U200	Thank you very much. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. We have the commission's proposal to finish the first reading of draft 247. No other proposal has been received. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 20 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U201	We will consider the next item, draft law 256 on the amendment of the Natural Gas Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Let's start reading it first. Mr Taavi Aasa, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U202	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On 12 October 2020, the Government of the Republic submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Natural Gas Act. The aim of the draft is to transpose a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive on common rules for the internal market in natural gas. Under the directive on common rules for the internal market in natural gas, the Community from third countries was not regulated under a single regulation before amending the directive. The draft law amending the Natural Gas Act at first reading today clearly states in Estonian law that the rules of the European Union's common market also apply to gas routes originating in a third country. These rules include, for example, the obligation to coordinate tariffs, access to third parties, control of the circle of owners, etc. It should be stressed that gas pipeline managers in Estonia have been required to comply with such obligations since 2010. The draft also clarifies the tasks of the Competition Authority in resolving disputes concerning the use of the [gas transmission] transmission network or production stage pipes from a third country and obliges the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to inform the European Commission of agreements concluded between the Estonian State and a third country with a view to regulating the management of the gas transmission line coming from a third country. The draft is planned to enter into force as a general rule. I ask you to support this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U203	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Sven Sester, President of the Economic Commission, who I do not see in [the Chamber], as the second rapporteur. [[Sven Sester is entering the hall.]] Pleasure, the co-rapporteur has arrived!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U204	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The draft was dealt with by the Economic Commission at its meeting on 20 October. We invited Mr Taavi Aasa, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Mr Rein Vaksa, Head of Energy Markets from the same Ministry. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure presented this draft law amending the Natural Gas Act, which is number 256. Like in this Chamber, he stated in the Commission that it is mainly about the transposition of the directive and it concerns the natural gas transmission of third countries on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. According to the Minister, this directive does not really concern Estonia very much. The reason is that there are currently no such gas routes in Estonia and there are no known plans to establish such routes. However, since this is a European directive, all Member States must transpose it. According to the directive, Estonia really needs to inform the European Union of the establishment of such routes, which will be able to participate in the process if they wish. In the event of a dispute, the Competition Authority is empowered to resolve disputes. Rein Vaks, who is the head of the energy markets, added that this draft will take over most of the directive and that the implementing act will also describe the details needed to complete the transposition of the directive. The legislative provisions are well in place in the draft law and therefore the directive can certainly be transposed. The Commission also asked some questions. They weren't very many, they were just a few questions, but still. There was an interest in whether some feedback was received from someone, such as market participants or parties at all, through the project information system during the coordination process. The guardians of the draft act stated that no proposals had been received from any of the parties to the draft act and that there were, as far as is known, no issues related to the subject. The second question related to the fact that the deadline for transposition of the directive has actually passed. We have examined whether there are any problems with the delay in transposing the directive. We have been assured that the European Commission has launched a formal procedure for not transposing the directive, which will examine why the directive has not been transposed. In fact, it has already been explained to the Commission that this issue is being dealt with and that the directive is being transposed into Estonian law as soon as possible. There were no further questions in the Commission, and we went to the decisions. The first decision was to appoint a previous speaker as rapporteur, which was consensual. The second decision was to propose that the draft be put on the agenda on 11 November, today, which was also consensual. And the third proposal was to finish the first reading, which was also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U205	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No questions for you. It is now possible to open negotiations, but the desire for negotiations has not been revealed. In that case, we have a proposal from the lead committee to conclude the first reading of draft 256 for a decision. The first reading is finished. The deadline for tabling amendments is 25 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U206	We will take the next item on the agenda: the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic (implementation of the Regulation on mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders) 261. Let's start reading it first. Minister of Justice Raivo Aegis, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of Justice has prepared a draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure to implement a regulation on mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders. It complements the Code of Criminal Procedure to ensure cooperation between the Member States of the European Union in the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders. In addition, the provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the powers of the prosecutor's office in criminal proceedings is complemented in order to enable effective cooperation in the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. It is important to point out that both regulations relating to [this draft] are directly applicable and the proposed amendments are intended to clarify the implementing measures and definitions necessary for the application of the Regulations. The European Delegated Prosecutor shall have the right to be heard by the European Delegated Prosecutor and by the European Delegated Prosecutor. According to § 1 (1) of the draft law, § 30 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure is supplemented in such a way that the European Prosecutor and the European Prosecutor have the same rights as the prosecutor's office in Estonian criminal proceedings in order to carry out their duties under the EPCO Regulation. The Code of Criminal Procedure shall specify the procedures for the recognition, execution and transmission of freezing orders with the competent authorities and shall specify the decision-making procedures for the freezing order. Mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders between European Member States has already been transposed into the Code of Criminal Procedure under the Framework Decisions in the past and no major changes or reorganisations are planned for the competent authorities. Pursuant to § 1 (2) of the draft law, § 48954 of the Code of Criminal Procedure is added to the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which the freezing order has been transmitted pursuant to the order on mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders to be processed and enforced by the prosecutor's office and recognised by the Harju County Court. The freezing order shall have jurisdiction to draw up and transmit in pre-trial proceedings the prosecutor's office and the court in judicial proceedings. The competent authorities for the recognition, execution and transmission of freezing orders shall not change in nature compared to the arrangements in force. In the recognition and enforcement of freezing orders, the competence to deal with the decision is given to the prosecutor's office in general, instead of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which allows for more flexible working arrangements for the prosecutor's office. The Code of Criminal Procedure shall be specified with the competent authorities for the recognition, execution and transmission of confiscation orders and shall specify the procedures for the decision-making of confiscation. According to § 1 (2) of the draft law, the Code of Criminal Procedure is supplemented by § 48955, according to which the confiscation order has been transmitted pursuant to the order for mutual recognition by the Ministry of Justice and recognised and enforced by the court. The county court of the place of residence of the person whose property is the subject of the confiscation order, or, if there is no residence, the Harju County Court, shall have jurisdiction to recognise the confiscation order and decide on the confiscation. The confiscation order shall be transmitted by the county court which issued the decision for the first time in the same criminal case and shall be drawn up and transmitted by the confiscation order on its own initiative or at the request of the prosecutor's office. According to the current Code of Criminal Procedure, the competent authority for dealing with the confiscation order is the Public Prosecutor's Office and Harju County Court is competent to decide whether to execute it. So that's the difference. The recognition and enforcement of the confiscation order shall take place after the entry into force of the final judgment and the execution of the confiscation order which has entered into force in accordance with national procedures shall not be carried out by the prosecutor's office. Therefore, in the case of confiscation orders, the appointment of the prosecutor's office as the competent authority is neither justified nor necessary. In order to ensure operational cooperation, the Ministry of Justice has been designated in the draft as the competent authority, which, according to the Code of Criminal Procedure, is generally the central authority for cooperation in international criminal proceedings. As a derogation from the rules in force, the draft provides that, as a general rule, the execution of the confiscation order is to be decided by a court in writing, unless the lawyer of the sentenced person or a third party or his representative requests oral proceedings. The draft also envisages terminology in comparison with the current Code of Criminal Procedure. The Code of Criminal Procedure currently uses the terms 'European freezing certificate' and 'European confiscation certificate'. However, the use of such terms is misleading as it recognises and enforces, not freezing and confiscation certificates, but freezing and confiscation orders issued through freezing and confiscation certificates. For the purposes of the draft Regulation, the definitions of "retention decision' and "confession decision', which refer to decisions taken or confirmed by the requesting State concerning the freezing or confiscation of property, shall apply. It is also important to point out that the Regulation provides that Member States are to recognise and comply with all freezing and confiscation orders issued in the framework of proceedings in criminal matters brought by other Member States. Thus, Estonia must also recognise and comply with freezing and confiscation orders that are not provided for in Estonian law. And, of course, on the contrary: other Member States must comply with the decisions that are provided for in Estonian law, but which they may not have. For example, it is currently prohibited in Estonia to recognise and enforce confiscation orders issued in other Member States without a conviction being given in criminal proceedings, as Estonian law makes it impossible to confiscate without a conviction. According to the regulation, Estonia can no longer refuse to recognise and execute the confiscation order if the confiscation order has been issued by a conviction in criminal proceedings. And finally, the law came into force. The amendments necessary for the implementation of the Regulation on mutual recognition of freezing orders and confiscation orders will enter into force on 19 December 2020, as the Regulation will be applicable from that time. The amendment to § 30 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure relating to the competence of the EPPO shall enter into force in accordance with the general procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U208	There are also questions for you, dear waitress. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Justice! My question comes from human curiosity. The explanatory memorandum contains a sub-chapter of the target group, which states that less than 10 freezing certificates were submitted to Estonia for execution in the previous year and the previous year, and that Estonia also submitted freezing certificates to other countries. Curiosity lies in this: Can you in any way reflect what things were basically seized in those years? What area do they concern?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U210	Thank you very much for such a detailed question. But unfortunately, I don't know how to answer that. I guess they're related to a specific criminal procedure, I really don't know what to say today. But I'll have it, good Urve, found out and have you answer in writing, then you'll get a very accurate overview. I'm sure the DA's office has that overview.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U211	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for you, Minister. I would like Mr Vilja Toomas, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to be the rapporteur for this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U212	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic, i.e. the Regulation on Mutual Recognition of orders for freezing and confiscation, at the meeting of the Commission on 27 October 2020. Ms Raivo Aeg, Minister of Justice, and Ms Mare Tannberg, Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure, were also invited to attend, in addition to the members of the Commission and the advisors to the Commission. The bill was briefed, as is the case here today, by Minister of Justice Raivo Time. Today he did so even longer than in the committee, so I will not repeat to you what the Minister spoke about in the committee. It must be said that the Commission's debate was relatively short. The Members of the Commission did not ask much questions. Urve Tiidus asked one question, and it was about the fact that he had read that there is a sentence in the draft, which says that Estonia has less chance of refusing to recognise freezing and confiscation orders. Mare Tannberg tried to explain what it was coming from. In fact, according to Estonian law, there is no right to confiscate property in Estonia until a conviction judgment has entered into force. In many countries there is no such standard, and therefore Estonia will not be able to recognise the type of judgments that have been handed down in another country. So, in this sense, Estonia has less chance of recognising confiscation orders. I would say so much that the draft had also been sent to the Supreme Court, the Chancellor of Justice and the Estonian Bar Association for publication of the opinion. The only comments were submitted by the Estonian Bar Association. But I have to say that these were basically proposals for clarification; substantive proposals did not come from the bar Association. And they were already introduced before the draft was submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings. And now I'm going to go to the Commission's decisions. The Commission took such decisions: firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 11 November 2020; secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed; thirdly, to set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 25 November 2020; fourthly, to appoint Vilja Toomas as rapporteur. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U213	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. It is possible to open negotiations. Are there any representatives of the political groups who would like to make a speech? There is no wish to speak, so let us consider the negotiations to be concluded. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 261. The first reading is closed and the deadline for amendments is 25 November at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U214	The next item is the first reading of Bill 275 on the amendment of the Prisons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws (transfer of duties of the Detention House). This is Minister of Justice Raivo Aegis, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U215	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of Justice has prepared a draft law on the amendment of the Prisons Act and related amendments to other laws on the transfer of some of the detention houses to prisons. The draft provides for the following changes: The possibility is being created to apprehend, in addition to convicted and arrested persons, arrested persons who have been arrested in the respective area, persons detained for a short period of time, for up to 48 hours, and persons who have been sobered up. The prisons do not take over the buildings that have been used as detention facilities so far. Since there are detention places with similar tasks in Tartu and Jõhvi, the draft proposes that the tasks of Tartu detention centre be transferred to Tartu prison and the tasks of Jõhvi detention centre to Viru prison from 11 January 2021, with the necessary costs being transferred from the budget of the Police and Border Guard Board to the budget of the Ministry of Justice. According to an inter-ministerial agreement, the Ministry of Justice will not take over and will not detain deputies who are expelled and subject to disciplinary arrest. Their detention must continue to be ensured by the Police and Border Guard Board using its system of detention facilities. [As a result of this amendment], 221 places in Estonia would disappear from 64 of these in Tartu and 157 in Jõhvi, and there would be a significant reduction in the share of the unavoidable fixed costs associated with their maintenance, which would have to be largely borne even in the situation where the number of detention houses is very low. The PBA will release the resources of staff involved in the provision of detention services, who until now worked in Tartu and Jõhvi detention houses. In order to make changes, the following laws need to be supplemented: the Prisoning Act, the Penal Code, the Law on Orders, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. The amendments to the Prisons Act state that the person under arrest is, for the purposes of the Prisons Act, both a person in custody and a person in custody in prison. According to the wording currently in force, only the person holding the detention in the holding is to be considered as the subject of the arrest. The amendments provide that the detention of a person detained or subjected to compulsory arrest for a maximum of 48 hours, as well as of a person sobered in a drunken state under the Law on Law Enforcement, shall be subject to the provisions on arrest and detention laid down by the provisions laid down in the Prisons Act. Thus, if the Prisoner Act only states 'under arrest', this regulation applies both to the guilty person who has been convicted of wrongdoing and to other persons who can be detained in the future, in addition to the detention facility, in prison. If these additional persons are to be distinguished, it is specifically prescribed in the Prison Act. According to § 86 (7) of the Prisons Act, the dactyloscopy of the members of the Defence Forces who are responsible for disciplinary arrests is not carried out and DNA samples are not taken from them. The proposed amendments to the bill also include a sobered-up person, a person detained for up to 48 hours and a person subject to compulsory delivery, among such persons. The provisions on the execution of the arrested person and of the remanding shall apply to the detention of a suspect who has been detained in prison with the special features laid down in the Prisoning Act. For example, sentenced persons who have been arrested in prison in accordance with § 217 of the Code of Criminal Procedure are not subject to § 93 (2) and (8), § 98 and § 104 (2) and (3) of the Prisons Act. Thus, the opening of an internal person's account and the issuing of a statement of detention in prison, as well as the receipt of packages and the obligation for a prison service officer to notify the investigator or prosecutor in criminal proceedings three days before the expiry of the period of detention, are excluded. The release of a person detained as suspect must be effected without delay if the procedural steps have been carried out and there are no grounds for arresting the person. If the prosecutor's office ascertains the need for arrest, he shall draw up an application for arrest and arrange for the detention of the detained person to be served with the investigating judge within 48 hours of being apprehended. Paragraph 2 (1) and (2) of the draft law sets out the elements of the offence in Section 3 of Chapter 18 of the Penal Code. § 3 6 of the draft law regulates the law on law enforcement, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Enforcement Procedure and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. The changes made are due to the need to introduce the concept of prison into the law in addition to the detention houses. The law is intended to enter into force on 21 December 2020. By the time of the actual takeover of the functions of the Detention Centre, 11 January 2021 has been agreed. The time between entry into force and transposition is foreseen for IT developments, as well as for amending and adopting implementing acts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U216	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions too. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U217	Hello! Good Minister, thank you for your presentation. I remember how we asked the Commission about money and talked about the costs involved in this matter of what the benefits of the state are and what the damage is, i.e. how much money is spent. And then I found out that, for some EUR 200000, there are one-off costs in the state budget. But I didn't ask you about the EUR 800,000 they're taking from the Home Office. Is this already reflected in the state budget, the EUR 800000 by which the Ministry's budget is reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U218	Yes, we have an agreement with the Ministry of the Interior, and in next year's state budget, I also understand that the Ministry of Justice's budget will increase in this amount. This money will be made available to the prison service to cover staff costs. This previous amount of money, this concerns further necessary changes, these are some constructional activities by Riigi Kinnisvara AS or the same IT improvements that I mentioned here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U219	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U220	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I have the simple question: do these two prisons have enough room today to accommodate the detainees, or do they have to build more buildings?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U221	No, we're not gonna expand the prison, there's plenty of room in the prison. After all, in the long run, the plan is for prisoners to be housed alone in the chambers. Today we have not yet reached this point everywhere, but in the last ten years, the number of prisoners in our prisons has decreased by about 1,000. It has been a year-on-year perspective of a decline in the number of prisoners, and it has also provided an opportunity to place residents in prison rooms.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U222	Thank you very much, Minister. No more questions for you. Now I am asking for Kert Kingo, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as the Commission's co-rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U223	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft of this law, the amendment of the Prisons Act and the related amendment of other laws (transfer of the functions of the Detention House) 275 was discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 27 October. In addition to the members of the committee, the Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg, Priit Post, Head of the Department of Penal Enforcement of the Ministry of Justice, Viorica Tchaikovsky, Head of the Legal and Development Service of the Ministry of Justice, and Einar Hillep, Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice were invited as guests. This draft is not related to the programme of action of the Government of the Republic. The draft is compatible with European Union law. The draft was sent to various stakeholders for coordination and a public consultation was launched. These interest groups included the Supreme Court, the Chancellor of Justice, the Estonian Bar Association, the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators, and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities. The Supreme Court and the Chancellor of Justice expressed their views. I will give a brief overview of what took place in the Commission in the context of the debate on this draft. As a member of the Commission, I mentioned first of all that there are large areas in prisons, and if, for example, at night, a drunk driver has been brought to the sobering house, who is the subject of urgent proceedings in the morning, then it is necessary for the criminal police to act quickly to put together materials, to take a drunk driver from the sobering house and to go to court immediately. In prison, it is necessary, inter alia, to prepare and record in advance documents with the person in custody or in the sobering house for the purpose of carrying out these activities. I marked it, and I said, "I can't imagine how the rapid operation of the sobering and detention facility would fit the pace of the prison." Priit Post, a representative of the Ministry of Justice, replied that he did not see any major differences between the detention centre and the prison. If it is possible to process documents quickly in the detention centre, it is also possible to do so in prison. He pointed out that modern video solutions could be used for this purpose. Then I had another question. As far as I am aware, for example, there was a group of murders in one of the buildings in Tartu, or a group of serious crimes against persons, who needed to constantly question the persons present at the detention centre. A list of customers in the sobering house was sent to this working group every morning so that the investigators could see whether there were any pending persons on the list, such as anyone wanted. This system worked very well. Since there was a direct contact in the same house, it was immediately possible to take other steps and transfer the person to the detention centre under § 217 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I note that this paragraph regulates detention as a suspect for 48 hours. However, if the sobering and seizure house has a few kilometres apart, there may be a situation where the client of a sobering house wanted for a number of crimes is released in the morning from the sobering house and then needs to be looked for again. Priit Post, a representative of the Ministry of Justice, replied that, even after 11 January, the police would take persons to prison and that the police would be obliged to identify them. You need to be aware of the identity of the persons transferred to prison. As far as he knows, police officers are using a database containing wanted persons at the moment of identification. Urve Tiidus asked how many independent detention houses are left in Estonia and whether monetary victory is achieved in connection with the release of the premises. Minister Raivo Aeg replied that the Ministry of the Interior's request was to save resources. In the case of detention facilities, all maintenance costs are incurred in respect of the buildings, which, as a result of the draft, would be avoided in the future, as the prison will not be expanded. Prison utilities don't change. Police officers working in detention facilities do not transfer to the prison service in full, and the available resources can be used for other purposes, according to qualifications. Toomas Kivimägi said that at the beginning it seemed that the draft simply changed the subordinates and asked whether the activities of the detention houses were fully moving to the prison territory and what was the main motive of the draft, as the discussion and the problems highlighted by Kert Kingo revealed that large resources would not be saved. Minister Raivo Aeg replied that when the bill was adopted, 221 detention places would disappear in Estonia. There would be a significant reduction in the unavoidable fixed costs of their maintenance, which would have to be borne to a large extent even if the number of detention houses was very low. Einar Hillep, as well as the representative of the Ministry of Justice, added that, as the lease agreement for the Tartu Detention Centre ends, the building of a new impound building would otherwise have to start. According to the Ministry of the Interior, the construction of the Tallinn Detention Centre cost approximately 15 million euros. If simply the building were to be adapted, it would cost around EUR 7 to 8 million. Toomas Kivimägi found that this concentration is reasonable in the principle, but provided that it would be useful. He pointed out that there would be no savings if the Ministry of the Interior's expenses were simply passed on to the Ministry of Justice. Minister Raivo Aeg replied that the Ministry of the Interior's costs were indeed decreasing, but the Ministry of Justice's costs were increasing as the Ministry of Justice had to ensure that the service was available. Saving takes place primarily on the maintenance of real estate services. Commissioner Paul Puustusmaa wanted to know more about the costs associated with this change. His question was answered by Minister Raivo Aeg that the Ministry of Justice's budget for 2021 comes from the Ministry of the Interior to EUR 800000, which concerns additional payroll for officials and medical staff, together with employer's taxes. One-off expenditure will be charged to the 2020 budget, an additional budget. The Commission decided to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 25 November and Kert Kingo as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U224	Thank you, dear waitress. Urve Tiidus has a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U225	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, You have highlighted the debate that has arisen in the Commission's sitting, and that is why I am asking. Were the answers given by the ministry officials to your logistics questions [were you satisfactory], were you satisfied with these answers, and this subject will fall away or how about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U226	Thank you for your question. As I represent the Commission at the moment, I cannot express my personal opinion. However, from the Commission's hearing, it seemed that these discussions would continue. The representatives of the Ministry also noted that there are points, issues that need to be corrected and clarified. I guess that will be the subject of our next debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U227	Thank you very much. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to participate in the negotiations? There doesn't seem to be a wish. We have the commission's proposal to finish the first reading of draft 275. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 25 November at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U228	Let's move on to the next item. This is a draft of the Riigikogu's decision of the Government of the Republic to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian state during the French military operation Barkhane Mali. 263 I don't know if I pronounced that name right or not, the minister can be corrected. Minister Jüri Luige here for the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U229	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will bring a series of mandates before you. Every year we analyse and confirm mandates for Estonian Defence Forces units sent to different parts of the world. I'm just saying, for starters, as an introduction, because the line of drafts we are reviewing at first reading is quite long, that we are applying for a mandate for ten operations in six different regions. These mandates are divided into real operations on the one hand, and on the other hand [are related to the fact that], in accordance with our international commitments, we need to keep certain units in readiness that we will not send out unless in the event of a crisis alone. But going to a specific mission, we're talking about Operation Barkhane Mali. This is a French-led military operation. Estonia considers this operation to be very politically important for the following reasons. Firstly, we can thus demonstrate our understanding of the 360-degree security approach. This is not only about what is important to our allies in the East, but we must also participate in operations to the south. This is particularly important, of course, for NATO and the southern wing of the European Union. The fact that it allows us to fight or participate in a stabilisation operation is also very important. It is precisely in the countries of origin that we want to act to prevent terrorists from arriving in Europe, illegal immigration, human trafficking, etc. Our men and women are now in Mali for surgery. Next year, we intend to reduce the limit of this mandate, which we ask of the Riigikogu, from 95 Defence Forces to 75 Defence Forces. This is because we are reducing somewhat the size of the so-called'special operations unit', we are reducing the number of special operators. It is simply linked to the specific nature of the operation, the specific nature of the mission. The plan is to send, on the one hand, an infantry team for the general mission of Barkhane dealing with defence, base protection, patrolling the base's immediate vicinity and rapid response in emergency situations, located on a large Gao military base, and, on the other hand, special operators charged with advising Malian troops, organising tactical training, securing and supporting operations by the Malian armed forces. Speaking of more specific numbers: in the mechanised infantry group, we intend to continue with six men and women in 40 support elements, in the case of staff officers, in the case of two and in the case of special operations units. As far as cooperation with the French is concerned, it has brought us important political, including security, benefits. I recall that next year, a French company from [Estonian] British-led eFP will arrive and stay here for the whole of next year. In view of the fact that there will be two European nuclear powers, Great Britain and France, as part of the eFP next year, I think that no one has any doubt that this is quite a significant deterrent to the security of Estonia, to protect Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U230	Thank you. You have questions. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, There is certainly one [important] matter of extending the term of use of the Defence Forces. But since every medal has two sides, my question is as follows. According to President Toomas Hendrik Ilves, we are not leaving anyone behind on the battlefield either in Afghanistan under fire or later in a home where young men and women learn to live again or simply cope with post-combat stress after being seriously wounded. My question is as follows: what is your assessment as Minister of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia is acting and acting in accordance with this principle?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U232	Thank you. In my opinion, we are acting very closely on this principle. This is really extraordinarily important, because if we send our men and women on missions to areas where there is a real threat in Mali this is undoubtedly the case, then it is absolutely clear that we must ensure, for our part, all the conditions that, if anything happens, we hope that nothing will happen, then we will be able to support these people and do so later, if they need to be rehabilitated or their families helped. There are several different ways. Estonia has a whole Veterans' policy, and it has all these possibilities. They're funded. Fortunately, indeed, if we compare [the current situation] with, for example, the former mission in Helmand, the southern province of Afghanistan, where we had many casualties and injured, we are now But war is war, you can never rule out something's going to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U233	Kalle Grünthal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U234	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, On the basis of my first question, I cannot understand why, after leaving the service, the injured armed forces will be allowed to use the living space as the best social guarantee for only three years: only three years. After three years, how should a veteran who has lost his legs or hands, or who is under posttraumatic stress, cope with the loss of a dwelling? It doesn't add up to the principle that we're not leaving anyone behind on the battlefield or at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U235	Thank you. This principle is iron-proof. But, specifically, as far as three years are concerned, I have to admit that I do not know how to answer you right now. Had I known you had such an accurate question, I would have found out the answer. If you don't mind, I'll answer you later by letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U236	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Andres Metsoja, chairman of the National Defence Commission, would like to be the second waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U237	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, allow me, on behalf of the National Defence Committee, to congratulate our defence foundation, the Defence League, today's anniversary, and to wish all these men-women-young people success and strength in organising and leading the life of one of Estonia's vital organisations to ensure Estonia's independence and sovereignty. Undoubtedly, sharing the burden with our allies is also crucial. And indeed, you have before you a draft decision relating to the mission to Barkhane Mali. The Minister has already said an important part, I would just like to add that the conflict in Northern Mali began in 2012 and Operation Barkhane was launched on 1 August 2014 as the French's largest foreign military operation. In the context of Estonia, the Riigikogu has given a mandate on the basis of its decision [to participate in the mission] in August 2018 and the plan is to move forward with this mission. This draft decision has been discussed and reviewed by the Commission on two occasions. The first meeting took place on 20 October as a meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs at the General Staff of the Defence Forces, where Major General Indrek Sirel, Deputy Commander of the Defence Forces, and Colonel Andrus Merilo, Chief of the Operational Department of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, gave an overview of the activities taking place in the areas of foreign operations involving the Defence Forces. On 26 October, the National Defence Committee only discussed with its committee, and no longer with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Kadi Silde, Deputy Chancellor of Defence of the Ministry of Defence, Head of the Policy Planning Department Tuuli Duneton and other officials of the Ministry, other issues concerning this draft. Let us mention here the important issues that still accompany the mandate for missions. The task of this mission is to defend troops, more specifically to protect the base, patrol and respond in emergency situations near the base. The mission of Barkhane is contributed by France, Estonia and five countries in the Sahel region. Barkhane is also supported by Canada, the United Kingdom, the United States, Denmark and the Czech Republic. This mission will cost the Estonian state 6.17 million euros, which will be covered by the budget of the Ministry of Defence's administration, i.e. this 2%, which we are talking about all the time in this hall. The National Defence Committee also took procedural decisions. On 26 October, the Commission decided by consensus to appoint me rapporteur and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's sitting for the first reading. In addition, the Commission, once again by consensus, decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the first reading of the draft decision and to set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 23 November at 15.00. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U238	Thank you. Peter Ernits, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U239	Good manager! Good waitress! Perhaps I do not have accurate information, but I ask this question: is this mission to support Colonel Assimi Goita, the leader of the junta who came to power after the Malian coup, or is that not the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U240	As the Minister has already mentioned, the purpose of this mission is to prevent and eliminate the threat of terrorism, to prevent immigration, in a sense to keep or level it, and to fight against gross trafficking in human beings. All of this concerning the political issues in Africa, let us say that I cannot give you detailed answers on who is on whose side. Often, the situation in this country is so difficult that it is quite difficult to understand. But it is clear that the purpose of the intervention of the mission or the transfer of the mission to Africa is to ensure that it is managed in such a way that terrorist organisations are not able to carry out, on a daily basis, the killing of the objectives of statehood.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U241	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U242	Thank you. I'm gonna keep going a little bit. We need to maintain good relations with the French, and I like it. But Mali is not a French state, but Colonel Goita, the leader of the junta, is the current principal leader of this country. I ask you this: does the current leader of this country like us to send our troops to his country?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U243	Thank you for your question. As far as I can tell, the Malian troops are working in cooperation with the international operation, and there is no dissent or division in this sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U244	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U245	Thank you. Good waitress! If you say that the situation in this African country is so complicated that it is difficult to understand, how can you convince us that we know enough about this situation to vote in favour of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U246	Thank you. Good Reuben Kaalep! I would like to remind you that this is a draft coalition, and, as I recall, you also attended this meeting in your Committee on Foreign Affairs, where we were introduced to this draft. I dare say that the many elected and appointed persons who deal with conflict-related issues, either in the context of NATO or in the context of allied relations, must be trusted. No member of the Riigikogu can undoubtedly be all-knowing in this Parliamentary Chamber, but must collect their information from organized sources, and that is what we have tried to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U247	Thank you very much. No more questions for you, dear waitress. It is possible to open negotiations, but there is no desire for political group representatives to participate in the negotiations. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 263 be completed, and the first reading is completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 3 p.m. on 23 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U248	The next item is the first reading of draft 264 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon' presented by the Government of the Republic. I'd like the Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige to be here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U249	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The government will present to you a draft decision on our participation in the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, as part of UNIFIL. The operation involves South Lebanon and mainly deals with peace-building at the Lebanese-Israel border. There is action on the Lebanese side in South Lebanon, which is dominated by Hezbollah, and one of the conditions for the withdrawal of [Israel] during the Lebanese-Israeli conflict was that peacekeeping forces would be deployed in the region. Estonia has participated very powerfully in UNIFIL in 1996-1997 when we contributed to it with 135 members of the Defence Forces. From 2015 to 2018, we joined a group of Finnish and Irish joint battalions. But now we're sending in a staff officer, because the opportunities to participate in it so far have fallen away because the mission has been restructured. For example, Finland left [the Joint Battalion], replacing it with a Rapid Response Battalion of which they did not need other countries. So right now, we're in place quite symbolically, with one of the staff officers. Just in case, we're applying for a mandate for three members of the Defence Forces. And, of course, in spite of our small contribution, this is important because we are members of the UN Security Council from 2020 to 2021 and this is an important operation for the UN Security Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U250	Kalle Grünthal, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U251	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, A house has been built in Tallinn on Mäealu Street for the veterans of the Defence Forces, where even soldiers who have lost their legs have even disabled them. Unfortunately, the veterans were excluded from their residence by raising their rent. The initial price of EUR 6 per square metre finally reached EUR 60, almost equal to the market price. I ask you why and how it became possible that the injured veterans would be forced out of the military house by raising the rent. Is it really more important for the Ministry of Defence than for soldiers who defend Estonia's interests where we send them from this Riigikogu hall on the basis of the permission given? I would like to hope that you are aware of this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U252	As has been said, the soldier is very important to us, as is the veteran policy. But, as I said, your questions are extremely detailed, they concern specific houses and rents. Honestly, I don't know how to answer them. I would like to repeat that I am very happy to reply in writing to you. These are, of course, extremely important issues, of which there is no doubt.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U253	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm gonna ask Madis Milling, member of the National Defence Commission, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U254	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, in the hall and in the offices behind the screens! The Minister of Defence presented the content of this draft very thoroughly; I have no point in repeating it. But to broaden my horizons, I will add some historical facts about the mission of UNIFIL in Lebanon. The mission started with UN Security Council Resolutions in 1978. Today, as of September 8, there are 10344 peacekeepers from 45 countries in Lebanon, the biggest contributors being Indonesia and Italy. So this is a very important international mission. But now what happened in the Commission. Like the previous draft, the National Defence Committee discussed this draft before sending it to first reading at its meeting on 26 October. At this meeting, Vice Chancellor of Defence of the Ministry of Defence Kadi Silde, Head of the Political Planning Department Tuuli Duneton and other ministerial officials took part as representatives of the draft. There was also a joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs on 20 October at the General Staff of the Defence Forces, where we received a comprehensive overview of all foreign missions of the Defence Forces. The procedure. At its meeting on 26 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint a speaker of the committee to act as rapporteur and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The committee also decided to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 3 p.m. on 23 November. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U255	Thank you very much. No questions for you. Thanks again! Is there a wish to open negotiations? There is no wish to open negotiations. The commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 264, with no other proposals. Consequently, the first reading is closed and the deadline for submitting amendments is 23 November at 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U256	Let us look at the next item. This is an extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and in the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali, draft 265. For the first reading, please, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U257	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Our contribution to Mali is not limited to a French-led operation, but we are involved in two other international operations. One is the European Union Advisory Mission, whose official name is EUTM Mali (EU Training Mission in Mali), in which we participate with two staff officers and four training instructors. The second is the UN mission to MINUSMA, in which we somewhat reduce our participation from ten to five. We really have two staff officers working there right now. Mali is an interesting country in this sense that, unlike some other Sahel countries, it is very open to international aid and international support. Indeed, the new Transitional Government has declared that they will continue to cooperate with international forces in exactly the same way as has been done so far. And, of course, such advisory missions will contribute to the hope that Mali will eventually be able to guarantee its own security. EUTM Mali is also an important mission in the sense that it is one of such a serious, comprehensive joint European Union mission. While there is often a search for ways for the European Union to act together in crisis management, EUTM Mali is just one of these successful missions. The United Nations stabilisation mission MINUSMA has a very broad reach. On the one hand, it is a military mission, but on the other hand, MINUSMA also deals with agriculture, development aid and many other issues that are important for Mali's stability. As has been said, Mali is one of the major and important countries in the Sahel region. If you look at these international, say, criminal trades and other movements, particularly as regards smuggling, but also trafficking in human beings, then, as we move up from West Africa, Mali is one bottleneck in which the international community can actually be quite effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U258	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U259	Thank you, Mr President. I'm coming back to the other side of that coin. I have spoken to many veterans, and they have all confirmed, as one mouth has said, that the main problem for veterans is not only physical injuries but also post-traumatic stress, which will remain to send them for the rest of their lives if it is not treated. One of the Afghan veterans, my very good acquaintance, told me how, over and over a certain period of time, he would remember and see a partner torn in half beside him, and that he could smell the characteristic smell of this event. Two of his comrades have committed suicide. One shot himself, the other jumped in front of the train. Do you think the psychological assistance given to veterans is good?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U260	Thank you. I say at the beginning, just in case, that colleagues informed me that the answers to a large number of questions concerning veteran policy, which you also asked in the Committee on National Defence, have already been sent to the Commission in quite detailed form. We sent them to the chairman of the committee, but obviously this letter has not yet reached you. I'm sure he will. And if something needs to be improved, we will. As far as psychological assistance is concerned, this is what we consider to be extremely important. Once again, veteran policy has one such clear dimension: the Ministry of Defence finances psychological and, if necessary, psychiatric assistance regarding the rehabilitation of veterans. Indeed, there has been a series of suicides among veterans. They are made for various reasons, some related to posttraumatic stress, some related to other problems and problems in life. But this is a very serious issue that I am sure we are dealing with. Our partners are veteran organisations, which I think represent the interests of their members very well. I cannot say anything about the specific veteran you are talking about, but in general, we have very good and very busy cooperation and contact with organisations within the framework of the Veteran Policy. I would ask that if you have a particular person, you referred to a couple of persons on various issues here, then ask them to send a letter directly to my name. If there are any problems, of course we'll deal with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U261	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U262	Thank you, Mr President, for giving the floor. Dear waitress, In fact, the idea is that in real life psychological counseling takes place a little differently than it looks on paper. Soldiers from the mission gather in one room and then a psychologist woman asks if anyone has a problem or if someone needs advice. Of course, no soldier is going to say that there is something wrong with me, especially if there is such a nice woman in front of him. But my proposal is basically that it is not possible to use mission soldiers as psychologists who would have been trained accordingly. They know it in depth, they've been through it all in their lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U263	I can look into it, but of course it should be taken into account that both psychological and psychiatric counselling still requires special preparation. As you know, the psychological dimension in cooperation with the Defence Forces Academy and the University of Tartu is very well developed in the Estonian defence area. The problem of post-traumatic stress in combat is far from something we would not have dealt with. In this sense, I believe that we can still provide adequate assistance. If a suicide occurs, of course, it is clear that the aid was not sufficient or that there were other reasons for it. But we're really doing the best we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U264	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U265	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will ask the question of this specific draft for a change. In the case of the previous draft of Mali, the members of the Riigikogu learned that this is a cooperation with the French and that the result of this cooperation is to be measured by the presence of the French contingent in Estonia. In the case of this bill, can you tell us which countries we are working with on this mission? You can't really ask about some sort of result in this bill, is it? It's not a question of reputation. But what are the main countries of cooperation for this mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U266	As for this headquarters, where our only officer is, if I'm not wrong now, this headquarters is run by an Irishman. But this is a multinational staff and the main advantage of [this mission] is that we can participate in the UN's international peacekeeping process. Let me also give you an interesting factual example. For example, UNIFIL staff officers are able to cross the border on Israel's side, bearing this UNIFIL mark, figuratively speaking, while for all other people this border is absolutely closed. There may be a few passageways in there, but the rest of the area is all thickly mined. UNIFIL is actually the side that everyone generally trusts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U267	Thank you. No further questions. Jaak Juske, member of the National Defence Commission, as the second waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U268	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Minister said, this draft concerns two Defence Forces missions which began in 2013 in Mali. Perhaps what the Minister said could be added to the fact that, on the first mission, the European Union's training mission in the country of Mali is attended by a total of 28 European countries, 22 of which belong to the European Union. And on the second mission, the United Nations peacekeeping mission MINUSMA was attended by a total of over 15,000 people, including military personnel of 12,000, as of August this year. We can see that there is a very large circle of European and non-European countries involved in both missions. As has already been said, the Committee on National Defence discussed this draft with the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 20 October at the General Staff of the Defence Forces, where a comprehensive overview of our missions was received. The National Defence Committee also discussed this draft before presenting it to the first reading at its meeting on 26 October, where representatives of the Ministry of Defence were present. The committee made the following procedural decisions by consensus: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu for the first reading, to propose that the Riigikogu stop the first reading of the draft and to appoint a rapporteur for the draft committee here. The Committee on National Defence also decided, by consensus at this same meeting, to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 3 p.m. on 23 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U269	Thank you. There are no questions for you. Thank you, dear waitress. Is there a wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 265 and no other proposals have been received. Thus, the first reading has been completed. The deadline for tabling amendments is 23 November at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U270	Let's move on to the next 10th item. This is the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria'. I'd like the Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige to be here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U271	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are talking about giving a mandate to the United Nations Peace Mission UNTSO. It is an old mission that was established already in 1948 and has a wide area of activity in the Middle East, namely Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon and Syria. These are unarmed military observers, and Estonia is contributing to this mission with three military observers. Why does Estonia participate in this? Again, Estonia is a member of the United Nations, a member of the United Nations Security Council. UNTSO is a historic, classical peace observation mission and its participation is an important political sign. It is a unique mission in this sense that observers have quite wide access to the Israeli border, to which no one else is easily allowed, except this mission. The mission began with the well - known events of 1948 and is still in progress. This has played an important role in increasing stability in the Middle East, of course not always successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U272	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal has a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U273	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, Either way, there is the other side of the coin: one is a mission and the other is what happens after the mission. For this we have a veteran policy that has been in place since 2012, which I believe is outdated and urgently needs to be updated. I have a question about whether it is time to start thinking about changing the veteran policy system, taking as a basis and example the system used in both Britain and Norway, a system where there are professional associations of defence forces who organise normal social guarantees for veterans.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U274	Thank you. I must admit that your system in these countries is not familiar to me, but since you have come up with this idea in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, I will have it examined. Surely there are some good ideas that we could take over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U275	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Johannes Kerdi, Member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a Commission waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U276	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the following to say about the 266 draft. On the basis of the draft, until the end of 2021, the deadline for the use of six members of the Defence Forces in UN-led peacekeeping missions in UNTSO Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria will be extended. The military observation mission mentioned in the draft is based on UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 1948. Estonian Defence Forces have participated in this mission as military observers and staff officers since 1997. The UNTSO mission is a United Nations observation mission. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace and peace in crisis areas. Estonia is actively participating in UN missions, in line with our foreign and security policy decision to increase visibility in the UN. Participation in external missions is one of the means of implementing a defence policy. The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 26 October, where the draft and related presentation was presented by Deputy Secretary-General of Defence of the Ministry of Defence Kadi Silde and Head of Political Planning Department Tuuli Duneton and other ministerial officials. At the joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs held on 20 October at the General Staff of the Defence Forces, Major General Indrek Sirel, Deputy Commander of the Defence Forces, and Colonel Andrus Merilo, Chief of the Operational Department of the General Staff of the Defence Forces, both committees were briefed by Colonel Andrus Merilo on the developments in the international missions of the Estonian Defence Forces and the preparations of the Defence Forces to continue the UNTSO mission. At the meeting of 26 October, the National Defence Committee decided unanimously to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading of today's sitting and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. I was appointed a waitress for the National Defence Commission. In addition, the Committee on National Defence unanimously decided to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set, including 23 November at 15. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U277	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Is there a desire to negotiate? There is no wish to negotiate on behalf of the political groups. The commission has proposed to close the first reading of draft 266, and no other proposals have been received. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 23 November at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U278	We will take the following 11th item on the agenda: Extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the international military operation Inherent Resolve, first reading 267. Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U279	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are talking about an American-led operation called Inhenent Resolve, whose main task is to fight ISIL in Iraq. The Americans themselves are active in the same operation in Syria. We don't operate in Syria, we're only in Iraq. Basically, there are two sides to this mission. One part is counselling, the Estonian team is part of this advisory unit. Secondly, there is also a battle mission within Inherent Resolve, in which we do not participate. We propose that the Riigikogu reduce the mandate given to us from 20 to 10. The reason is that the Americans, by taking a guideline from President Donald Trump, have decided to assign a number of tasks to NATO and to reduce their team. Therefore, as we are also engaged in the NATO mission, we are reducing the necessary mandate for Inhenent Resolve, led by the Americans. We are talking about participating with a senior officer and discussing the deployment of a training team of four in Iraq. All of this is a bit stretching, and the reason is largely because the COVID has made it harder for instructors and advisors there, so our mentors can't get into the bases and we can't get out of the bases. In fact, the entire Inherent Resolve team, with the exception of the staff officer, has been temporarily moved to Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U280	Thank you. You have a question. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U281	Thank you, Mr President. I was very pleased to hear when I asked my question, in which I spoke of a veteran who is suffering from post-traumatic stress, and you said, "Let him write to you, you will help this man." I was very happy to hear that. The website of the Defence Forces states that there will be over 3100 veterans in Estonia in 2020. Of these, 160, were permanently injured in missions 40, and 11 were killed in missions. Doesn't it seem to you, in solving this question, that why do I have to bombard you with these questions to help the mission soldiers if there is a ministry under your command? Please give orders to help these men!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U282	I think that your question is absolutely unfair. The Ministry of Defence has been working on a very comprehensive veteran policy in my time and long before me. I'm sure there are people who are missing something, that's what we're dealing with specifically. But it's extremely unfair of you to say that we have 3,000 veterans and the Department of Defense doesn't deal with them. I categorically protest against it. If you have any specific questions about veteran policy, please present them. One letter has already been sent, it's coming to you, maybe it can be delivered right now. And once again, we are ready to respond to your other letters. You're welcome to the Department of Defense to discuss veteran policy. We have special people who only do that. Your concern is very clear and constructive to me, but I do not think your assessment is fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U283	Kalle Grünthal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U284	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have a very simple question: can those soldiers who need help turn to you in writing, as you suggested to a veteran?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U285	Thank you. Of course. Anyone who has any issues on this subject can come directly to me, write in my name. We are sending our men and women to crisis areas and, of course, we expect that we will do everything we can to make them feel secure in the sense of 'background'. We owe it to them. So on this point, I absolutely agree with you. It is very welcome to write all those who have had some problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U286	Thank you. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Mr Ants Laaneots, Member of the Commission, to act as rapporteur for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U287	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As already mentioned here, including on 20 October, a joint departure session of the National Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee took place at the General Command of the Defence Forces, where representatives of the Defence Forces gave us an overview of the tasks taking place in the mission areas, of the Estonian contingent there, and of the need to confirm the corresponding draft laws to participate in them in the next year, 2021. The National Defence Committee discussed this draft a little later, at its meeting on 26 October, before submitting it to first reading. The Minister of Defence gave you a comprehensive overview of the operation in Iraq and the planned contribution of Estonia. It is important to note that Estonia is adapting its participation in this operation compared to this year, reducing its membership from 20 members of the Defence Forces to 10 members of the Defence Forces. Depending on the situation, Estonia intends initially to contribute to the operation in the next year, 2021, with a staff officer and a training team of four. Due to the state of training of the Iraqi military and the possible need to adjust the focus of the operation in relation to the corona virus pandemic in that country, the maximum number of members of the Defence Forces set out in the draft, I have already mentioned that this is 10 Defence Forces members of Estonia's need to contribute further and flexibly to the operation. In so doing, the Estonian Defence Forces do not participate in this particularly in military operations on the territory of Syria. Procedural decisions. At the meeting of 26 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint me rapporteur for this draft and to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu meeting on 19 November for the first reading. In addition, the committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft decision be terminated and to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 3 p.m. on 23 November. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U288	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Is there a wish to open negotiations? There is no wish to open negotiations. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 267, and no other proposals have been received. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 23 November at 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U289	Next, the 12th item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the readiness units of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation." Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U290	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! With regard to participation in a number of NATO rapid response and readiness units, we bring to you a draft decision of the Riigikogu, which is already about giving a mandate for their activities, because it is clear that when it comes to the preparedness unit, it needs to be prepared literally. We're talking about two separate units. One is the NATO Rapid Response Unit NRF, which was set up at the Prague Summit, a historic summit where Estonia was invited to join NATO. In addition, NATO's readiness initiative was established in London last December. The United States pointed out that despite the existence of the NRF, its response time is long enough and that there are not many real units that are clearly attached to one or another of the NRF components, and they proposed that a NATO readiness initiative, or NRI, be created separately from the real ones. We intend to contribute to the NRF with 70 members of the Defence Forces, including a mine hunter, a staff officer and a special operations unit. It's all about the fact that we've been asked for it. We are not making them up ourselves, but these are specific power gaps that we have been asked to fill. We're betting on an armored infantry company, we're talking about up to 200 militias. So it's the kind of preparation initiative. Of course, it is vital for Estonia that NATO has the capacity to react as quickly as possible, taking into account everything that concerns Estonia's protection and Article 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U291	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, vice-chairman of the National Defence Commission, as the second waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U292	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! As with all previous draft missions, this was discussed at two meetings of the Commission, on 20 October and 26 October. The Minister has already given a sufficiently detailed overview of the draft, but I will clarify a few more things. The entire NRF has 40,000 members of the Defence Forces and the NRI includes 30 mechanised battalions, 30 air squadrons and 30 battleships. It is also important to note that the use of the NRF and NRI is decided unanimously by the NATO Council, which means that the NRF can only be used with the consent of Estonia. I'll add where the NRF has been used and what the main operations have been. In principle, the NRF can be used as a transfer to operational areas both to prevent conflicts and to prevent their escalation, as well as to use in humanitarian aid operations. The consequences of the earthquake in Hurricane Katrina and Pakistan can be seen as an example. I have nothing more to add here than the procedural decisions of the National Defence Committee. At its meeting on 26 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The committee also decided to propose to the President of the Riigikogu the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft, including 23 November at 3 p.m., and, of course, to appoint me rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U293	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are no questions and there is no wish for negotiations. We have the commission's proposal to close the first reading of draft 268; there are no other proposals. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 23 November at 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U294	Let's take the next item on item 13. This is the first reading of draft 269 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the implementation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations'. Please, Mr. Secretary of Defense!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U295	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is a mandate that has been given to the Defence Forces for years to contribute to an operation with 50 members of the Defence Forces, which is completely unexpected and which may require a rapid response in an escalating situation. We do not have a mandate because, for example, NATO's response forces will not be launched, to which you will immediately discuss and which we introduced here before. This is an 'open mandate', an exception mandate, it is always given to us to use in extreme situations. We are not talking about a standard situation where we can come calmly before the Riigikogu to discuss this mandate, and you can decide to grant it. I say so much that perhaps one of the reasons why the Riigikogu has always given us this mandate is that we have practically never used it. Now, in March of this year, the European Union redesigned its Mediterranean operation Sophia and renamed it Irini, which began to tackle the illegal transfer of weapons to Libya. Since this was indeed done at an extraordinarily high speed, one mission was essentially simply renamed as a second, then our only sailor who was there urgently needed a new mandate. According to this procedure, the government made a decision, and the President gave its consent, we informed the National Defence Committee, and we took this opportunity for one person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U296	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no questions for you. I'd like to ask Leo Kunnas, a member of the National Defence Commission, as a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U297	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At the very beginning, I will take this opportunity to wish my comrades the Defence League a good anniversary, because I myself am a founding member of the Defence League. The Minister for Defence spoke very thoroughly about this mandate. I did the same thing last year when I opened it up a little bit wider. Now it's just bill number two and year number two, but everything else is the same. What I can say is yes, this year the Government of the Republic needed this mandate. It was used, and it was used in a very responsible manner. So we have no reason not to trust the government. If this mandate is needed next year, it will be used again responsibly. The preparation of this draft was similar to all the other drafts, which I will not talk about further. I shall sum up the procedural decisions. At its meeting on 26 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to invite the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the session of the Riigikogu on 11 November and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. I was appointed rapporteur for the draft. At the same meeting, the National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 15.00 on 23 November 2020. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U298	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Is there a wish to open negotiations? That's not what you want. In that case, we have a proposal from the commission to conclude the first reading of draft 269. There are no other proposals. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 23 November at 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U299	We will look at the 14th item on the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the mission of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in Iraq' presented by the Government of the Republic. This is Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U300	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As I mentioned before in the debate on Inherent Resolve, much has been transferred or transferred from Iraq to the NATO Iraq mission NMI, or NATO Mission Iraq. There are very important allies with us, especially the US and Denmark. Denmark will assume the leading role of the NMI on 1 December this year and will act in [this role] throughout the following year. We're sending a staff officer to this mission who's still there. He will continue his work in Baghdad. We are also prepared to contribute to the joint training team of two medics in Norway, Denmark, Lithuania and Estonia, the discussions on which are currently taking place. But what is very important: in view of the situation in Iraq, Denmark has asked the three Baltic States to send a team of troops to Iraq on a rotation basis, which would be part of a Danish company. And that's what we'll do if you decide that. From June to December 2021, there would be a 36-person military unit in Iraq responsible for short-term protection of training instructors in Baghdad. We're creating this unit on the basis of the Defence League, but we're taking these defence allies into active service for the duration of this operation. And by taking advantage of the opportunity, colleagues have already mentioned it, I would also like to congratulate the Defence League on its birthday!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U301	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I now ask Anneli Oti, member of the National Defence Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U302	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before sending it to first reading at its meeting on 26 October. On 20 October, a joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs took place at the General Staff of the Defence Forces, where representatives of the Defence Forces gave an overview of what was happening in the missions' areas. The Minister of Defence, who has just spoken, gave a comprehensive overview of the operation and the planned contribution of Estonia. It is important to note that Estonia will significantly increase its contribution from 5 to 40 people compared to this year. The next year, it is planned to deploy a staff officer and Defence Forces medical team in the joint training team of Estonia, Lithuania, Norway and Denmark. On 1 December 2020, Denmark will take over the role of the operation leader from Canada, and in this context Denmark has proposed to Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia to deploy a six-month Infantry Team in Baghdad with the task of defence, namely close protection of training instructors. The contribution of the infantry team directly supports the fulfilment of Estonia's allied duties and is a natural continuation for Estonia of very good, close and long-term bilateral political and operational cooperation with Denmark. Therefore, the draft limit for the participation of the Defence Forces has been set at 40 persons, which will materialise in the second half of 2021. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 26 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint me rapporteur and to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be placed on the agenda of the session of the Riigikogu on 11 November for the first reading. In addition, the committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the first reading of the draft decision and to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting the amendments be set at 3 p.m. on 23 November. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U303	Thank you, Honorable waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 270. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including on 23 November at 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U304	Let's keep going. Today's 15th item is the first reading of draft 271 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom Expedition Forces' by the Government of the Republic. I'm requesting Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U305	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We will present to you a draft decision concerning the preparedness unit, the United Kingdom-led Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF) and participation in this contingent. It is a British political initiative that also has a very clear military component or framework. The JEF was established in 2015 in London. It includes Estonia, the Netherlands, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway and Denmark, and Finland and Sweden joined in 2017. This year we also signed a political declaration in which we see the focus of JEF, in particular, in the Baltic Sea region and the North Atlantic. Of course, this is a unit that can always be put at NATO's disposal. It is a unit that connects NATO headquarters, NATO units in all ways, etc. The reason why [JEF participation] is so important to us is that the British are very important allies to us and they have a significant military contingent in Estonia, a battalion, in our sense. That is why it is very important for us to have a framework for action with the British to allow protection planning, but also joint operations where necessary. In 2019 a major JEF exercise took place in Estonia. There has also been planning exercises and even table exercises at the level of defence ministers, so this is a necessary cooperation format for us. In 2020, we contributed to this unit with 24 members of the Defence Forces and in 2021 we will continue to contribute. Of course, if you give us a mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U306	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I'd like to ask Peeter Rahnel, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U307	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the National Defence Committee discussed this issue twice. On 20 October, a joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs took place at the General Command of the Defence Forces, where representatives of the Defence Forces gave an overview of what was happening in the mission areas. The National Defence Committee also discussed this draft at its meeting on 26 October before submitting it to the first reading. The Minister of Defence, who spoke above, gave an overview of this mission and the planned contribution of Estonia. I repeat that this draft confirms Estonia's readiness to contribute to the United Kingdom Joint Expedition Forces with up to 24 Defence Forces in 2021. Estonia will continue to contribute to its four-member team of improvised explosive devices, its three-member strategic communication team, its five-member medical team, its air-fire leader, its four-member mine-tower team and its seven-member support element. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 26 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint me rapporteur and to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft 271 be included for the first reading on the agenda of the session of the Riigikogu on 11 November. In addition, the committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft decision be terminated and to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 3 p.m. on 23 November. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U308	Thank you, Honorable waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 271. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including on 23 November at 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U309	The 16th item is the first reading of draft 273 of the Riigikogu's decision on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan. I'm requesting Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U310	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members! In this case, this is a classic major operation in Afghanistan, where, as has been said, we have suffered severe losses and contributed very strongly, both militaryly and politically. We also plan to contribute next year to the infantry team, this support element, a staff officer in the United Kingdom-led unit in Kabul Security Forces, and military police and medical personnel, as well as a demining team. In total, we have 45 members of the Defence Forces there, and we're asking for a mandate for 46 members of the Defence Forces. What am I saying? First of all, it's never quite a safe mission, but right now, unlike when we were in Helmand Province, an infantry team protects instructors in Kabul, mostly moves in the green zone. As far as the demining team in Mazar Sharif is concerned, the level of danger is certainly at a much higher level now. They are training, but, of course, the level of risk for demining teams is high. As far as the political aspect is concerned, it is very useful for us that the United Kingdom is in charge of the unit we are in, in Kabul. We're under the command of a German unit in Mazar-e Sharif, North Afghanistan. So we are working with two very important European allies and, of course, with the United States, who is the leader and coordinator of this whole thing. You have certainly heard of the discussions that, in connection with the peace agreement between the Taliban and America, the troops could start to leave step by step. At the same time, the implementation of this peace agreement has proved very difficult and, unfortunately, it is not possible to allow exactly when a greater departure will take place. Right now we're bringing in a fighter, but that's really all we can do right now. Our mission in Afghanistan will continue in the basic structure [in the same way]. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U311	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U312	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for a good overview and especially for clarifying this political aspect. But my question is technical. Could you elaborate on the composition of our mission? How big is our demining team, and how many medical and military officers do we have there? I ask because the division is clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U313	Right. As for the demining team in northern Afghanistan, we have four people there. If we go to Kabul, we have 32 in the infantry team and three in the support element, one in the staff officers, three in the military police and two in the medical team. So this is the structure of our forces there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U314	Thank you. No further questions for you. I now ask Oudekki Loone, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U315	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in the Chamber or are listening to us somewhere else! We discussed this draft at the meeting of the National Defence Committee on 26 October and, as you have already heard from other speakers, at the joint Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs on 20 October at the Defence Forces General Staff, where representatives of the Defence Forces gave an overview of what is happening in the mission area and how effective our missions are. I will not repeat the review provided by the Minister of Defence, what our contribution is and why we are there. This draft allows up to 46 Estonian Defence Forces to continue to contribute to the NATO-led advice and training mission Resolute Support Mission next year. In addition, up to 92 members of the Defence Forces may be present during the rotation period. This means that at a time when the units change, or the previous unit leaves, and the new unit arrives, the task transfer takes place, there may be up to 92 members of the Defence Forces. Procedurally, at its meeting on 26 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint me rapporteur and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of the session of the Riigikogu on 11 November for the first reading. In addition, the committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft decision be terminated and to propose to the President of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 3 p.m. on 23 November. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U316	Thank you. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 273, and that is the end. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 23 November at 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U317	We will proceed to today's last, 17th item, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Irin'. I'm requesting Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U318	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We have reached the final bill. We're talking about a fleet mission in the Mediterranean. This mission was literally created this year when Joint Operation Sophia was replaced by Operation Irini. Sophia was focused mainly on the fight against trafficking in human beings and also on terrorism, while Irin's main focus is to prevent arms being smuggled into Libya in order to comply with the UN Security Council resolution, which prohibits arms trafficking with Libya, as well as to prevent illegal oil exports, train border guards in Libya, etc. It was a very complex political negotiation in the European Union, because in reality, a large part of illegal weapons reach Libya across the Egyptian-Libya border and by sea carry weapons to the Libyan government, to the UN-recognised Libyan government, only Turkey. So this is an operation that has already created tensions with Turkey. But this is a European Union mission. And as usual, we're on missions like this. Of course, we don't have any ships or sailors there. In particular, sailors do exist, but they are sent as two staff officers to Irin's headquarters in the eternal city of Rome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U319	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions for you. I ask Uno Kaskpeit, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U320	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill allows up to six Estonian Defence Forces to contribute to the military mission of EUNAVFOR Med/Irin in 2021. By participating in the mission, Estonia fulfils its allied responsibilities arising from its membership of the European Union, and as a result, among other things, Estonia's external political visibility will increase. The National Defence Committee discussed this draft with representatives of the author at its meeting on 26 October. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu for the first reading. I was appointed rapporteur by the Commission. At the same time, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set with the consent of the President of the Riigikogu, including 23 November at 15.00.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U321	Thank you, Honorable waitress. You have questions too. Merry Aart, please! No, it wasn't. Thank you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Yes, on behalf of the Andres Metsoja Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U322	Thank you, President-in-Office. Indeed, there is a message in this Chamber and here on the floor about their draft mission or allied relations that it is like a prestige project of the Estonian state. I think it is important to stress once again that allied relations are an important foundation of Estonian national defence, and there is no way to talk about prestige, but about our security and its holistic approach. Surely one of the important risks of these missions is that our fighters may get hurt, and these issues have been addressed in one way or another today. I must say that Mr Grüntha has now received [his questions] also an answer. He has previously asked me, as Chairman of the National Defence Commission, about what specifically concerned our veterans and one specific residence on the hilltop and the official apartments of the Defence Forces there. I want to take care of this matter in this Chamber immediately so that nothing gets in the air or that this discussion does not remain for the information of just one member of the Riigikogu and the chairman or minister of the committee. In this case, as emphasised by a good member of the Riigikogu, two veterans have been explained to me as chairman of the commission that one family happened to leave for the right, more suitable living space, and the other family left or had to leave fortunately for the purpose that the family had to expect an increase. The subject has been examined and clarified. In order not to remain in the air, I considered it necessary to mention it here. But there are certainly bottlenecks in veteran policy and, to mark them, undoubtedly the right place to highlight them is this very Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-11-11_U323	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 274. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 23 November at 15. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is over and the session is closed. Thank you. See you tomorrow!
