ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Honourable ministers! We'll start our three-day briefing and attendance check. 46 members of the Riigikogu are present, 55 are missing. Today, the following members of the government participate in Question Time: Minister of the Interior Mart Helme in the role of Prime Minister, Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu. First, the pre-registered questioners get the floor, who will also have the opportunity to ask the question, and then one of the quickest members of the Riigikogu will be able to ask the floor. There are two minutes to ask the question, please, to fit the question in this two minutes! The ministers have three minutes to attend.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U2	First, Erkki Keldo asks and answers the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U3	Thank you. Good Minister of the Interior in charge of the Prime Minister! Estonia is currently in an absurd situation, where security authorities are fighting against the channels involved in hostile influence, while in Tallinn, Estonia's largest municipality, the capital city, taxpayers' money is being directed to finance these same channels and to promote propaganda. A year ago, the Riigikogu made a report on the Foreign Affairs Committee, which drew attention, among other things, to the use of hostile television channels in Estonia. The Estonian Defence Police and several experts have been referring to the same problem for years. PBK is a television channel that plays an important role in the Kremlin's targeted information and influence campaigns, which, by spreading lies and informed information attacks, serves the Kremlin's interests in general. What, though, is the central party government doing? Last year, Tallinn's support for the purchase of programmes in PBK was about EUR 540000. This year, this support increased sharply to EUR 715000. That's what my question is about. As Minister of the Interior, how do you assess the activities of the City of Tallinn and the Central Party Mayor Mikhail Kõlvart, and how does this affect the security of the Estonian state? And how do we look to our allies in the fight against Russian propaganda when the city government in our own capital orders services from these very channels?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U4	Thank you. This picture is somewhat more complicated than your essay might suggest. And I understand that the Reform Party is ready to cooperate with the Estonian Conservative People's Party in Tallinn, because in principle we have repeatedly expressed our views that the Russian information channels that operate in the Baltic states could be closed in Estonia, just as some of our southern neighbours have taken such steps. So in this sense, we are certainly in a similar position. Unfortunately, the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia should take very draconical steps to dictate to a local government how they can use their own budget. If our security authorities have consistently identified a security threat to Estonia for the specific channels you mentioned, then these security authorities should probably make a specific, clearly formulated and formally correctly fixed proposal to the Government of the Republic of Estonia, so that the largest government of Estonia does not order more advertising from these channels or otherwise participate in their activities. According to my information, such properly fixed proposals have not come from security authorities to the Government of the Republic. Since we have autonomous local authorities, I also do not see the possibility of the Ministry of the Interior interfering with their budgetary policies and their relations with the media, especially given that there is freedom of expression in Estonia. But basically, respected national ambassador, our party supports the view that the activities of these channels on the territory of the Republic of Estonia should be limited or even prohibited.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U5	Thank you. Erkki Keldo, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U6	Thank you. You have made a fine assessment of the channel and its contents, but you have failed to give an assessment of what you think of the behaviour of the government and how we look in the eyes of our allies in this case. But I also want to ask you about it. The Mayor of Tallinn, Mikhail Kõlvart, mentioned earlier, said in an interview that it was necessary for the Centre Party to go to government with EKRE and Isamaa, because thanks to EKRE and Isamaa it will be possible to maintain Russian-language education and Russian-language educational institutions. However, before the elections, you said that the transition to a single education in Estonian is one of the important promises of the EKRE. It was nice to hear that you wanted to keep your promises, but in the last vote in the Tallinn City Council, which voted on the transition to a single Estonian education in Tallinn, as far as I know, the EKRE Group was in the corpore toilet during the vote and did not vote in favour of it. Consequently, I ask again: please give an assessment of the activities of Tallinn City Government! Has EKRE withdrawn from its promise to voters, or is EKRE's new position the preservation of Russian-language education in Estonia, as Mayor Kõlvart mentioned in the interview?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U7	As far as the Speaker's statements are concerned, the Speaker is an independent political figure and can speak anything. Our own election promises have not changed. I would point out that during the long-term rule of the Reform Party, it was also impossible to switch to full Estonian-language education. Going over to the Estonian-speaking government is your election promise, as is our party's promise, which is why I once again conclude that we really have points of contact and that you seem ready to cooperate with us. I am very pleased about this because it means that it is probably possible to reach political consensus on certain issues, at least for the majority of the parties represented in this Chamber. And that, of course, is to be welcomed. As for how we look in the eyes of our allies, it is very difficult to believe that the activities of some Russian-speaking channels in the territory of the Republic of Estonia or the spread of this channel in the territory of the Republic of Estonia are a factor affecting our activities in NATO or in the European Union or in other international organisations where Estonia is in very clear positions. I don't see any problem here. I have just visited the United States and, during all the numerous meetings I had there, no one ever touched on the subject of Russian television channels or Russian propaganda. However, in all the meetings, China's topic, the 5G theme, the Huawei theme and our other security cooperation were on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In fact, according to the agenda, we expect answers from you as acting Prime Minister and not as party chairman. You are in a relatively similar position to Jüri Ratas, although he is the Prime Minister, and you are just replacing him today. When you spoke about autonomy of local governments, on the one hand, you are certainly right that local governments are autonomous in their activities. But today we also hear the answers of your partymate, and the last thing that came up is a land tax. A clear message was sent to the local authorities that if the land is assessed regularly, you would not expect it to increase your income. I'm sure we're gonna sneak you guys in. This may not be quite consistent. But as Minister of the Interior, how do you feel, which at one point is more important, either autonomy or the security of the entire country? When we talk about the city of Tallinn, the impact of such an activity on the security of Estonia as a whole is certainly greater than when the same thing happened in a small area. What's your assessment of that? Are you saying you don't see the problem in this, in the perspective? Perhaps you simply underestimate the impact of such soft action on the security of the Estonian state? How would you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U10	I will comment on this in such a way that we have repeatedly raised the issue of spreading the same Russian television broadcasts in Estonia, both during the coalition negotiations and during the coalition. We have proposed to ban them. There is no consensus in the government on this issue. We are obviously not going to break the government for this matter. If we had the same views on all issues, we would not have three political parties in the government. We have three political parties, and there are three political parties precisely because we have completely different views on many issues, such as the issues of education in Estonian, TV channels in Russian and propaganda, as well as on many other issues. But on most of the issues, we have similar positions or mutually agreed positions, and that is why I believe that this government will act productively and will not disperse. As far as security is concerned, let's look around here, have these PBK programmes really had such a devastating effect on Estonia's security that we do not have a state functioning, that we do not understand what is wrong and what is the truth? Don't you understand if Russian television channels are the source of information distorting our history? I get it! I understand, and I don't agree with that information. If I look at any Russian TV channel, let's not just talk about this channel, we have other TV channels, all sorts of NTVs and RTRs, and what they're all about, there's a show on one of them, like, how exactly is that order, 'Kremm. Putin. Novosti or whatever. I'll watch Putin talk black to white, tell you how the Poles unleashed World War II. Come on, am I stupid or should I believe that? I don't believe it! It's running down my sides, it's meant to be used internally. Poles, Lithuanians, Latvians, Estonians are not convinced by such propaganda. So let's take down some hysteria. Once again: we would like to turn off these TV channels, we would close down the translation of all Russian television channels in Estonia, our party would shut down everything. But I have a feeling that the Reform Party does not really share this view, having come up with the opinion that this is not possible, that it is difficult and does not have an effect. So who's the Pope's religion now? Is the Reform Party, which is now asking me spiteful questions, trying to give the impression that I would support Russian propaganda and Russian education? I do not support it, our party does not support it, but we understand the reality. Let's imagine a new coalition is emerging. Let's not talk about parties, let's imagine that...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U12	... then exactly as well will be agreed on some issues, some of which will simply be put under the bed. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U13	Thank you! I ask you, as members of the Riigikogu do, to stay within the time frame. It's about everyone. The subject is, of course, very interesting and everyone would like to talk more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U14	Let us go to the next question, which is posed by Katri Raik and will be answered again by the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U15	President-in-Office of the Council. Good Mr. Helme! I ask you about the future of the oil shale sector and about the fair transition in this key why the Government of the Republic does not have a common position. The members of the Government of the Republic have also expressed different views on this matter: the Prime Minister has said in this very chair that the windmills on the west coast of Estonia will guarantee Estonia's energy security in the future, and the Minister of Finance Martin Helme has stated that the oil shale sector must be given the opportunity to continue for as long as possible. I don't mean to say that we people sitting in this hall don't understand, but the people of Ida-Viru don't understand. Why does the government have no position? And the other part of my question is this: when will a unified, transparent and equally understandable position be formed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U16	Thank you for your question. Common and indivisible positions will emerge as a result of negotiations. It's a little too soon to cross somewhere. There is no clarity about the size of this transitional fund, the criteria for allocating money from this transitional fund. It is quite clear that this amount, which has been mentioned in the case of Estonia at 125 million, is bread money. This is not serious in a situation where we need to close up, profile, train people, and perhaps help people move to other areas of Estonia. We do not now know whether, in view of the objective of climate neutrality, oil shale can continue to be used to produce oil shale oil, as we have planned. We don't have clarity. This is all quite vague, and indeed at the level of the European Commission. A number of countries are even more vulnerable to the production and use of fossil fuels than Estonia. These are countries with a significantly higher population, with a significantly larger industrial sector, in particular Poland, of course, and they are currently in very sharp confrontation with the Commission on this issue in many respects. Therefore, we cannot say that somewhere here, the government of the Republic of Estonia should already have a final position and a satisfactory view of the parties involved or a firm perspective for the parties involved in this situation. It's just not right now. And that's not going to happen right now. The fact that we have different visions between the various parties is, in my opinion, a good thing. This is the basis of the dispute and the basis for shaping Estonia's positions so that we can finally achieve the best possible result for Estonia in the negotiations with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U17	Katri Raik, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U18	I can't help but say that you're scaring people that they have to move away from Ida-Viru County. Just last weekend, a survey of Statistics Estonia, which reflects the views of the people of Tartu and Narva, became public, which confirmed that people living in Narva are very pleased that they live in Narva, they are as happy as the people of Tartu that they live in Tartu. I was very pleased with the results of this study. My point, however, is that. I'm sure the government's been discussing a fair transition fund. You mentioned 125 million, but in fact this amount is still higher: with self-financing and the money coming from the Social Fund and the Regional Fund, it is just over 500 million. Do you or the government think that the eligible area for this money is only Ida-Virumaa or, more generally, Estonia? In other words, is the fair transfer fund money left in Ida-Virumaa or must it be shared with South-East Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U19	Once again, we do not have any stoned decision anywhere. If you say that the people of Ida-Virumaa should not move away from there, it was only recently, a few days ago, that I managed to briefly get to know the development monitoring fund or whatever the name of this institution is an analysis which says that real estate acquisition is a counterproductive way of doing things with a view to the future, because the future economy will be so life-changing because of the penetration of new technologies into all spheres of life that people will inevitably have to move from one place to another, go to where jobs are created, and leave where jobs are lost. People's mobility cannot be hindered by real estate ownership in places that may have been economical in their own time, but which, at the time of applying for new technologies and also climate neutrality, have become unspectible. If you ask for my position and that of our party, we are not, unlike you, climate-crazy. You are probably in a certain schizophrenic situation when you say that there is a massive and rapid warming of the climate, Estonia must switch to a climate-neutral economy, it will require huge investment, etc. We do not share this, we do not think that 20 years from now, if we do not take any very radical steps in Estonia, the Estonian people will die out because there will be no clean air and clean water. We don't think that's the case. Certainly not, and certainly not, Estonia is also the country that ultimately condemns the climate of the planet. However, we believe that it is our duty, as a country and as a government, to ensure a smooth transition for people without social cataclysms. And when the European Commission's negotiations raise our demands on climate neutrality, we will say: but then pay, my friends! Then pay, and pay more, because the money you are offering us now is not enough!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U20	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U21	Thank you. Mr. Helme! I would like to remind you that you are now the head of government on this board. You have responded to several rounds as a party leader or businessman, and as a businessman on climate issues, who is being taken away and to whom it has to be returned. Who in your government is responsible for the balancing message? I also listened to your Minister for the Environment, and I thought that, interestingly, he criticised environmental activists several times, complained about economic problems, but not once, it was one television appearance, the longer interview did not hear from him that the real climate was not a matter of itself, that humanity was not a victim of the climate, but the climate was a victim of humanity, and humanity would get it all on its own. He gets necked by wars, migration, the destruction of the living environment and the fall of living standards if he doesn't act. Tell me who's in your government talking a little bit like that instead of businessman talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U22	I did not quite understand the substance of this question. I'm not a businessman. Yeah, I've been doing some business in my life, but basically I'm not a businessman. I've said that I don't love money so much that I want to marry it. All of us need money to live, of course. But look, we're not just dealing with business here, we're still dealing with our people first and foremost. Once again: if we have a coalition made up of different parties, then we cannot assume that all parties agree one hundred percent on all matters. On the climate issue, we do not agree with one hundred percent either. We do agree that nature must be preserved and the economy must be as damaging as possible to the natural environment, both in the short term and in the long term. At the same time, we must bear in mind that our industries can adapt to it and should not collapse. This is also the legitimate expectation of the owners of the state and government. We are already seeing how, in one, in the other and in the third sectors, the country is threatened with a claim for damages if steps are indeed to be taken that make the investments already made and often made in very large sums pointless. In essence, this means that we are restricting the free market economy. But I think that in this Chamber, all people should be pro-free market economy. Maybe I'm wrong, but I still expect and hope that in this hall, there will be no snake communists, like Bernie Sanders, who would like to regulate everything, ban it and tell people exactly what they can and can't do, including in business. However, I believe and assume that free enterprise is the key to Estonia's economic success and the resulting social success. We need to move forward in a balanced way here. And I think, once again, from this point of view, it is good to have different positions in the government, because in disputes, as the ancient Greeks have said, the truth is born. And in these disputes, I hope that we will be able to find a balance point that will help businesses to move forward, so that social shocks have been avoided and that the natural environment will not be damaged in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U23	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U24	Next, Jürgen Ligi asks, says Minister Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U25	Thank you. Mr. Helme! Once again, I ask for an answer on behalf of the government, not on behalf of the EKRE. One of the great battles of this government against the Estonian state is Aidus. Your Minister of Finance even organises meetings where state supervision is under pressure, he threatens the Estonian state, I don't know, in connection with the 125-million-dollar claim on Aide. He says that the state is flogging, that's why he's doing it all, that the state is flogging the entrepreneurs. He has sent his advisor to hold a dramatic press conference to talk about the state of Estonia and had him say that he would actually want the state not to have a cent to go to court against entrepreneurs. What about this battle now? How successful has it been? Are you in the process of defeating the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U26	In fact, now we need to look at this thing a little bit wider. As I mentioned on the previous issue, entrepreneurs are concerned that the policy of the state, which in many ways is dictated from outside the Republic of Estonia in relation to the fact that we are in an international concertation where, of course, we want to be. Please do not give me any ulterior motives again, as I would like to say, Estonia must be in a golden isolation. But that means that we really do have conflict situations from time to time. And in these conflict situations, there may be such a result that companies who are not satisfied, who consider that the state has acted recklessly against them, threaten the country with claims for damages. The VKG or Viru Chemistry Group, the pharmacy businessman Margus Linnamäe and the Tandem of the ferns have recently taken part in such topics. And what can the government say about that? In this respect, the government can say that, when we are dealing with ensuring national security, we must undoubtedly give priority to this aspect. At the same time, I think that everyone in this Chamber is saying that Estonia is a rule of law, that entrepreneurs have the right to appeal to the courts if they find that they have been treated unfairly and that they have suffered economic damage. There's nothing to argue about. If companies decide to go to court, they have the right to do so, and the State will go to court and argue with them. I don't see a problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U27	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U28	Thank you. I see the problem. Businesses, of course, have the right to go to court and, of course, any national supervision and national interest are frustrating when it comes to promoting their business. But I'm actually asking why the government is fighting the country. And I asked you how far this battle is now. I can tell you, as a hint, that the country has not retreated before the government but, on the contrary, the ferns have abandoned their actions and the country has made new demands. How do you now appreciate the process in which the government fought with its country, vexed him, mocked him here two weeks ago in response to an inquiry, the Minister of Finance accused the country? But those entrepreneurs, who seem to be suffering, have not only given up their demands but have received new demands from the state. How do you assess this battle and your minister's conduct afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U29	Our minister's behavior is perfectly adequate. If we look at where these problems come from, we will see that these problems come from long-term processes that began long before this government took office. This government is now working on picking fruit. The flowers were, as we know, five years ago in the reform of the pharmacy. I also remember this as a member of the National Defence Committee in the previous Riigikogu, which started at least four years ago. We were not in the government then; we could not then have had a significant influence on these processes as a small party of the opposition. We could only express our opinion here and there. So right now we are looking for solutions in the so-called established situations. We are trying to find a solution in such a way that the state does not have to pay damages, but at the same time guarantees the security of the country, as is the case with these windmills. Finally, once again: the court decides to what extent the undertakings have infringed the terms of the contract, the extent to which the State has infringed its obligations. I imagine that when litigation begins, they will be very long, very complicated, because the state warehouse will probably have to be discussed from time to time, not only in closed sessions, but also in'saferooms'. We would like to avoid these litigations at any cost, but of course we cannot say the last word. The last word is probably left to entrepreneurs on a number of issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U30	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Although freedom to conduct a business is certainly one of the foundations for the country's economy and people's incomes to grow and prosperity to grow, we all, as citizens and as entrepreneurs, must take into account that national security and security are paramount. It's supreme in the sense that you can't play with it. And neither can any government of the Republic play by shooting itself in the leg. An example of Aid's wind farm may be a clear example of the fact that members of the government, at least some of them, tried to shoot themselves in the leg and forgot the role that is essential in this profession. The company's own activities have shown that it has waived its claim, while the State has clearly maintained its requirements in the context of security. But how do you feel about the fact that people in the service of the state, especially in the current government, are interfering with other areas of your party and, in doing so, starting to tell the country clearly? These examples were mentioned by the previous speaker and related to the wind farm, but we have seen the same in rural and fisheries. Kersti Kracht was clearly very negative at one meeting, he did not understand the position he was in. Do you think this behavior is acceptable? And you referred here to the reform of the pharmacy and to the fact that you have submitted a draft. What do you think an entrepreneur will demand from the state if it has been known in advance for five years that this law will enter into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U32	Once again: these problems have not arisen today, these problems have arisen a long time ago. These problems have arisen during other governments, during governments, which also included the Reform Party. At the moment, we are essentially dealing with the problems that have developed over a long period of time. They are so messed up and knotted that it is not possible, frankly, to say on many occasions who exactly has one or the other question. This is the area of communication that is within the competence of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, this is the area of security that is administered by the Ministry of Defence, this is the violation and prosecution of the law, which is the area of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Then it is the area of the Ministry of Justice: legislation, non-compliance with permits issued by local authorities, infringement issues. To tell you that someone's interfering with someone's area, well, frankly, I don't get it at all. It's so out of the way that it's not possible to draw a straight line and say that from here, along this straight line, only this minister or this official walks. Furthermore, I would also remind you that it was only just before that debate and I will probably also have a question about what really should be the subject of the Foreign Minister sitting next to me. This is the External Action Service. Just now, we were told that all officials are so independent and so powerful that they have the right to have an opinion. You see, all ministers are also so powerful and independent people that they have the right to express their opinions and opinions, both in the public and within the government, in discussions and disputes between their coalition partners. So I don't see any breach of authority or violation of state law anywhere. It just doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U33	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U34	We come to question 4 by Lauri Läänemets and answers the Minister for Rural Affairs, Arvo Aller. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. We have the same purpose as you: that there is life in the country so that people can move there if they want to live in the country. And not only do you move to the real problem is that it is difficult to get a loan from banks now to renovate your apartment building or your private house, for example. The previous minister, your predecessor, has said, and you have also said, that you have a plan, through the MES, to allocate EUR 100 million to promote rural living. I am interested that you have said that it comes from external funds, from the European Union budget. Please tell me, which European Union fund is this coming from in particular, is it an agricultural fund, a cohesion policy fund or where exactly is this money coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U36	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the previous Minister for Rural Affairs initiated a program like 'Earth to Live!' ' or the return migration program. Last Friday, there was a meeting of the MES Council, where the strategy was clarified, and this week it should be confirmed. The program to live on Earth! ' has been renamed 'Home to Earth! '. So not only those who come to the country but also those who live in the country can use it to improve their housing and other real estate. To this end, loan money will be included through the government, through the state budget. Where exactly does this money come from? It does not come under any rural programme, it is allocated on the basis of a national budget strategy. It is possible to add these funds from the state budget to the Rural Promotion Foundation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U37	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U38	Very good and right direction, I'll tell you about it. But could you be more specific? In the case of a country's budgetary strategy, it is finally known where this money comes from: is it Estonian taxpayers' money or is it money from a European Union fund? Is that clear? And maybe you can tell me when you're planning to start this program, what year? Please specify whether this is European Union money, as you have, or at least your predecessor has said in the past. If this is European Union money, what fund could it come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U39	What fund is that coming from? Let's just say that with regard to the country's budgetary strategy, we are discussing possible financing models. Is this money coming from the European Union? I'm not so sure about that. We can channel financial resources for investment through the MES, but there is a completely separate programme to encourage rural living, and it will come with a completely separate focus. Whether the state is borrowing for it or we find funds in the state budget, it is already a matter of negotiation. We are discussing this in the government and will soon arrive at the government office with a more precise structure and more precise activities. Then you can say it. But what kind of foundation does that come from? No numbers on the funds, it's 10 million, 100 million, 500 million. I can't say that right now. [[Something's coming out of the hall.]] I didn't hear the beginning. Is that the first part of the question? When do we start? It is a confirmed strategy that we are trying to start as quickly as possible. If we have money, I believe that in 2021 there may be some first steps possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U40	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As perhaps a fresh and ambitious minister, you are not familiar with the country's budgetary strategy. If you look at these figures, you should understand that quite enough air has been drawn into the country's budget strategy, which is not really covered today. We have only just heard in this Chamber that road money has decreased, that it is difficult to find cover for the maintenance of local roads and that the state actually wants to hand over many of you to local authorities. That is why I have a further question on the question of a good colleague. At least, as we know today, it is not possible to channel money from European Union funds into such a programme in such large amounts. After all, we are talking about the 'pillars' and the 'rural development plan' perspective. This raises the question of where this money, this 100 million in the state budget will still come from and what year will it be written into the budget strategy. To help you perhaps a little, I say that some of the activities have been written by the government into years that do not cover the so-called four-year period, i.e. it will be up to the next governments. But the public is trying to make it look like it's being dealt with. Have you discussed this with the Minister of Finance when, more precisely, and where would this money come from anyway? There are different investments in the plan, which we think are actually simply delayed, and there is no money for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U42	Thank you for the clarification. Yes, 100 million have been put in place with a long-term perspective. 'To live on earth! " or 'Home to Earth! ' The programme has a five-year perspective, with an annual allocation of 10 million or a total of 50 million. Whether it's $50 million, it all depends on demand. We're starting somewhere, with the first investment, we're not going to take the state budget out of balance. By doing so, we can create prerequisites for those who live in the countryside and for those who move to the countryside. The ten-year perspective is a long time, that is, the next governments. We will first, I believe, take the responsibility to deal with it and, if we can start it, I think it is a very big and positive step that will also encourage the next governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U43	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U44	Next, Urve Tiidus asks and answers Minister Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Theoretically, people have a very simple relationship with pharmacies. If health is well, it is as if they are not needed, otherwise, to prevent and heal disease, be close to the needy, have all the necessary medicine available at a favourable price, and have a professional counselor available. It's a reasonable wish! Recently, a few months before the reform of the pharmacy took place on 1 April, it has become clear that everything is more complicated in practice. To illustrate this situation, be it the opinion of one member of the government on the debates that have been launched: a heavy threat. Is the comparison with the chaos of the old will more accurate, but there is no consensus among the coalition members on the reform of the pharmacy. This is also evident in the positions of the government partners. Let this be an example of what will be discussed tomorrow in the Committee on Social Affairs in Parliament in the 'last minute' drafts, which will further change the reform of the pharmacy, including the initiative of your party's ambassadors. The future of Social Minister Tanel Kiige is uncertain due to the reform of the pharmacy. The idea put forward by him to implement the reform in stages was not supported either by his colleagues in the government or by the Social Committee chaired by his party. And as if there were not enough, the government is threatened with a supposedly large claim for damages to the Estonian state for expropriation. A wide-ranging pharmaceutical company can come up with a claim for damages, which will give its pharmacies free of charge to pharmacists when the pharmacy reform comes into force, but it has already done so at a price. Since you are here today in two roles, member of the government and acting Prime Minister, I wonder how you think this precarious situation must be resolved. What recommendation has Prime Minister Ratas given you to respond to this issue? And I will also ask you directly: is there any consensus possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U46	Consensus is always possible, a question of whether it will be achieved. If you are now dealing with the reform of the pharmacy, we are in a situation where the coalition is engaged in active negotiations on this issue. We are trying to achieve the support of coalition partners for our draft. I think that we have also moved somewhat further along this road. There was a debate this morning. How does the search for consensus end? I do not dare to predict this now, but our position is very clear: the draft, which was approved in the Riigikogu five years ago, is essentially hostile to free entrepreneurship, is an attack on free entrepreneurship, is taking away the property belonging to them by using the voluntaristic power of the state from the people and harassing the right to entrepreneurship. In essence, it is a draft for expropriation of assets, and we do not support such a draft. This so-called reform I dare even compare with Soviet military communism. The Estonian Conservative People's Party does not support this military so-called reform; the forced redistribution of assets is not supported. People have built up businesses, invested in them, we do not support cheating on their legitimate expectations. The extent to which we find support from our coalition partners will become clear within the short term.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U47	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please! Urve Tiidus was able to press the button, so please specify the question, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U48	Thank you. My bad, I'm late. A few days ago we had reform-compliant pharmacies 181 and non-compliant 317. That number may have changed for today. Among their more than 300 pharmacies were those where the pharmacist's participation existed, perhaps not exactly 51%, as the law passed five years ago provided for. Of course, people who need medicines and other pharmacy products are interested in whether medicines are available after 1 April or whether there are pharmacies where after 1 April there is a sign that the service has been canceled. I will now ask you, as acting Prime Minister, which still guarantees that legal certainty will be guaranteed and that the pharmacy service will still be available after 1 April. Pharmacies are no joke.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U49	As with some previous questions, I must tell you that, look, we are now a cleaning brigade. This soup was made by those who pushed through this classic hate bill five years ago. It's a class-hateed bill! Someone makes too much money. Someone also owns pharmacies and owns wholesale companies too well, let's take it! Come on, what's this? It's a military communism in pure form. And this is the Republic of Estonia and the pharmacy market, which functioned, still functions today. And it's not a question of whether someone's a pharmacist or not a pharmacist, whether someone's in medical education or not in medical education. You can't expect the owner of an auto repair shop to necessarily be a trained car locksmith. As long as it's where the locksmiths work. Well, you can't prescribe such criteria that a pharmacist has to be the owner, otherwise you don't know what's going to happen. The questions are quite different: the issues are the prices of medicines, the availability of medicines. And this reform will do nothing to improve this. Those are the questions. I very much hope that the Reform Party will seriously think about and will decide to support the new draft pharmaceutical reform that we have given to the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U50	And now Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You are very optimistic and optimistic because you and your group have tabled a draft. While you answered that question, the coalition partner sitting next to you yawned. This suggests that he is not very interested in this subject and that there is no hope that this bill will pass. But, actually, I would like to say, Minister, that it is probably not the free market for pharmacies. If we look at the regulation in this area, at its organisation, we cannot say a priori that it is a free market. I do not agree with you on that. And I do not believe that the draft that you have tabled will solve one of the main problems. We forget about the patient sometimes in this hall. The price is also important to the patient, and this bill certainly does not improve prices. And since the state partially compensates people for the price of medicines, it is important that pricing is well transparent. Please tell me whether you sincerely believe that you did the right thing when your group handed over the draft, although no consensus was reached in the coalition. I noticed there that I am not mistaken for the signature of just one member of the Central Party Group, which is an obvious indication that the coalition does not support this bill. What is your optimism based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U52	First of all, I say that indeed, I am an optimist. We're optimists at all. If we weren't optimists, we wouldn't have made it as far as we've come. A beautiful saying is that you can't live without hope, and our hope is still the last to die. This soup is still largely cooked up by other parties, let's say so. And the question is not that this reform, which must enter into force on 1 April, would make something better. It doesn't make anything better. Nothing makes it any better! It does not solve the price-setting mechanism in any way; it does not make it more transparent; it does not improve access to medicines. What's the problem? We know that some medicines, especially the more expensive ones, are not available in Estonian pharmacies. Why? Because our market is so small and wholesalers don't order it. I don't order 'cause they don't want to order 'em. Other mechanisms must be used here, but this reform will not implement other mechanisms. There is no solution in this regard. Now, the pharmacy market is not a free market? There is a free market. At the end of last week, I came from the United States. Before I got on that plane, I went to the grocery store. Oh, my God, drugs by shelves, painkillers, I don't know what it's all about! I'm not very good at all of this, but my husband, who is much smarter than me, as you are convinced in this hall, bought a whole bag of drugs. Completely free from the market, without any recipes. There's no question! In America, it has been made clear that these are medicines that are in the public domain, which do not need to run between doctors, bully them with prescriptions and everything else. They're at the store for sale, please, go and buy. My head hurts? You'll get some medicine! You need some other medicine for heartburn, whatever you want to go up against and buy. And not from the pharmacy, but from the same food store. We would liberalise it, we would like Estonia to be able to buy such drugs at the store. Don't think most people are so stupid they're gonna start putting drugs on themselves with two parties. Come on, come on, come on, come on! So we are, a respected liberal party of reform, in very different views. As a conservative party, we are in favour of market liberalisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U53	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U54	Next question, No. 6. Performs by Jaak Juske and meets Minister Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U55	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister Helme! Jaak Madison, your party partner in the European Parliament, recently made a statement in which he proposed that the good diplomats of Estonia who are critical of government should be recalled from the service and that our External Action Service should essentially be politicised. Mr. Helme, you are here today as Deputy Prime Minister. I want to give you the opportunity to confirm clearly before the entire Estonian people, including all our good diplomats, that as your acting head of government, you condemn a statement such as Jaak Madison, that the current government will not politicise our External Action Service, and that our good diplomats who serve the Estonian state need not be afraid of restricting the repression and freedom of expression of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U56	Firstly, of course, we have different perceptions of the statement. The application and Facebook post are probably two relatively different things. I think that the Facebook post does not qualify as a statement, although it is not a party statement, it is not even a government statement. I'm not going to understand anything. I have been a diplomat myself, working as a diplomat in a situation where I did not share the many views of the government of the Republic of Estonia at the time. As a diplomat, I followed the instructions I received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the government. But since I didn't share those views, I decided to go to politics. However, for all those who do not share the government's views, the government's positions must be followed in the public service. And if they disagree with them, they must leave the state service, become a member of a political party, stand as a candidate in Riigikogu elections or local elections or in other elections, and begin to engage in politics openly and openly, not by intriguing against their own government. That's my answer. There's no politicism. On the contrary, when diplomats express political views, they must be made aware that this is not in line with their duties and that they must be aware that the External Action Service must be depoliticised. The external service is just as the public service in general must be depoliticised, but this does not mean that people are not allowed to express their political views when drinking beer with their friends in the sauna. Mighty! But when they start making statements as you say, it is not in line with their position, and in that case they have to decide whether they want to be officials or whether they want to be politicians. You can't have both.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U57	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U58	Mr. Helme! I would remind you that in this case, it was not some Estonian diplomat who made the statement, but a politician named Jaak Madison. And when a politician makes a political statement, text or post on his public Facebook account, it's a very public matter. Since you were not prepared to condemn Mr Madison's statement, I understand that our External Action Service still has cause for concern that the government, to which you belong, may, in certain cases, restrict their freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U59	I don't think we have diplomats to worry about. I think that diplomats who do not take political stand or work against their national governments need not be concerned at all. They have no reason to worry. As regards Jaak Madison, Jaak Madison is a Member of the European Parliament. I would remind you that all Members of the European Parliament have expressed different political views. Everyone who has been elected from different political parties to the European Parliament has expressed different political positions, has intervened very strongly, tried to influence Estonia's internal policies as well as international relations from time to time, Estonian foreign policy. If, in the case of Jaak Madison, it is found to be somehow objectionable, then I think it is just as deplorable, for example, in the case of Urmas Paet, or in the case of Sven Mikser, or in the case of anyone else. So let us measure everyone with the same yardstick, and let us not talk here about the sovereign position of a Member of the European Parliament, I stress: a sovereign member.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U60	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U61	Thank you. Mr. Helme, you've got a little bit of a cross now. The question here was not whether politicians were allowed to make political statements in this case, in Madison's case, you have now overconfirmed this by answering the first question. The question was whether politicians could threaten the official body, in this case the External Action Service. I respect Harri Tiido very much. I remember well, by the way, how he described the Polish judicial reform in a very balanced way as a Polish ambassador, which you might like very much. But now, in your first reply, you actually threatened the External Action Service again and apparently Harri Tiido. Tell me how crazy it is with Harri Tiido, what he said exactly. No one knows that. And why did you get so angry when you started telling me that diplomats should come into politics if they wanted to express their views? How did this Harri Tiido get in your teeth, in person, reflected your mood, as well as Jaak Madison's?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U62	I don't know anything about what Harri Tiido said. In this sense, I cannot comment on any statements by Harri Tiido or on what Jaak Madison might have had in mind. What I was talking about was a principle. The principle is clear and that is the case in all countries. I don't think you're gonna find any country that can tolerate his diplomats making some kind of critical statement about their government. I was basically talking. I know absolutely nothing about Harri Tiido's case, which is why I have no comment on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U63	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U64	Next question, No 7, author of Urmas Kruuse, answers the Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In recent weeks much has been said about land tax and possible land valuations. There's a lot of different signals coming from the government. On the one hand, we hear that local authorities should be able to decide more on their own how much they earn from the land tax, but on the other hand, Minister Aab, and it also seems that Minister Martin Helme has different views on how much the land tax should rise after this regular assessment. After all, it is no secret to anyone that the value of the earth has increased many times: on average, more than eight times, even up to 11 times, depending on the destination. After all, the value of agricultural land has clearly increased. As Minister for Rural Affairs and responsible for this area, what position are you in as regards the land tax and its regular assessment? What is your vision: Will it rise and when it rises, how much? Can you say that the price of land has actually fallen behind time and should be brought into line with time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U66	Thank you. Indeed, the last regular land valuation was in 2001, almost 20 years ago. During this time, as we all know, the price of the land has risen. Fortunately or unfortunately, although the ministry is called the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the land does not belong to us, just as the forest does not belong to us. The Land Office is under the Ministry of the Environment. We work very closely with the Ministry of the Environment to assess the land, to make proposals in this regard. Now, how is this price going to rise? Yes, it is an important sign for local governments in this sense that there is a regular assessment of the countries. As a result of the regular valuation, the value of the land will certainly increase and the value of the land will also increase in the income of the local government. By what percentage, this is the subject of further discussions. The previous evaluation 20 years ago, of course, gives a very important reason why this needs to be done again. This must certainly be done gradually, with new assessments to be carried out periodically, whether after four years or after five years. Otherwise, we'll talk subjectively so that the land can pay such or such a price. Regular assessments could be carried out on a continuous basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U67	Urmas Kruuse, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Jaak Aab has said that the price could rise by 10 to 15% a year. If local authorities are faced with such a limit, this may also mean that, regardless of the market situation, local authorities will increase the price by 10 to 15% each year, and this could mean the opposite trend that this tax rate exceeds the real price. How is this matter to be resolved? But you are also aware that the state has different land use contracts with tenants. One of them is an usufruct agreement, which has reached its deadline and needs to be restructured. I understand that the state has concerns about the fact that, since the land is not regularly valued, it is difficult for them to set a price close to the market value according to the law, let's put it this way. How are you going to solve this problem? The public knows, for example, the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the lease of land to Tartu Agro. Are these contracts all coming into a similar system? How do you intend to avoid taxpayers' losses?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U69	Thank you for the clarification. Returning to land valuation and raising this rate: it's still going through the government. The government has not approved whether it will rise by 10, 15 or 50%. There are serious discussions about this. We are talking about regular land valuation and the termination of usufruct contracts. That's a problem. We in the Ministry of Rural Affairs are also discussing this very seriously with the Ministry of the Environment. Now, usufructs are also coming to the Riigikogu in connection with the amendment of the Land Reform Act. The goal is also to give access to your loved ones. When prices are brought to the same level as market prices, producers face a great deal of difficulties. Finding a fair price is also a matter of agreement. If this is to be done on a region-by-region basis, how the common average price is to be found is very important. We will work on this in cooperation with the two ministries, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment, where the Land Board is also involved. I believe that a solution will be found in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U70	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I have prepared an additional question on support for living in the countryside, but I have not been able to get to the right point, which is why I am now asking. The results of the world's most long-term experiments show that organic and biodynamic systems are richer in both macro and micro-organisms and produce less greenhouse gases than conventional systems due to increased organic matter content. Organic farming does not use synthetic plant protection products, places a great deal of emphasis on animal welfare, does not use hormonal preparations to increase production growth or antibiotics against diseases, nor does it cultivate or use transformational crops. Last year a conference was held on the 30th anniversary of organic farming. In three decades Estonia has reached a level where we are the second most organic after Austria in the European Union. We are pleased to note that consumer awareness and demand for organic food are also increasing. My question is: will you support the increase in the volume of organic farming and, if you support it, what measures are you going to take?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U72	I understand that this question was meant to be asked to live on Earth! 'in connection with the program. The price of organic agricultural land will rise in the same way in the future. 'To live on earth! ' Under the programme, we support people who come to the country to deal with conventional production, but we also support organic producers. The MES doesn't know who's chosen what kind of production. With these programs, we support people who are willing to stay on land or build homes in the country. There is also a new initiative that has been taken, as Estonia is now a member of the Security Council of the United Nations. We are about to begin preparations for 2025, which is supposed to be the global rye year. It is one of the outputs of organic production, in the same way as improving soil fertility in the context of biodiversity. We must do a great deal this year to introduce the value of rye, the importance of rye bread and the importance of growing rye as a culture. To this end, we are working well with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who will help us on another continent to get our consent to the World Year of Rye in 2025.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U73	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U74	The next question, No 8, posed by Yoko Alender, is answered by Minister Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U75	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Mr. Minister! The National Audit Office recently found that supporting the LGBT association with gambling tax money is not acceptable, while the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Social Affairs have said that equal treatment is the task of the Ministry of Social Affairs and other ways of supporting minorities must be found. You and your party, as you know, are reluctant to fund LGBT associations, and you have also made it clear that at some point you and Tanel Kiige may not fit into the same government. Do you and your party intend to continue to prevent actions and funding for equal treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U76	Our position on funding these organisations is clear: this should not be done from the state budget. However, this is not about equality, but the National Audit Office draws attention to violations of the State Budget Act. This is quite something else than the issue of equal treatment. You may treat equally who you want for your money, but if you use a state wallet, you must do so in accordance with the state budget law. In a specific case, this law has been violated, and that is a problem. This problem has been under discussion within the government. The Prime Minister is aware of this, we have brought this to his attention and to the Minister for Social Affairs, and I believe that we will move forward in such a way that there will be no such violations in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U77	Yoko Alender, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U78	Thank you. You answered and you didn't answer. However, it is up to the state to promote equal treatment. Its roots are, in fact, enshrined in the Constitution: democracy is not the power of the majority, but the protection of the minority, based on certain positions. I dare say that Minister for Social Affairs Tanel Kiik agrees with me and believes that this is an important activity and that we need to find legitimate ways to do so. Now, if you don't fit into one government, which one of you will leave, is it Minister Tanel Kiik or you, Mr Helme?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U79	No, I'm not leaving. I also have time to leave this eternity, I hope. Once again, our position is very clear: such things are not financed from the state budget. This has nothing to do with equal treatment. No one is treated unequally; some simply demand that they be treated more equally. And we find that to be a problem. There can be no privileged sauce in society, no privileged group that loudly insists that they have to get something more. If we say, 'and this is a question of political choices', that it would be much more sensible for disabled people, single mothers and many other vulnerable groups to support with this money, then it is our political choice. If Tanel Kiik says he wants to support homo-organisations, it's his political choice. Now, what do good politicians do? They negotiate, they compromise, and that's what we're working on. Nobody's leaving right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U80	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U81	Thank you. Mr. Helme! You're talking about pharmacies for nothing at the Reform Party. I actually agreed with you on several points that this would not be the case, and I have never supported what will happen on 1 April. Similarly, I support the fact that money and wallets are not allowed to slip, even if the objective is noble. Everything has to be done correctly. In this case, a financial error has indeed been made. Let us not assess this objective, it is a general procedure for applying for money, which must be carried out correctly. But tell me how you and Tanel Swing can still fit into the government. Tell me! We actually understand that this is very difficult, we also see the face-to-face conflicts between your party and Tanel Kiig. How long are you gonna stand for what Tanel Swing is doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U82	You know, I don't feel any patience. What am I gonna say about this? I say that I have not witnessed it, and that is why I am perhaps speaking to some sort of rumor right now, but I have heard that in some previous governments conflicts have been such that people have yelled at each other and yelled at each other and slamed the doors and marched away and made such a thing happen. Now, I can tell you that in this coalition, I have not seen such a thing. Nobody's yelling at anybody, nobody's trampled away, nobody's been blackmailing. Yes, of course, we have three political parties: two conservative parties and one liberal party. It can't be that we're automatically similar in all things, but we're talking to each other, we're looking for solutions. In this case, too, we are looking for solutions on this issue, and perhaps we will find this solution in such a way that, in the next few times, those to whom these so-called minority groups are awfully close to their hearts will help them with their roof money. Please! So we can't say anything about it. Help your LGBT associations with the rooftop money as much as you want, you have the chance. Although strictly speaking, it is state budget money, but here, the sovereignty of the ambassador and his electorate and everything else are at stake. We can't put a hand between them. With our roofing money, we have helped very many churches, church repairs, and congregations. That is our sovereign right, and no one has accused us of doing so. I think there's a way to find solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U83	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U84	Next, question 9, author Marko Mihkelson and answer Minister Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in his duties as Prime Minister. Consistency and principledness are a pretty strong currency in politics, which is generally well converted into election victory in elections. And we both know that if you cheat the voter once, maybe you won't get another chance. On 13 June 2017, current Finance Minister Martin Helme said: 'We became a categoric, absolute opponent of this project. [---] People who have the ability to think, read and compute cannot be made pro Rail Baltic. " Now it's been a while. EKRE is in the government. If you follow the media, there will be news over and over again that things aren't quite right with Rail Baltic. There's a problem with the management structure, and three countries aren't gonna be able to step on the same foot. The European Commissioner Hahn said only recently in Tallinn that if Estonia does not make a great deal of effort to manage the project, there will be no money, and if there is no money, there will be no Rail Baltic. Have I developed any misconception of policy continuity and principledness? Anyway, as a government party, you seem to be sabotaging the construction of Rail Baltic on the basis of the project that has been agreed upon. Or am I wrong? And if I am wrong, please tell me what you are doing, in particular, as Prime Minister, now in order to complete this project by 2026.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U86	The continuity of our positions has not suffered. Our position is that this project, in its current form, is not useful for Estonia. This project is expensive and harmful from the point of view of the natural environment. Otherwise, we all have a natural environment and climate neutrality here, and what we love so much, but look at nature in this matter as it doesn't matter. We have always considered that From the beginning it has been possible to choose Tartu or Pärnu corridor. Somehow, the previous governments decided that we would dig a deep ditch in the middle of Estonia, fill it with the gravel, rubble and other materials that exist throughout Estonia, build huge amounts of expensive viaducts, and I don't know what yet. In short, we're doing something that's irrational. We have opposed this irrational project and we have not changed our position. During the coalition negotiations, we said very clearly: we do not support this project. As a result, a point was included in the coalition agreement, which says: if the European Commission does not come from an agreed amount of funding, this project will fall away. None of the representatives of our party have been part of any of the sub-organisations or any organisational group that deals with Rail Baltic, so we have not been able to sabotage it with our best will. Our sabotage is limited to the point that has been written into a coalition agreement ♪ if anyone wants to call it sabotage. But we have a fundamental position in the past: the construction of a railway in an existing corridor, not a new corridor. Because, of course, in principle, we want, as the whole of Estonia really wants, people who do not support this particular project, so that Estonia has a southern link with the important political, economic and other centres of Western Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U87	Marko Mihkelson, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U88	I think you really confirmed in your own words that you are doing everything at least to ensure that the Rail Baltic project, as agreed, is not carried out. At least you're not doing anything to make it happen in this form. This shows once again how much the Haral government has in this matter, even though it also has an international dimension. I will come to this international dimension on my second question. In the context of Estonia's image, nothing has to be done, it has to be recalled that it has also sounded before going through what your attitude is towards those people who dare to think otherwise when it comes to matters of very fundamental importance regarding Estonia's current and future status in international politics. If you will allow me, I am currently paraphrasing the words of one of the most famous diplomats in the United States, former Ambassador of Kiev, Marie Yovanovich, which was only recently read in Washington Post. I paraphrase his quote: 'I have seen dictatorships all over the world, where blind submission is the norm, and those telling the truth are threatened with punishment or death. We must make every effort to ensure that, while he says the United States, I would replace it with Estonia, it would not become a country where criticising the government could be a dangerous activity. ' You used to joke about Madison's statement. Well, as has Minister of Finance Martin Helme only very strongly criticised Matti Strawberry, another well-known diplomat last year, when he considered your statements regarding the comparison of the European Union with the Soviet Union inappropriate and expressed the opinion that it is very difficult to represent Estonia's views, as they differ very fundamentally from that line, which...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U89	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U90	... has characterised Estonia so far. Do you really confirm by repeating your earlier words that Estonian diplomats should keep their mouths shut if they do not like anything in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U91	Well, on the subject of Rail Baltic, they could really keep their mouths shut because this project isn't making any progress. But your question was not absolutely about Rail Baltic; it was just your comment on Estonian foreign policy. Once again, I came from the United States at the end of last week. I had a lot of very high-level meetings there, which somehow the Estonian media didn't want to talk about very much. But I didn't feel anywhere and never felt that Estonia had a bad image or that Estonia had somehow been classified as some sort of pariah. On the contrary, it was stressed everywhere in the United States that they respect Estonia and how important they consider Estonia's support, Estonia's participation in their programmes and projects in the future. All these stories about Estonia's image being somehow damaged or I don't know, whatever it is, forget it! No, there's no such thing. Nor have I experienced this in the various Councils of the European Commission, and so on. These are, I understand, certain bitter opposition sentiments, but let them be. As far as free expression is concerned, personally, our party as a whole has experienced profound condemnation, mockery, personal attacks for dissent over the years. Please stop practicing it in the future! Don't mock Henn Põllea, don't mock Mart Helmet, don't mock Martin Helme! Take a respectful view of our different opinions, and we also respect you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U92	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Ligi, I would remind you that the various slogans and signs and flags of the Riigikogu Hall must not be taken with you. We have a completely consensual decision of the Riigikogu's board of directors, and the Riigikogu's board also includes a representative of your party. Nevertheless, I saw two members of your party with these slogans, which we once had trouble for, waving here, if you could say so. Please take them from this hall when you leave! But now there's a chance to ask Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U93	Thanks for that. Mr. Helme! I have not been a fan of Rail Baltic for many reasons, but I accept it for security policy and climate policy reasons. The decision on this has fallen. And you're the Prime Minister in the chair right now, not the Chairman of the EKRE. The Prime Minister has repeatedly promised in the international auditorium that this thing will be done, that it will be under his personal control, therefore in this case yours as well. At the same time, it must not be forgotten that, as far as I am aware, two political parties in your government have financed from the state budget, I would stress, the propaganda against Rail Baltic also in a situation where the decision has fallen and the government has promised that it will deal with it. How does it work in the government that you internationally allow Rail Baltic to be built, but at the same time you finance the propaganda against Rail Baltic from the budget of the same country that has allowed it? I ask as a person who, I repeat, has not been a fan of Rail Baltic. I'd like to know how this government works, what it is, what it's called government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U94	Just now, we had a question here about financing LGBT, and there had to be equal treatment. The exact same treatment will then be the case for this NGO. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U95	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U96	Next question No 10, the questioner is Hanno Pevkur and answers Minister Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U97	Thank you. Mr. Helme, I might pick up where Marko Mihkelson ended up. As regards the credibility of the Estonian state, the functioning of the Estonian state and our reputation in the eyes of foreign countries, this is undoubtedly something that we have built for several, even several decades. And it really isn't easy to dismantle it, but you're making a big contribution to make it happen. As far as criticism is concerned, however, I would also advise you to take into account that you are currently in the Prime Minister's office, but also the Minister of the Interior and the member of the Government have one of the qualities that should exist on a daily basis. Unfortunately, the dismantling of credibility takes a piece and a step at a time. There are not many examples to give. You have said that the heads of the judges should fly and that even the judges could be politically defined, as well as the attack on the ambassadors, a bit of a long-term attack on the leader of the police. But, in fact, I was moved to ask today's question for our debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: if the judges have got their share, ambassadors and police leader too, it is business now. Perhaps, however, you are opening up these guarantees that it is necessary to begin to assess the reliability of entrepreneurs in the form you have proposed for the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. You can come here to justify this, but to say that a number of Estonian entrepreneurs, including Bolt according to your approach, are not reliable in the eyes of the Estonian state, certainly cause a great deal of resentment in Estonian entrepreneurs. The auditorium's pretty big today. Can you explain it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U98	Well, now we're getting to Mihkelson's last question. They say we're rejecting differences of opinion. No, we're not rejecting differences of opinion, I think we're rejecting differences of opinion here right now. When we talk about Bolt, I have received signals, and from very competent sources, that taxis are being carried by people who do not have the right to do so, who do not have a work permit, who have entered the Republic of Estonia on the basis of visa-free travel, where they cannot work under visa-free conditions, but yet they do taxi driving here. I'm gonna check it out, and if it turns out these signals aren't true, I'm gonna say this company is reliable. If it turns out that these signals are true, it will be confirmed that this company is not reliable. Trust me, but check it out! This is what the country has to do. The state must act like a country. And we are trying to act like a country, not like blue eyes, and we cannot imagine that everyone who has registered a company will never engage in a priori, because they are so honest, and the Estonian state is so great that everyone here is complying with the law. No, the Estonian state is not so great; there are also people who do not comply with the law. As far as the credibility of the state is concerned, I have experienced that the credibility of the Estonian state is very high. But this credibility is most undermined by the internationalisation of domestic intrigues. There is no need to bring these domestic intrigues, whether through the ALDE or otherwise, to the international level. In this case, the credibility of the Estonian state will be damaged. If we don't take our intrigue out of the house, our credibility will not be the least.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U99	Hanno Pevkur, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U100	Well, that last ending started to get really into that fake news. Well, the best defense is an attack. Tell me everyone else is guilty, you're as clean as a spectacle stone, right? But as far as credibility is concerned, I'm going to give you a chance to get one more thing straightened out. Although, yes, on the subject of the Aliens Act, we can still communicate. Bolt was just one example you mentioned. But this form of how you want to start saying that some companies are reliable and some are not, is still the subject of further debate. But because everyone is attacking you, and everyone is as bad as they are, I understand you have created a portal for New News. Now it turns out that you're stuck in the New News with fake news, false news or false news, where you've dragged Delfi. You've said that Delfi seems to have written about coronavir, patients who are hidden somewhere. The editor of the Delfi has repeatedly tried to get an explanation from you, and the Evening Paper has tried to get an explanation, but you have not wanted to comment in any way on this ♪ Neither the new news nor the management of the EKRE from whom it has been requested. I have a good chance here. Since the ether is free, the word is free, please explain how these fake news will get to you on that portal. I understand you have such a basic understanding. You also said no one wrote about your U.S. trip. But you have the new news, write it all down and spice these messages with your own little or bigger lies. This is how you can tell people your truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U101	What do I say to that? I say that in all press publications it happens from time to time that they publish something that is not true or partly true. Everyone happens. The evening paper quite often publishes editorials in which it accuses me or our party of some sort of thing, in which, to put it mildly, it is an arbitrary interpretation of something. Let's just take what's always going on in this hall: that we're attacking women's doctors. Don't attack the ladies' doctors! We believe abortion is a child's murder. This isn't attacking women's doctors, but you interpret it as attacking women's doctors, so many of you. It's murder, that's clear. It's the destruction of human life, but it's not attacking women's doctors. Things can be taken and interpreted in the same way and in different ways. Honestly, I'm not very familiar with this new news story. If you think I sit there in the media day after day reading these messages, I don't have much time to sit there and read it all. I usually look at what's written in the mornings, and at night I take a look at it before I go to bed. I don't know exactly what's in there. Well, I guess I'll try to get into what's in there. I don't even know exactly what the news is. I'm sorry! I don't know exactly how to comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U102	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna take your final statements that abortion is murder and your doctors aren't being attacked. But if abortion is murder, then the doctor is a murderer. Or the logic that doesn't apply? Maybe we have a different logic, but general logic should say that. And in this sense, it is understandable why doctors are angry at such a statement. Speaking of reliability, you indicated that the credibility of Estonia would be very great if no one from X would take national news to the international arena. I think there's a proverb that injustice doesn't stand in the bag. I think that credibility is not in the bag either, and that there are no borders on credibility: either there are or there is no. And in both directions, it concerns both national activities and their impact, activities beyond national borders. But my question is actually driven by Jürgen Ligi's previous question, on which you said that everyone should be treated equally. As when the LGBT Association was financed, it is perfectly normal that, although the governments of the Republic of Estonia have decided that Rail Baltic should be implemented, the anti-LGBT organisations can also be financed. Did I understand correctly from your previous statements that money must be taken away from these organisations, and this also concerns the organisation against Rail Baltic?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U104	Thank you. I was based on your logic. I was based on your logic! As far as I know, this NGO against Rail Baltic has not been funded in violation of the budget law. But the LGBT stuff has been funded in clear violation of the Budget Act and has been brought to the attention of the National Audit Office. If you're saying that I have some kind of logic problem, I'm saying you have some kind of logic problem. Funding models have been different, one has been a non-compliance and the other has not been a non-compliance. So we have nothing to argue about. As far as credibility is concerned, I do not see that Estonia's credibility has disappeared somewhere. Estonia has not violated any international commitments it has made. At least I do not know that Estonia would have violated any international commitments it has made. I do not know that our allies would doubt Estonia's readiness to contribute to military missions, humanitarian missions. Estonia is doing this: we currently have a number of military missions and civilian missions outside, and there are a number of people involved in this in the field of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Yesterday I recorded a video greeting for the staff of the Estonian Ministry of the Interior on missions abroad to celebrate the anniversary. We reward them with a medal. I know that our plane, which went on Frontex's mission some time ago, was literally being caressed. Other countries did not have such a good equipment to send a plane with such a resolution to missions as Estonia. Certainly, this is also the result and recognition of the actions of previous governments! We made a good impression. I do not see that Estonia's reputation has been hit by any kind of blow. No hits on our reputation! Forget the rhetoric, it just doesn't work. You can amplify all this with the press of our base left-liberal consensus, but that's not true. That is simply not true, and I am convinced that the Foreign Minister sitting next to me will confirm the same. [[???Urmas Reinsalu kohalt: 'Jah, olen samal seisukohal suures plaanis.'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U105	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U106	Question No 11, Annely Akkermann asks and answers Minister Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U107	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister! 'Estonian language, culture, history, society, nature are not studied or documented by anyone else for us, and the Estonian state has a constitutional obligation to ensure the means of continuing research in this field,' emphasizes many Estonian research and education institutions in their turn. The folklore musicians performed the song 'Woe Aid Speech to the Prime Minister' last week, with the words: 'Tell me, why do I suddenly feel like I'm a dying species? ' I have not noticed that you or Jüri Ratas would have responded to this appeal through the press, so I will take this opportunity to ask again. Tell me why folk musicians feel like they're a dying species. Secondly, in this Chamber, I ask the question that Johanna Ross put in her article: 'Can we imagine a humanitarian scientist other than the great combinator, the cornflower in the chest and the blue black and white ribbons on him? ' Third, I ask you this: are coalition politicians just big talkers, cornflowers in the chest and blue black and white ribbons on them, or are you still putting the plan to break up the literary museum and the language institute and developing a science funding model that guarantees the development opportunities for national science and raises science funding to 1% of the national budget? In Estonia, two private parties are the only guardian of national culture. How can such fundamental and painful questions ever arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U108	Thank you. If you went into a bit of numbers and didn't go along with the panic spread in the press, you'd see that basic funding has survived and nominal funding has increased, financing has increased. In nominal terms, it has increased as the state budget has increased, the state budget has increased and the amounts behind these percentages have increased accordingly. So nobody's gotten less money. More money has been received, but of course they want more money. That's one. Second. I think two weeks ago we were sitting at Stenbock's house, the Prime Minister was present, and I think Mr Reinsalu was also present, and we discussed, among other things, the problems of the singing party and all kinds of folk art collectives, how the government could help them more. Would it be possible to support folklore in the folk dance band? Would it be possible to establish a salary for choir leaders? We did not finish this debate, but the debate has begun. We are not a government that looks down and carelessly at folk art collectives. That's not true. We're looking for a way, but here I want to get to a third point, especially this left wing right here, from my perspective, it's the idea that we have to shut everyone down. Let's not chop the woods, let's not mine the oil shale, let's shut down the industries. Then where does the money come from? There must be no transition period, we'll close it all up, we'll finish it all up. Climate, climate, climate! Look, if we fall into the climate madness like this blindly, we will, after all, put all things away, all folk dance collectives, all choirs, all Estonian museums and other things. But there's gotta be money coming from somewhere. Do you think this will only come from Brussels? It's not just Brussels. There will also be some CO2 money coming from Brussels, and then there will be something with a finger on it. We still have to build a country with a functioning economy, then we also have money for culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U109	Annely Akkermann, clarification. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U110	Thank you very much. You answered here today, bearing in mind the associations of folk culture, folk dance groups and the choir, whose leaders are working during the day, but the question was raised by Estonian national scientists, top scientists, professionals. The current composition of the Riigikogu formed a problem committee for learning Estonian language. One special committee has an annual budget of EUR 100000, i.e. some EUR 400000 throughout its term of office. The chairman receives a salary supplement of approximately EUR 1000 and the vice-chairman receives about EUR 500. In addition, both can take a car to park in the courtyard of the Riigikogu. It creates additional burdens for officials, additional bureaucracy. At the same time, the agendas of the committees are, to put it mildly, blasphemous, and the problems of Estonian language learning could be discussed freely by the Committee on Culture as part of its routine work. For example, 11 meetings of the Committee on Culture took place during the first session of 2019. This session had eight full weeks, i.e. 24 sessions could be held. In other words, the Committee on Culture would have had enough time and time to discuss Estonian language learning issues. Don't you think that in a situation where the staff of the literary museum, top researchers with a doctorate holding the DNA of Estonian language and culture, threatens to concentrate, it is the least that the Riigikogu can do, abandon spending on the problem committee of Estonian language learning and channel this money to the DNA keepers of our culture with an additional budget? Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U111	Oh, the article's over! Thank you. What do I say to that? Darlings, the Ministry of the Interior does not set up committees in the Riigikogu. The Ministry of the Interior also does not disband Riigikogu committees. The work of Riigikogu committees is not organised by the Minister of the Interior or even by the Prime Minister. Generally speaking, I understand that you have a problem, but the work of the Riigikogu is not organised by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U112	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U113	Thank you. Mr. Helme, try to get used to the fact that you're in the role of Prime Minister right now. I'm asking about the culture of government, the heritage of the culture of government. Commenting on one or the right two previous questions, you consistently used such a peculiar approach. In the old days, the financial rules, yes, had to be right, the wallets were separated, the cheats were not allowed, but on the other hand, all non-profit organisations had equal opportunities to apply for money. How has it happened that, in the case of a non-profit organisation that is not suitable for you in the world, you highlight the financial rules, but the other one that is very well suited to you, for example, the Rail Baltic one, you highlight and you find that they must be given money from the state budget to fight against the government? The propaganda against Rail Baltic will be paid directly through your party from the state budget. Tell me how this government works for you! Talk about the heritage of the culture of governance, how much you think it is valuable and how much you intend to replace it or have already replaced it with a new culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U114	It was not quite clear how Rail Baltic and cultural heritage now interact. But if you have any complaints that this government is going to screw up somewhere and doesn't stand a difference of opinion, you'll see, it'll stand for differences of opinion. Those in the government who support Rail Baltic agree that those in the government that do not support Rail Baltic are favorably disposed to finance the organisation that is critical to Rail Baltic. I don't think there's any dissonance here. We tolerate differences of opinion, we want dissent to enrich society and lead to an optimal solution to problems where there are differences in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U115	Thank you. I will also close the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U116	Next, question No 12, asks Signe Riisalo and answers Minister Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U117	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of the Interior in charge of the Prime Minister! Although my question is quite strongly linked to the position of the EKRE, I expect an answer from the position of the Head of Government. In his letter to the Committee on Culture on Higher Education, EKRE has said that the task of a higher education institution should be to support national culture and a country that is absolutely right. Similarly, you have said that one-and-a-half percent of GDP could be planned for higher education. Likewise, positive! It is surprising, however, that the percentage of students who have studied abroad or completed traineeships should be removed from the performance finance criteria, i.e. Estonian students, the proportion of foreign students who have graduated from higher education institutions and the proportion of students who have graduated during the nominal duration of the curriculum. Similarly, the planned restrictions on foreign students have been criticised, limiting students' ability to work in 16 hours a week. But we want to activate the Estonian economy and science by using the competence of foreign universities, and also bring the grants of foreign universities here. Looking at these schemes, the question arises as to whether Estonia will become a closed small country, where the door will be closed to both those who come here and those who go here, or Estonian students who want to study or practice in other universities. How will these proposed measures help to support national culture and state and contribute to a coherent society?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U118	They help to ensure that our universities are not interested in increasing the number of heads by engaging more and more foreign students, and in this context by creating more and more foreign language courses and study programmes. Very simple! After all, we are now seeing that there is a very clear and very rapid eroding of higher education in Estonian in the higher education landscape. I taught myself 14 years. When I started, it was probably 2002 or 2003, maybe 2001, then all the courses were in Estonian. When I left in 2014, all the courses were in English. True, it was at first a private university that joined Tallinn University of Technology, which we now have in TalTech. Isn't that a great name in Estonian, hurrah? The Estonian name TalTech? Give me that blanket, please, I was cold last night, I'd love to take the other blanket! This is irony, but this is the case: we have universities where more than 30% of students are of foreign origin. I myself taught groups where more than half of the students were Estonians, but we did all the courses in English. However, among the other half or less than half were people whose English skills were below any level. Do you think the participation of such students in teaching will increase the quality of teaching or lower the quality of teaching? I don't think there's a two-way view here. We can see how education policy and university funding policies are very clearly eroding higher education in Estonian and the further development and enrichment of the Estonian scientific language. This is the idea of this bill: to take this thing into focus, to reverse what can be reversed, or at least to create a discussion in society in order to find the optimal solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U119	Thank you. I will conclude with this question and answer today's Question Time. I would like to thank all the questioners and thank the ministers for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U120	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to submit drafts or questions? Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Reform Party, I have an inquiry to the Government Minister for Education and Science, Mailis Reps. The inquiry concerns the import of the ideology of the Russian Federation, i.e. the effect of influence in Estonia. The official historical narrative of the Russian Federation differs significantly from what is considered a historical truth in Estonia and most other European countries. This was confirmed once again by Putin's speech of 15 January 2020, in which he announced the need to defend the truth about the victory achieved in the Great Patriotic War. The concern of the Estonian state is that the history teachers of our Russian-speaking schools have been ignoring the advanced courses organized by the Estonian History Teachers' Association for years; instead, they are actively participating in the advanced courses of history teachers in St Petersburg and Pihkva, which also brings in the teaching literature published in the Russian Federation. The Defence Police is aware of the participation in these further trainings and has confirmed that teachers are ideologically biased and that the real aim of Russia is to influence young people through teachers and educational material. The inaction of our Ministry of Education keeps open the back doors to the systematic influence of the Russian Federation, which has a significant impact on the worldview, values, attitudes towards the Estonian state, the allied countries that are important to us and international organisations of our schoolchildren. I therefore wish to hand over an inquiry to the Riigikogu's management board.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U122	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further request for referrals and drafts. The management board of the Riigikogu deals with the submitted inquiry in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Incoming check, please! 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U123	Ladies and gentlemen, On today's agenda, we have three items on the agenda, because one item has moved from yesterday's working day to today's agenda. That's what we're gonna start with. The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on fishing initiated by the Committee on Rural Affairs. I would like to ask Heiki Hepner, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U124	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I bring before you for the first reading the draft law amending the Fisheries Act 136. The draft law amending the Fishing Act aims at supplementing the organisational provisions for fishing, which would allow Lake Peipsi to introduce annual catches of herring and ink per gear. The amendment concerns caste killers and ink murderers. Targeted catches of one species are carried out by these means: the casserole is used to catch herring and Peipsi ink in the ink with an ink trap. It is possible to introduce a similar fishing arrangement on Lake Peipsi as in the Baltic herring fishery in Pärnu county. The annual harvest per boxtrap has been established in Pärnu County since 2014. This is an analogous principle to the system of reference quantities; the operator has a fixed quota for the gear. The difference between individual quotas is that annual catches cannot be transferred or leased from a separate fishing gear and historical fishing rights do not apply to it. Only fishing gear can be exported and leased in coastal fisheries; the authorised catch is assigned to the instrument. Such management can be applied to fishing gears targeting one of the main target species and marginally other species. This is to catch herring and herring with a saucer and to catch Peipsi ink with an ink trap. The text and explanatory memorandum of the draft law amending the Fishing Act have been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. On 2 December 2019 the Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the issue for the first time with stakeholders. Representatives from the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the Ministry of the Environment, the Estonian Fish Association and the Council of Developers of the Peipsi Fisheries Area were present. On 20 and 27 January, the Commission again discussed the draft and decided to send the draft to first reading and to close the first reading. Heiki Hepner was also appointed rapporteur. All decisions were taken unanimously by the Commission. Now a little bit of the bill itself. Point 1 of the draft law supplements the existing law so as to allow the authorised catches for ink traps to be taken into account when granting a fishing authorisation. The current law allows this in the case of caste bitches, but not in the case of ink bitches. However, if the annual yield of the authorised ink is established, it should also be entered on the fishing authorisation and taken into account when issuing the authorisation in the case of an ink trap. This is important in the interests of legal clarity. Point 2 of the draft act provides for the possibility to record on the fishing authorisation also the annual catches allowed on Lake Peipsi ink trap, which are the product of this fishing opportunity and of the authorised annual catch. Point 3 of the draft provides that, where the annual yield of the permitted herring and Peipsi ink is established for the purpose of fishing with pots and ink, the catch of the fisherman shall first be counted against the annual yield of the abovementioned species. Once the annual harvest of ink and herring is exhausted, the fishing with casseroles and ink must be stopped. This will avoid the deduction of catches from other instruments. It is also possible to catch Peipsi ink and herring by-catches by means other than ink and crayfish. Those species are present in by-catches such as peripheral and open water beds. Point 4 of the draft law supplements the law in such a way that the permitted annual yield for herring and ink can also be established for the crate or ink trap. According to the law, "permissible annual catches" are introduced for all fish species, which means that catches can be fished with different gears. The efficiency of fishing gear has increased from year to year, so the capacity to catch catch, or quota, has increased. This has led to a shortening of the fishing season. The purpose of the amendment is to establish the annual yield of Peipsi ink and herring on the lake of Peipsi for crate and ink traps, which will allow a more even allocation of fishing effort during the fishing season and provide stability to the catcher in order to catch the catch in specified quantities. Point 5 of the draft law adds a new paragraph, which gives the Government of the Republic the right to distribute the annual catches of the species to pots and ink traps and the rest of the fishing gear. The establishment of the annual harvest must take account of the harvest of previous years, as well as the possibilities for sustainable management of fisheries resources. For example, the lake Peipsi has been caught with dankers in 2016. About 44% of the herring harvest in 2008, the rest of which have been caught by other means. Some fishermen have adapted open-water traps during the herring season to catch herring, resulting in significant by-catches of this species. It is reasonable to ensure that herring is harvested even in other traps in order to meet the legitimate expectations of those who catch them. The authorised catches of sluts are further distributed between cask traps, while catches remaining on the rest of the fishing gear remain unallocated, and remain subject to the existing catch management system. By-catches of Peipsi ink were less than 1% of the total catch in peripheral and open water beds in 2018. However, the above rates show that a proportionate share of the allowable catches must be retained for fishing gears other than crate and ink traps in order to ensure compliance with the quota. Point 6 of the draft law amends § 56. Paragraph 56 provides for a reduction in the permitted catch if the fisherman has caught more fish than he was entitled to the annual catch per pot. Paragraph 1 provides for the above to be implemented at sea and paragraph 2 to be applied to fishing on Lake Peipsi with an ink or sauce trap. Point 7 of the draft law complements the law in such a way that, in the case of ink traps, fishing gear can also be used only in conjunction with the authorised catch and vice versa, in order to ensure that the target gear is used. Point 8 of the draft law adds the specification for the Baltic Sea and point 9 of the draft amends § 58 (8) which is analogous to point 7 of the draft text but does not include a reference to the European Union control regulation and is applicable to fishing on Lake Peipsi. In essence, this means that if the fishing opportunities and the annual catches are allocated to another operator and the operator that has been used does not have sufficient fishing capacity and authorised catches in crate and ink, the catches shall be deducted from the authorised annual catches of the year applied for by the undertaking that has made use of the catch in case of overfishing. The draft concerns the organisation of fishing activities in Estonia's inland waters, which are not regulated by the European Union. The target group affected by this law is about 35 companies fishing for herring and Peipsi ink on Lake Peipsi and about one hundred fishermen. The amendment will allow operators to better plan fishing activities during the fishing season. The fishing season for Peipsi ink may theoretically last for about one month, beginning orientally from the beginning of April, and fishing for herring is permitted in half of July to August. Where authorised catches are established per fishing gear, the fisherman shall have the certainty to catch that catch in so far as the fishing season allows for this flexibility. Stability is necessary and important for the sector. This change in the management of fisheries mainly affects the work of the Environmental Inspectorate, which must increase the operationality of monitoring on water instead of ground control. The technical capability is in place for monitoring purposes. Focusing on on-water control is important in order to monitor compliance with quotas and discards of fish from fishing gear, which is a normal risk for so-called 'individual quotas'. The Food and Veterinary Office issues fishing authorisations and their organisation is neutral. No additional expenditure is needed to implement the law and no additional revenue is involved, as fishing quotas remain at the same level. In order to implement the amendment of the law, it is necessary to amend Regulation No 85 of the Government of the Republic of 1 November 2019 on the basis of the fishing authorisation of a fisherman on Lake Peipsi, Lake Lämmi and Pihkva, the Baltic Sea and the Gulf of Riga, and the fees for the right to fish by 2020, which establishes the annual yield per ink trap of Peipsi authorised and the annual yield per gallbur. The law enters into force in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U125	Thank you. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U126	Good manager! Good waitress! Perhaps for the information of the hall itself, I would also like to know how many of these herring and ink-catching fishermen are on this lake and how many of these caste murderers and ink murderers there are and whether the whole company is satisfied with this repair or why they are sending us distressed letters now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U127	Thank you. Let's just say that the caste should be about 20 and there are, here are 35 companies and a hundred or more fishermen. Indeed, feedback from participants or those affected has been different from stakeholders. Some have said that very right, yes, must be changed and much more forceful and much more forceful, but some have said that the matter must be left the way it is. I guess we discussed it in the committee. If the first reading should end, we would certainly like to see stakeholders once again in order to negotiate further. Now, if you look at the size of the extraction with ink traps, for 2019, I have such data that, as I said, there were 20 tonnes and 123 tonnes of watermelons. At the same time, in 2018 it was significantly larger, especially with ink traps, 355, no larger with casseroles, 153. Let it be added that, in fact, catches have fluctuated quite a bit over the years. Now, here are the figures for the last few years. However, we know, for example, that there have also been years in ink when nothing has been caught, and that there has been very little harvesting in the case of herring. For ink, catches have been such that there were no practical catches until 2011-2015, 4 tonnes and 4 tonnes since then, 355 tonnes in 2018 and 19 tonnes in the previous year. When we are talking about the herring, indeed, even the harvesting of the herring has been very volatile, for example 1 tonne in 2011, 3 tonnes in 2012, it was the years when it was between 10 and 20 tonnes, 45 tonnes in 2017 and 313 tonnes in 2018, which increased significantly more, and 303 tonnes in 2019. Indeed, the abundance of both species of fish in the lake is rather volatile, depending on very different conditions, both for reproduction and for the environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U128	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U129	Thank you. Maybe you'll be a little more specific about what these quotas are going to be given. The number of bitches has been different in different years, and you read here that 20 and 30 and then there's 300. On the other hand, I cannot imagine how the ink is being caught differently, but perhaps it is possible to catch other gears and the Olympic system is still going on there. I would understand that if a quota is agreed for one species of fish, the quotas will be distributed to the fishing gear and the number of fishing gear should be some kind of basis. What year is the number of fishing gears based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U130	Perhaps we would start from the back or from the fact that really, in the case of fishing gear, this is now an explanation of how this calculation is done specifically. I'm gonna find that section, that's what I'm saying. Wait a minute. I mean, first of all, there will be an overall catch of how much can be fished in a given year. Currently, figures for the quota of 200 tonnes of Peipsi ink and 170 tonnes of slag have been proposed by 2020. I'm relying on the data from the Ministry of Rural Affairs, where I asked for the data to be sent to me. Finally, the annual catches are really distributed to specific fishing gears. But, for example, in the case of Peipsi ink, indeed, as I said, about 1% think that comes with something else, by-catch. In the case of herring, the opportunities for by-catch are much higher and this is why some have not been shared at present. Indeed, this issue should be further addressed and discussed on how to change the system as a whole. In a way, Lake Peipsi has this kind of pilot app. It is ink, in particular, that it is relatively easy to apply it to the whole fish quota, and it has led to differences of opinion and questions in the case of herring. We are certainly discussing this between two readings, but really, when we read the letters that have come to us all, we have also admitted that there has actually been a real desire that the allocation of individual quotas should take place across the lake as a whole and that absolutely all the fish species that are being caught would be affected. There is, in fact, a debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U131	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also concerned by point 5 of the draft, that 44% of the herring yield is distributed among the caste bitches on Lake Peipsi. I have to say that in 2014, when an individual quota was allocated to dankers in the Gulf of Pärnu, fishermen also came to the Riigikogu and asked for it to be done, because in the conditions of the Olympic fishing, there was a situation where fish arrived at different times on different beaches. To this day (it is now six years) no one has said that it would have been wrong to apply the individual quota. However, I must also agree with the critics that the draft does not provide a reasonable justification why 56% of the share of fishing gear should continue to be fished under the Olympic method. In my opinion, a way of allocating this 56% should also be found to determine the individual quota. After all, the same bill also provides an opportunity to withdraw the excess quota from the quota for the following year. Why wasn't it used or discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U133	Thank you for your question. In fact, the reason that 44% is currently being divided by reference quotas is that, unlike herring, both in ink and herring, there is a considerable amount of by-catches when caught with other gears. It requires, as I said once, actually a review of the whole system. I'm in this mind here is a lot of interest groups, there are very different interests, that it requires discussion, negotiation. But you can only do it on a limited scale. In the case of herring, for example, it is true that the gear, the caste traps, is divided because it is focused on catching herring, but it may also be open-water traps or some other gear. That is why, as long as we do not have it resolved as a whole, it is not possible to distribute 100% of the herring as an individual quota. But it is now inside, however, that if there are by-catches or there are by-catches, then it will be calculated off. That's how I figured it out. It's in the current bill. We certainly have to analyse all fish by species as a whole, but right now we have taken up, let's say, in the first order, a little bit easier to solve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U134	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U135	Good manager! Good waitress! It's a good thing they've started touching it. But if you look at the big picture, there's a lake, there's two shores, fish swim back and forth, both ink and slag, but on different shores there are different systems and fishermen who live there. Somewhere in the Olympics, who in front, this man, and on the other side of the individual fishing. And now there's this half egg, so you could call this bill, that we're pulling the border to 44% or somewhere else, otherwise the system will be different. My question is, should we still look at the lake as a whole, because the fish do not know that the Russians on one side and the Estonians on the other side are catching, some have an Olympic system and others do. You indicated that this was just the beginning, but should we look at the lake as a whole and at the whole system of catching fish, not just ink and slag?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U136	Thank you. However, as far as I know, when the Estonian side negotiates with the Russian side, these quotas are being negotiated precisely throughout the lake. This method of fishing, whether or not it is an Olympic fishery or an individual quota fishery, is not rather a question of whether or not it is caught at 1000 tonnes or 500 tonnes; rather, it is a question of what period it is caught, whether it is caught within one week or whether it will continue for two months. As a result, of course, different economic interests also arise for those who have developed a very powerful fleet and for those who, on the contrary, would like to be convinced on the ground that, for example, they can fish continuously and also offer fresh fish to the market within two months. These are more of this type of questions or discussion places. Indeed, I am not familiar with the details of how this quota negotiation is taking place between Estonia and Russia, but I know that scientists are also involved, and I believe that they are still looking at the whole lake.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U137	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, After all, the farthest goal of these fishing regulations is to ensure that resources are used sensibly and continue for future decades and people. Hopefully, this plan will serve this purpose. But with regard to the impact of this law, it has been said that the Environmental Inspectorate, who has so far supervised and controlled fishing in ports, must now also do so on the water. Could you give me a little bit of a description of what all this looks like in practice? Do you have to go to every boat, check and weigh or something?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U139	Indeed, let's say this center of gravity is going to be more water. But we're thinking last autumn, when the news threshold was exceeded by fishing for bass, there came a lot of a place as by-catch, and actually the result was that some were thrown back and then there was a huge amount of dead place on the lake, because what has been caught once will not survive. This is unreasonable management and resource use. This actually means that in the coming years, we will have less time to catch the place, because we have just thrown it back and used it as if. Indeed, it also needs some discussion that today the situation is such that, in principle, a fisherman can come to land anywhere. Here's a point of wondering if we can still agree on certain ports where we can land. We know that there are perhaps 15 ports in which European Union funds have been provided to clean them up and develop them. Now, do you have to get to the country every two kilometers? This is the point of discussion. It's not regulated today. At the same time, it is as if fishermen, as these letters show, I would say, have been upset that monitoring of them is much greater than the coastal fishermen who fish by the sea. Indeed, it is also possible to implement modern instruments in monitoring, and I think this is certainly one of the key points, we should still think about it. These GPSs and the automatic determination of the quantities of fish caught are certainly a point of thought. But really, the Environmental Inspectorate does not therefore have to buy new boats, for example, which would be a very high cost. Actually, they have everything. Men and women would probably have to go to the lake more then. Indeed, considering the case of last autumn, the Environmental Inspectorate was still on the lake. Well, they're gonna have to reorganize their work a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U140	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U141	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Rural Affairs. You're on the right track. Clearly, it is the individual quota that solves the problem. On the other hand, of course, the problem is that if you try to catch one species of fish in such a way that half is an Olympic system and half is caught with a quota, it is confusing. Lake Peipsi is one of the few lakes in the world where some Olympic system operates, and if all fishing were with quota, it would not be the situation that you have to throw half the catch from the boat into the lake in the meantime, because some quota will be filled and one quota will stop fishing for other fish species because there are several kinds of fish coming into the net. I think that, in these discussions, the issue could finally be closed, so that all fish would be caught with a quota. Eight years ago, fishermen offered to have GPS systems on all boats and there are 13 to 15 ports where boats could come, and there are cold stores there to solve this problem. I wish you strength and strength. I didn't get the answer to what you're finally gonna do with the number of bitches.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U143	Thank you. It is a difficult question and it needs to be negotiated again. Really, we are now trying to start over with this and we want to invite fishermen back to the table and negotiate with them. After all, the goal is to have a functioning system and to have done nothing quite forcefully. However, if you look at how it is determined, it states: 'The fishing authorisation shall specify the fishing gear authorised, the fishing capacity, the fishing time and the place where the fishing activity is to be carried out and the annual catch authorised by the crate and ink trap [for fishing],... calculated in accordance with § 47 (1) of the current Act... ' Paragraph 47 (1) tells us that pursuant to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the conservation and exploitation of the stock of Lake Peipsi, Lämmi and Pihkva on Lake Peipsi, Lämmi and Pihkva on the basis of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the conservation and exploitation of the stock of Lake Lämmi and Pihkva, the Government of the Republic shall, by decree, establish within 60 working days of the allocation of the total allowable catches between the parties of the Intergovernmental Committee on Fishing in Lake Peipsi, Lämmi and Pihkva. It is indeed shared with this regulation on caste and ink traps. Basically, if you have (this is at least my understanding) the amount of catches allowed and the amount of traps, then it's a simple arithmetical equation. That's how I figured it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U144	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Obviously, a good colleague would like to know how this number of gears will occur in one year or another when the permitted quota fluctuates, i.e. how much anyone has the opportunity to catch, despite the fact that it is a simple arithmetic equation. But perhaps for the sake of the protocol, and for the sake of some colleagues, there was an interest: why did the Commission initiate this amendment, why did it not come from the ministries?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U146	I think one important reason is that Peipsi ink will now be caught from the beginning of April, also considering that it has been relatively warm, to say the least, winter, i.e. there has never been ice. If we'd had a decent rough winter and a thick ice, it'd probably have been a little delayed. Indeed, at the beginning of April, you may think that fishing for Peipsi's ink will begin. The parties sat together in December, and after that, the ministry came up with their thoughts. I would have the courage to think that perhaps one of the reasons was that when the Commission initiates, it will move a little faster. I mean, if the government were to initiate, it would simply take a little more time for it to get through with the change by April. But since it has raised so many questions and also requires fundamental discussions, I would say that it would be ideal if we could at least get to the point of Peipsi ink so that we could implement it this year, but if there is still a need for further discussion, these discussions must be held and a better solution found. Individual quotas could still be a longer target. And the world won't collapse if they don't make it this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U147	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In some ways, I agree with you that the performance of this government is not very great and the work of the Commission will certainly help here. But perhaps you will also say this to the Chamber (this did not work out very well, perhaps), which created disagreements in these discussions. You referred to letters from entrepreneurs. What were the basics? What were the arguments of the opposite party, why should this draft not be supported in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U149	I'd be happy to do that. I have also brought these letters, and I can quote a few paragraphs from here. I'll bring out both the negative and the positive sides. For example, the operators of the Commonwealth Fishermen's Association of Peipsi have said that some fishermen, due to the Olympic system, place more traps than they are actually allowed in this very short fishing season. This is a reference to the need to change this system. They give a whole series of reasons why this should be done. That's not exactly what Peipsi Fishermen and Fishermen's Association thinks. They think it's probably not a good idea. They say it's not very good. Here, too, these alliances have been accused of taking signatures and it turns out that a person is a pensioner and that there is no right to try. Well, I guess we'll have to figure out what's in here. But they say that there are 120 legal entities on Lake Peipsi that have been issued 200 fishing permits and that if this change is implemented, it is as if some of them are out of work. At the same time, their letters mention this for all fish species, for example, that most bass fishing is carried out during mutton fishing and that there is also a place with bass. This means that the author of the letter has remembered last autumn when they wanted to catch the bass, but since the place came in so much, they did not get the bass quota. In fact, they have put the emphasis on this in their letter, and they are upset as to why such a situation has arisen. We'll take the NGO of Sassukvere Harbour and the fishermen of Peipsi from whom the letter has come. They believe that the industry involved in individual quota fishing goes to monopolisation, some maybe, for example, they have been opposed to such a solution in the herring fishery. They have raised the question that part of the herring is caught by other means, ca half. I'll look at a few more letters. We have received the opinion of the full association Salo-Kala. They point out in their letter that Peipsi fishermen are very controlled, they have very strict rules on them, but they say again that they are in favour of reference quotas if no other solutions are found. So the letters are different, the reasons are different, but I dare say that one part has clearly said that let's keep everything as it was, let's not change anything. My inner sense says that the ink is actually a big change, and it is quite easy to do so, and that there is a hesitant view of the rabid. But a considerable proportion of fishermen say that we should look through everything and move forward more vigorously with the individual quotas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U150	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 136. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline of 27 February at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. That concludes today's first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U151	Today's second item is the second reading of the draft Act 116, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and Guernsey on the prevention of double taxation and the ratification of the treaty on tax evasion and the prevention of tax fraud. I would like to ask Kersti Sarapuu, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U152	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Monetary Committee, I will refer to the final vote on bill 116, which was as long a title as Helir just read out: the draft law on the avoidance of double taxation by income taxes between the Republic of Estonia and Guernsey and the ratification of the treaty on tax avoidance and prevention of tax fraud. The first reading took place on 15 January, while the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the second reading of the draft on 27 January and 10 February. The deadline for tabling amendments was 5.15 p.m. on 29 January. The members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft; there were no linguistic or norm technical amendments to the draft. The Commission made consensual decisions: to send the draft to the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 12 February, to consider the second reading to be complete and to hold a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U153	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U154	Good manager! Good waitress, first of all, thank you for a very meaningful presentation. Maybe you'll be more specific. Did the Commission also have a debate on more than 50 agreements with different regions and countries coming here in the coming years? It's a small island with nearly 60,000 inhabitants. Should the members of the Riigikogu not go there and see if the conclusion of these contracts is still reasonable and economically necessary? Perhaps next year's state budget should take account of the fact that members of our committees can go on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U155	Thank you, Mr President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for such a wonderful question. But as you may have understood, we send our secretariat leader, Tiina Licht, to dance there, she brings us the first experiences of this great small country. Then, I think we should go and check it out, because really, as you said, 60,000 inhabitants and 63 square kilometers, this small country in the Channel is a very big attraction. As I said at first reading, Victor Hugo has also written his excellent works there, and one of them was "Shuffled." So let's do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U156	Thank you. Done. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the 116 draft, and we are going to the final vote on it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 116 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Guernsey, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia, for the avoidance of double taxation and for the prevention of tax evasion and fraud. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U157	Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law 105 on amendments to the Sport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I would like to ask Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, member of the Committee on Culture, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I say that the draft law amending the Sport Act and related amendments to other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 November 2019. This draft provides the basis for the payment of an athlete's scholarship and sports grant. That's point one. Secondly, the Penal Code will be supplemented. Point three, a contact point will be established to combat the manipulation of sports competitions. And last point, the bill adds to the sports results database in the Estonian sports register. Let me remind you of some history. The first reading of Bill 105 was completed on 4 December last year. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 18 February last year, the political groups, committees and members of the Riigikogu tabled no amendments to the draft. The Commission prepared the draft for second reading several times this year: on 13 January, 20 January, 27 January and 10 February. The Committee on Culture proposed nine amendments to the draft text. I am not going to read them literally, but I am going to say that linguistic and technical clarifications have been made, or the wording and terms have been changed, so that the law can be understood by those who implement it. What is more important is that the Committee on Culture discussed at its meetings on 20 and 27 January whether to raise the limit on sport support. Representatives of the Estonian Basketball Association and the Ministry of Culture participated in the discussion on 20 January. The Estonian Olympic Committee was represented in a letter. According to the initiators of the draft act, the regulation in the original text has been prepared as a compromise in cooperation between the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax and Customs Board and sports organisations. It was such a general message. At its meeting on 27 January, the members of the Commission presented the views of the political groups on the proposal to increase the ceiling. The Commission considered it important for the possible amendment to be consensual, but as the views of the members of the committee differed, the maximum level of sports grant laid down in the original text of the draft was maintained. Finally. The Commission proposed to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 12 February, i.e. today. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U159	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U160	Thank you very much, Mr President. A very honored waitress! I think this bill will solve a very long-standing bottleneck. Well, these scholarships haven't been paid yet, and taxes haven't been paid, now, I think, it's gonna be arranged. So I think that for those clubs that deliver at Estonian level, this is quite a practical solution. It must be said that their tax burden is actually likely to increase with this bill due to the payment of social tax, but in the case of those clubs that represent Estonia at international level, above all sports teams, I do not know, one hand is left over when you count it, who actually carries it out, we actually take three steps back. Their tax burden will increase as a result. As the tax receipts of the State, both surprising and not surprising, increase with the approval of this draft, why did the exemption not consider for these clubs to be able to compete at European or VTB cups?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U161	Thank you for your question. Very good question and very good observations. We discussed this in the Commission, we even received a letter from Kalev Cramost, and the Secretary-General of the Basketball Association came to explain the facts. I have to admit, it's hard, we get it. If you make any exceptions, it's very complicated. I don't want to take my stand here at all. The general position of our committee was that we should stick to the original text. According to Taavi Pürn, adviser to the Ministry of Culture, sport actually needed regulation. Of course I agree with that. It is now my personal opinion that we could have made exceptions so as not to kill any sport very quickly. I absolutely agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U162	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U163	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am of the opinion that there might be an exception, but in general the development of the law on sport has taken a very big and clear step forward. This limitation of the scholarship and the provision of athlete support, as well as the establishment of a national contact point for example, is very important. But I'm gonna ask you a little bit about it from your own personal experience. You've been a top athlete yourself, now you're a sports lawman. We have a new regulation of the Sport Act on the table from 1 March. For example, as an athlete in your time, would you have been more comfortable and safer to exercise if there had been current or effective regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U164	Thank you for your question. I guess, in my case, I'm now looking completely from the top of my rock, it wouldn't have changed much. I understand that if I look at this bill right now, yes, a completely personal opinion again, that the individual athletes will not change much either. The biggest question mark is team areas. Especially as Toomas Kivimägi pointed out, it is those clubs that are affected by this, who go to foreign competitions, and it is foreign clubs that are very relevant to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U165	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U166	Good manager! Good waitress! Will athletes who have been awarded an athlete's scholarship be guaranteed all social guarantees when this law is passed: pension, health insurance and everything else in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U167	Yes, one of the advantages of this bill is that a sportsman is basically a full-fledged part of society, and just like a member of the Riigikogu, he can start collecting a pension and his social contributions have been paid, he can go to a doctor without worry, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U168	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U169	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Kristina! That's my question. I will continue on this subject, which my colleague Toomas asked about. Before the deadline for submitting amendments to this draft, the Riigikogu said in the corridors that the Commission could initiate such a draft so that the amount of scholarship paid to athletes would not be two minimum salaries, but four. As a result, the Social Democrats also failed to initiate such an amendment, assuming that it would come from the Commission in a uniform manner. I think a lot of colleagues in contact with sports will remember this story here. Now that the Commission has taken its decisions, this amendment is not included. Was there a consensus within the Commission on this proposal that we should not do so, or did there be any disagreements?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U170	Thank you for your question. Yeah, there were differences of opinion. In the Commission, a representative of the Socialists (Katri Raiki was not, he was replaced by Jaak Juske) and it was also recorded that he wanted this minimum rate to be three or more minimum salaries, and I, too, sounded a little bit. But the condition was that when I looked around what the proposals were made, and I saw that there were 6:4, then my mathematics said that it didn't give anything, and the circumstances remained that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U171	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U172	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! According to this bill, would 1% of MCs get a small tax credit if they paid a scholarship?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U173	Please repeat your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U174	Now, according to this bill, would 1% of MCs get a tax credit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U175	I'm very embarrassed, I don't understand the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U176	Let's keep going. Tarmo can ask you thoroughly after the big hall. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have this question, which concerns best practice in lawmaking. Since today's problem has arisen, right now, with those teams that are doing like cancers that have previously been touched, and you yourself have stated that you have a question mark up on some things, would it not be wise to look at it in such a way that you do not even have such question marks and that these teams would also be able to "peace" back on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U178	Thank you. That's a good question. I have to think about it. I don't know how to shoot off a hip like that. I need to ask the counsellors for advice on what the situation is. But, as I understand it, things are so far back that proposals were made and no disagreement was received before those dates. Basically, let's say this whole bill is still suitable for a larger number of sports people. This exception, as I said, could have been made, but now it's a point of reflection. Maybe we'll have to check things out after a while.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U179	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U180	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It started here with good law and everything. I see March 1st is the date of entry into force of this law. Normally, if the law on such tax advantages and differences is passed in the Riigikogu, then at least half a year will be granted for the changeover. The basketball clubs, which currently have the problem of [grant] being higher than the two minimums, cannot take into account that it should be different from tomorrow or March 1st, or other sports clubs that are specifically affected by this draft. Where or where did this date come from March 1?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U181	Thank you for your question. That is not what was discussed in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U182	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm still gonna ask you one more time, because it came up. I understand that there were wide-ranging discussions about the fact that it would still be possible to double the level of this athlete's allowance, either triple or quadruple, and at some point it seemed that there was even a consensus on this issue, so that it would be a minimum of three, but perhaps even four minimum rates. Can you tell us whose political will it was? This draft law is, in itself, very good and I am glad that it has reached second reading in this Chamber and, in the end, it will be regulated by the issue around which it has been going and trying not to say for decades to find out what these scholarships are and what the tax risks on this subject are. The fact that it has finally been finalised is grateful. But what if, in the meantime, there was a desire to talk about three or four minimums, whose political involuntary nature it was, that we are now talking about two minimums here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U184	Thank you for your question. In order not to lie a word, but to say everything honestly, it was basically that Aadu Must, in the Commission, expressed the opinion that he was prepared to support the alternative proposal once the Commission had reached a consensus on it. Viktoria's position was stated by the Isamaa Group that they wanted to remain within the limits of the minimum wage of two months in a calendar month, which is originally in the draft. Helle-Moonika Helme agreed with this, saying that since the majority of the sports circles were in line with this bill, we should not make any distinctions. Jaak Juske said that your group, the Socialist Group, would like to increase it to at least three times the minimum wage. I also said that sport is in the role of orphans, most of the money comes from the private sector, and the state is actually the biggest winner who gets these taxes. But I'm telling you quite honestly, I looked around and I saw that we were outnumbered, and the decision was so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U185	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I certainly don't want to put you in a difficult position, and I think maybe it doesn't qualify for it, but I'm asking you the same thing Aivar Kokk asked for. It is a principle that tax changes should be notified six months in advance. The approval of this law clearly results in an additional tax burden, but it is unlikely to qualify as a tax change. Obviously, this six-month notice does not apply here, although it would actually be very natural, because de facto these taxes have still not been paid and, due to this amendment to the law, they will have to be paid from 1 March onwards. This is not really very respectable, indeed, six months in advance would have been a good thing to report. But I dare say again that it may not qualify as a tax change, we will not change like a tax. Formally, maybe it's a hockey scheme, but actually, it would be solid to let it know six months in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U187	Thank you for your observation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U188	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U189	Ladies and gentlemen, Since I'm an accomplice to some sort of solution that obviously doesn't everybody likes, I need to explain the background a little bit. As Kristina explained, this bill was repeatedly on the table and, listen, not only in this Riigikogu, but also in previous formations. The basic discussion is not one or the other specific scholarship rate or something like that, but is a longer dispute about what things are state taxes, whether the state is ready, what are tax-free scholarships or athletes' fees and what we call fair pay if it is pay. There have been disputes and, above all, with the financial people, with the Ministry of Finance and also with the people of the Committee on Monetary Affairs who have said that when the Estonian state is ready, things should be called their correct names. Kristina mentioned well that earlier, before the law came to the Riigikogu, they argued and tried to make agreements and there were exceptions. Of course, the whole financial system wanted no exceptions. There were quite long and multilateral negotiations, where this much-speaked double rate was achieved. It was an agreement between the various authorities. Be the exception this time, the Estonian state may not yet be so prepared that everything is normally taxed, but we are moving towards it. And it was also explained by the financial people that, listen, it is not free of charge, if the rate of a sports club's athlete's fee is lower, that state money is in one pocket and that in another there is less in terms of tax receipts, etc. This was a situation where difficult agreements had been reached on this double rate. Indeed, I dare to tell you that the general mood in the Commission was that I wanted to meet more athletes, I would like to help, and at the same time there was also a risk of not only danger, there was also a clear message that if anyone comes with this proposal, we will get skin apart from why you do not respect the Estonian state's finances and the whole other system. So when you say, after hard deals, but we don't care, we want more of a message now, sometimes it doesn't work out. It was that simple this time. That is why the question was whether all the Members in the Commission dare to say in a consensual manner that we are going for it. And when it turned out that someone said he wanted to, but in his party it or it didn't agree, it just didn't work out that way. There are few such drafts in the Committee on Culture that will settle the matter until the end of time. You know, the world is changing so quickly, the world of culture, the world of education and the world of sport as well, we are moving step by step towards better solutions. That's how we move. It's a pretty good bill, which makes the situation much better than it was before. Let's keep working. Good luck to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-12_U190	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish for negotiations. There were nine amendments to the draft; we will examine them together. The first amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. The second amendment is tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment is tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The ninth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 105. Ladies and gentlemen, the second reading is finished, the third item is also closed and today's sitting is also closed. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 3.15 p.m.
