ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-14_U1	Good morning, respectable members of the Riigikogu! We will start the 14th working week Thursday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of submitting inquiries and draft laws. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-14_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The state budget, which is adopted every year in this Chamber, will not end its life when it is adopted. This is the guide that the government should act in the next year, as the budget is usually adopted in December. It is a plan, i.e. it cannot be very precise about everything, but it is still a guide that must be followed. This means that the government must, in compliance with the law, ensure that the state budget law is respected and, if necessary, make adjustments and, if necessary, turn to the Riigikogu. The report published yesterday by the National Audit Office indicates that the two governments of Jüri Ratas have not done so. At least the National Audit Office has not developed such an understanding, nor have I. Many of our colleagues have no reason to believe that the National Audit Office is wrong. But we're giving Jüri Ratas a chance to find out if he's actually done anything. That is why we are making an inquiry into a relatively narrow area in order to understand how the Government of Jüri Ratas and he himself, as Prime Minister, has followed the way in which state budget expenditure is monitored and, if necessary, corrections are made. We are waiting for answers as soon as possible, because this is an extremely acute issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-14_U3	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-14_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the critical problems of the current health crisis was and is to provide adequate protection for the population and frontline workers. In the first few weeks of the crisis, we could read in the media and in our mailboxes the cries for help from medical practitioners who reported that personal protective equipment was running out and that if they were not obtained quickly, doctors would not be able to continue treatment without putting themselves and patients at risk. Today, it is clear that the state's personal protective equipment supplies were not sufficient when the crisis broke out. Although the virus outbreak is luckily subsiding and the emergency situation is coming to an end, there is still confusion about personal protective equipment. It is not clear what and how much the country has acquired, whether the personal protective equipment obtained is of high quality, whether and when they have arrived in Estonia or when they arrive, how much the state's money has been spent for this purpose and whether it has always been feasible. This situation and the confusion with the means of protection cause people a lot of fear. The question also arises as to whether the masks ordered by the state, which are used by frontier workers, are still safe. Questions about the safety and adequacy of protective equipment are topical, all the more so as scientists have warned us about a possible second wave of the virus. In yesterday's Question Time of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas confirmed that ensuring the adequacy and better preparedness of personal protective equipment is critical in preparing for a possible second wave of the virus as a result of the first outbreak of the virus. That is why, on behalf of the members of the Reform Party, we are asking Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, about the procurement of personal protective equipment. Both the media and we have asked questions about this, but we have not received clear answers. Among other things, we want to know whether all PPE have certificates and are tested and secure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-14_U5	Thank you. There are no further requests for referrals and drafts. I have adopted two inquiries on behalf of the management board, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 46 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present; 55 members are absent. But I have to tell you, sadly, that there are no points on today's agenda, so the hearing is over. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 10.06.
