ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U1	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the second working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. As always, first of all, delivery of drafts and enquiries. I don't think that's what you want. Then we'll conduct a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U2	79 members of the Riigikogu are present and no 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U3	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the Chancellor of Justice 2019/2020. An overview of the activities of 2006 provided by Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise. But before that, I recall today's procedures. First, the Chancellor of Justice's report is up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask a single oral question to the rapporteur, the length of which is one minute. After that, there's a way to negotiate. Only the representatives of the political groups, as usual, will receive the floor for five plus three minutes or two minutes. I'd like the Chancellor of Justice of the Chair, Ülle Madise.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! I hope that, on this occasion, the Chancellor of Justice's work gave you an interesting reading. Of course, if you, your political groups or committees, have more specific questions about any chapter or topic, we will be happy, as always, to come and discuss and talk. No news that the Chancellor of Justice's job, at least in my opinion, is extremely interesting. I hope it's useful. It is precisely because our house goes through all of Estonia's life. Mostly bottlenecks, of course, but sometimes someone calls, thanks and says that something is good in our country, or that we got something well done with your help. When I was looking for the common denominator of our problems, it seemed at first that it didn't exist, but at one point I realized it was. Perhaps I am wrong, but it seems to me that the common denominator of these concerns is that the idea of Estonian statehood and the advantages of small statehood have sometimes been forgotten. Being a small country gives one very big advantage: if you use the words of Lennart Mere, then this country is like a little Eskimo kayak, you can always be flexible, the smartest and the best. It is also the idea of our statehood. A few years ago, Marju Lepajõe wisely said that the world was groaning under unification. In every way. In addition to the fact that Estonia's idea is to be Estonia, as has been said before. We don't have to go along with this one-up, nothing. When speaking about the great aims of the Estonian state mentioned in the Preamble to the Constitution, the protection of Estonian nationality, language and culture is mostly emphasised and very rightly emphasised, today would highlight internal peace and the social success and well-being of present and future generations as a great goal of Estonian statehood. However, we see all the same that these goals are, in any case, pursued by wrong methods, in terms of internal peace, social success and overall benefits for present and future generations. Perhaps it is not in keeping with these practices of bureaucracy, eternal processing, processing and rolling of strangers into our agencies; it is not really in line with the introduction of a policy style that instigates hostile camps. We just don't have to do anything stupid. I do not want to refer here to any particular official or agency, or even less to the political flow. After all, the noise, the sole purpose of which is to cause resentment, comes from every political spectrum. Moreover, in some sectors of our industry, wages are paid to cause deliberate resentment. All these imported procedures, imported styles, imported word and cultural wars, also look back on our desk all the time. We will try, then, to explain to the citizens who complain to us about their concerns, as well as to the officials and sometimes, if allowed, to political decision-makers in a respectful form, that the Estonian trademark and the guarantee of our success could be the joy of life and the courage of life, the ability to remain peacefully divided and, as a matter of priority, an official who does not process but resolves, and, of course, a policy that offers different ideas for development according to the world view, hopefully useful for Estonia in the long term. It seems to me that it would show responsibility for future generations, and also thanks to our predecessors for the beautiful Estonia that has been placed in our hands. What did we see last year's review? As I have always said before you, last year, the patience of very many people was put to the test of robotic bureaucracy, mixed messages and whacking decisions; parents, farmers, entrepreneurs, housebuilders, doctors, teachers and many others are still being put to the test, not only in the corona crisis, but also outside it. In fact, it is not difficult to get into the nature of the problem and always treat your neighbor with respect, even when he is in prison. All in all, it benefits everyone more than it seems at first glance. Well, really, in our own Estonia, we do not have to force a small producer to hire a separate person for paperwork. But it's coerced. It is not necessary to go to our own Estonia to read the peasant's sheep during the fastest time of farrowing. But they're going. Neither must businesses be confronted with conflicting demands. Well, it's not possible to maintain and dismantle the barrier at once. When a person asks officials, for example, how he gets the services he needs for a disabled family member or why the official has come and said that now, after 20 years, he can no longer be labeled 'Kurk, potatoes, honey' at the gate of his farm, the answer is often the same abstract line from the law from which all the crap started. In the right case, there's a demand. That is how we all stress and we must continue to do so, that our people deserve a vital and understandable answer to the whole question that they really need to answer. This, too, is very important to the content of the principle of good administration. Every day in the last year of the review, we had complaints that had a reason. And when we discussed how people were put into these situations, frankly, there was a feeling that no other explanation could be given if we had forgotten the role of a servant of the people who had been lost. However, it is not fair to generalise, because it is important to recognise these officials, and also politicians, above all, we had a lot of breaking and arguing here with the municipalities and cities who have been willing to make an effort, to correct mistakes, to change the organisation of work. They must be recognised. I also feel that imperfection is part of life, including governance, politics, and our authority. Whoever does a lot must make a lot of mistakes. And these mistakes must be corrected immediately. If this isn't a crime, then at least in our house, the principle is that we correct the mistake where we need to, apologize, and happily continue. Fortunately, given the amount of work, we, I think, have had rather modestly few of these mistakes. We are also pleased that our constitution provides for procedures for monitoring the sustainable, effective and rapid constitutionality of a small country. A procedure that will cause less trouble and result in faster results. So our system, unlike many others, provides that this council or Riigikogu or the Government of the Republic, which seems to have made a mistake in the implementation of the Constitution, can first be quietly corrected. Most of the time, that's what happens and there's no extra voltage in society. Things are gonna work out, people's rights aren't being violated. However, if any dispute reaches the Supreme Court, it is also a perfectly normal course of state life. There is no winner or loser at the Supreme Court in matters of constitutional supervision; there are only winners. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As every year, there is also reason to thank you for the numerous amendments to the law that may not have received public attention, but a number of human problems have been solved well. Just two examples. Our unemployment insurance system again became more suited to the employment relationship of the 21st century. Not that the troubles are solved, but this is a step forward, and many people have a fair solution because of you. Perhaps it seems a small matter, but children born with phenylketonuria were quickly granted the right to the necessary special meal allowance, which means that they will not be disabled. The thing is, these kids don't even get a disability when they get special food. Very reasonable, because disability and services for people need not be inextricably linked. I hope that the same debate on children with diabetes diagnosis will be faced here and will also find a human and useful solution for Estonia's future. In December, the Supreme Court granted the request of the Chancellor of Justice to declare the system of social services of local government unconstitutional and the failure of people. Still in style, an old person gets help when there's money and from Monday to Friday to eight to five, whether it's heating, food, or grass. Another and more complex side of the policy lies ahead in 79 areas and cities: how to plan the budget for this assistance and where to find people who are well and humanly supportive of those in need? It would be good if it were to become one of the important issues of local elections, just like the issue of nursing homes. On the one hand, we can see that very many are doing this emotionally and physically extremely hard work with great commitment. They often cope with very poor circumstances, poor wages, and little recognition. Often the summaries of our visits begin with this finding that it has been done as best possible, but unfortunately... Then comes a list of what's wrong. Good Riigikogu! The subject I have touched carefully here for five years is the dignity of the end of my life. Perhaps the question of whether a person could have the right to give orders in the patient's will in case he or she is in a state of clinical death, whether resuscitation or not. Medical personnel themselves say that it would be a great help if this area were to have a systemic and legally clear solution. Speaking of doctors, once again, one of the things we are working on together, and thank you very much for doing this: can a doctor prevent a doctor from taking a vow of medicine and treating people with a corruption threat? Our answer is no. And anyway, corruption is serious. So the suspicion of corruption may hang over the head of any decision-maker, even though he has not benefited or harmed anyone, in fact, the country cannot be held. A person must know what is forbidden and what is permitted. The doctor, in particular. His job is to heal, not to deal with the ghost knows what. Last year's review brought us a number of complaints about the closure of bank accounts. They come almost every day so far. Yesterday, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we discussed this very thoroughly. Perhaps it is worth considering that an independent verification mechanism still exists. Of course, every effort must be made to ensure that money laundering does not take place, that criminals are not assisted, but at the same time, the price cannot be that a person is left without an account, without the possibility of doing something to protect himself. That's how he stays out of social life. This cannot be an appropriate price for preventing money laundering. The agreement of the Police and Border Guard Board with the interpretation that the Estonians of Abkhazia, the successors of the optimists, who had once been granted the passport of the citizen of the Republic of Estonia at birth, must be able to maintain it. Those who care for their loved ones in the villages of Abkhazia work there as an Estonian teacher do not have to worry anymore. Thank you very much to the Police and Border Guard Board for the long discussion and end result for the people! There are still many questions that came before you, from the psychiatric treatment of young people to many others. Almost every area of work could be considered a 20-minute presentation, and I hope it will be an interesting presentation. As I said, we would be happy to do so separately. If you look at what's going on in society, I really believed that, for example, the kind of concerns that a person's interview will be stopped as soon as it turns out that he has a child and his grandparents do not live in Estonia are no more. Turns out it is. And that's something we all have to face together. So we explained to respected employers that, first of all, there is not even a question about this. If a person who wants to work has a child, they will be happy, certainly not interrupt the interview or send a person away. The same goes for a case where a person has ever had a connection to a criminal case, has not been convicted of anything, but can't work. You can't do that. Or the case, when a person who wanted to study a new profession and go to work was 65 years old, he lost professional training because he was told he was too old. Again, you can't do that. The promoter said that he just didn't want retired applicants to come. We suggested that, in this case, it is worth saying this politely, but not crowding out people who are fully viable from the labour market and from self-development, who would be willing to work. I am not dealing with the issue of Corona today, because you have already promised to report it at the spring session. Of course, if there are any questions, I will try to answer them today. At the moment, there is nothing but to emphasise that the Constitution also applies in the context of an emergency situation, even during a pandemic. There can be no double guessing. It seems that quite the same currents and concerns, which we also have in the Chancellor of Justice's office, looking at how to cope with this whole pandemic, have colleagues across Europe. We'll keep in touch, same problems everywhere. Or any other residue, if it is to be hoped that Estonia can set an example in this fickle period of science and decision-making, because what to do there is neither fear, ease nor excessive enthusiasm will be a good help in any area of life. The central task of the Chancellor of Justice is supported by the constitutional monitoring role, as you know, the role of the Ombudsman, the child ombudsman, the anti-criminal treatment authority, the supervisor of the institutions carrying out surveillance activities, the human rights authority and the promoter of the rights of persons with disabilities. The overview of all these works also introduces. We'll talk more about it if we have to. Over the years, we realized that the volume of work increased, and the department did not expand. I hope that neither the quality nor the speed of work have gone down significantly. Ladies and gentlemen fought bravely, just like a large part of our society, we worked in our home office in the spring alongside the teaching and cooking profession, pinching the necessary time for work at night hours and weekends. Thank you so much! I think that this has been of great benefit to Estonia and our people. And still, if we can, we can help. If you have problems in social life, no matter how small they seem, to bring them before us, if we can, we will try to solve it by using any legitimate shortcut and the way to result. And finally, technical news, which isn't nothing. We can now be applied in sign language, as a video. True, the beginning was bumpy, namely, the solution did not offer a picture. But it happens, it's okay now. Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a very thorough debate. Thank you for listening and thank you in advance for the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U5	Thank you, Madam Chancellor. You have a lot of questions. The first question to be asked is Urmas Kruuse. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In your report, you also mentioned rural and agriculture, and precisely how the administration intervenes at the bitterest time and carries out controls that are not actually very reasonable. Could it also be classified in the same area as the government's attitude towards restricting foreign labour in the shadow of COVID and, in my opinion, caused irreparable damage to the rural sector? This work in the shadow of COVID was in no way justified, compared in some respects to the Constitution and citizens' rights. The thing that stood out to the farmers was that when the foreign workers were in here and when one breath was in the wrong rhythm, it had to be sent out quickly. Do you think that such a manifestation is positive or negative, also talking about the expectations of businesses that they can develop their business and earn their income and operate freely?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U7	Thank you for your question. I believe that the political objectives of these decisions can be answered by the members and ministers of the coalition. As I said, what is good for Estonia in the future is a constant debate, and there are different concepts. Indeed, our authorities were confronted with farmers'disappointment, resentment, and complaints. We have explained that the limits of law and politics are running from where we are going to discuss whether the decision is wise or not, just or not. However, we have explained that, for example, the expulsion of Ukrainians who allegedly violated the conditions of isolation here, without the possibility of recourse to the courts and obtaining an independent judgment, is contrary to §§ 9 and 15 of the Constitution. It is likely that the lack of an opportunity to challenge will already go to constitutional review through the courts. If you don't go to court, it's my duty to come to you with this question. The point is, the constitution is unanimous. If a person is legally present on the territory of the Republic of Estonia, he or she has the right to apply to the court and obtain an independent solution from that court, in this case a decision as to whether expulsion, if they were healthy, is said to have really violated the conditions of isolation, but did not infect anyone, put no one at risk, was proportionate or not. So it must be a complaint, the Constitution does not provide any exceptions here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U8	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U9	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You write in the annual review that even during an emergency, you had to resolve the issues of communication between parents who were separated from their child. You and I are both familiar with a perilous case: today, one parent has not seen his child for two years and three months. He has also approached you, this parent, you have intervened and made a letter of formal notice to the local government. Are there any solutions to the question of whether the Estonian state can actually solve something on this subject in addition to processing, or is this a hopeless case if one parent simply refuses to show the child to another parent?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U10	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you very much, Mrs Kersna, and also several other members of the Riigikogu, who have come to know this type of dispute in depth and have encouraged us to address them. Indeed, we can check whether the bailiff is doing his job properly, whether the child welfare specialist is doing his job appropriately, that this is not a situation where one parent who does not wish to comply with judicial decisions is such an important man or woman in the local community that neither child welfare nor anyone else can actually comment to him. That's what we can do. But whether these meetings with children and the mental health of children are really taking place can't get between us by force. What can be done to ensure that such traumatic situations for children can be reduced or avoided in the future is the introduction of an agreement mediation service. It would not be called family mediation, for if Mom and Dad's teas have already broken up with a great deal of trouble, a stranger will probably no longer be able to reconcile a heated fight. What can be done, however, is to make it clear that children must not be involved in this fight. In fact, it also leaves a very deep impression on the soul of a young child, even if he does not show it, to the point that the child's psyche may be so disturbed that he will later become a person who, for example, does not tolerate or even physically attack men or women. There have been examples. This is an extremely serious issue. If there is still the hope that people who grow up from our children, who do well in Estonian society, create a family themselves, are loving spouses and parents, it is actually very important to leave the children out of this argument and to preserve both parents. If you, the Honourable Riigikogu, are able to place this agreement mediation service on your shoulders, then it would be very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U11	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Today, let us say, on the pretext of a crisis situation, the government makes such decisions as it would not actually do under normal circumstances. There are many examples, but one example is the granting of a loan to Porto Franco. Where does the legal limit for these activities go?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U13	Thank you very much. I know that the matter is examined by the National Audit Office within the limits of its competence, as their task is. I believe it is worth asking the Auditor General about this. We have reached the question of a member of the Riigikogu where parliamentary control can extend on this issue. The answer's coming up. Even if the material used in the context of the decision is not to be disclosed, Members of Parliament shall have the right of access to it even against their signature. There are previous precedents. I strongly recommend that the Riigikogu maintain a firm and protective line to parliamentarianism in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U14	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U15	President-in-Office of the Council. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Recently, there have been more frequent cases where people with perverse tendencies try to contact and communicate with their children with different messages. Basically, children have been virtually abused. Have you been approached by your parents with such complaints, and how do you think it is necessary to amend or tighten the law in order to contain those malicious individuals who want to communicate with their children in such a way and to show them things that are inappropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U16	Thank you very much. The problem is very serious and has reached the desk of our department, like other Estonian concerns. I think the solution can be complex. Parents can make sure that when a child starts communicating on the Internet, it is already low on the ground that what can happen, where there are dangers. If support is needed, it is also possible to get instructions from our house about how a parent can educate his child in this way. Secondly, we too believe that providers of all kinds of environments also have an obligation to assess risks in their communication environment and, if necessary, to intervene. Thirdly, if such a thing has happened or is suspected, then the help can also be obtained from the web constable. Our cooperation with web constables has been very good, and I believe it will help. Now the question is whether tightening up some laws would help to prevent such abuses. Unfortunately, we need to think very carefully here. When the Riigikogu begins to consider this, I strongly recommend involving criminologists and legal sociologists. It is often the case that tightening the law alone is not enough. If you imagine the law being tougher, unfortunately, even the cases we know today would probably have happened. Finally. Well, I'm glad we got to that. In connection with a certain carnival award in the summer, talk was spread, as the laws of the Republic of Estonia would not protect girls from the naughty advances of 60-year-old gentlemen. A person who reads the relevant chapter of the Penal Code as a whole sees that he does. In fact, anyone who approaches a child in this way, whether it be a girl or a boy, must expect that, if he gets caught with this thing, there will be a prison sentence for quite long years. So maybe there's a little bit of communication here. This talk, like Estonian laws, does not protect children from such inappropriate treatment, is simply not true. Yes, they do. Even if there is a very large age difference, if one side is a minor, this means that it is assumed that an addictive condition or obviously a lack of maturity will be exploited.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U17	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U18	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I will ask you about a subject that you did not address in your report, but which you have previously discussed in your reports. This concerns the fact that the draft state budget law does not allow for a decision on expenditure. That's what you said, and that's exactly what you said. The thing is, this situation has gotten worse. In a week's time, the state budget will be handed over, and this issue will be topical again. What is it, very briefly? The point is that the state budget is presented in the form of programmes, and the amounts in the programmes in turn are linked to indicators. But these indicators are long-lived, abstract, they're obsolete, sometimes there are no indicators at all. Perhaps the budget is presented in such a way that it is not possible to understand what amounts, expenditure and revenue are made up of. The budgets of cities and municipalities are presented in a completely different form, they are understandable to people, but the state budget is not. Things have gotten worse. I ask that if the draft state budget law does not allow the Riigikogu to decide on the costs, as you have said, whether such a situation is in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U19	No, it's not. The possibility of converting the basic law of the state budget accordingly is in the hands of the Riigikogu. In itself, innovative trials are not self-afraid or recommended by others. But it really seems that this 'programme-based' or 'performance budgeting' (or what it is called) has, at least so far, brought more bureaucracy. Parliament does not have the possibility to raise costs where necessary, for example, from an ad hoc capital or institution with a questionable purpose, or in support of palliative care or hospital care. The problem is also that it is often said that spending money can be based on the goals and purposes set out in the explanatory memorandum. Since the explanatory memorandum to the state budget has not been adopted in accordance with the law and is not a law, it does not really bind anyone. So if the Riigikogu took up and made the budget more understandable again, it would certainly be right. The Constitution says that the National Budget Act of the year must have an overview of all costs and revenues. Of course, not in individual sections, which cannot, for example, interest Parliament, that it should be possible to see and ask what is behind this amount, how much is going to be paid by teachers, how much is going to be done in the field of public health, for example. If necessary, it should be possible to increase these amounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U20	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U21	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! My question concerns the guarantee of fundamental human rights. Yesterday we saw in the 'Actual Camera' as well as on other television channels, how a former senior U.S. government official signaled, among other things, that they had the desire and will to interrogate the citizens of the Republic of Estonia. Did you, having also been to the meetings of the Government of the Republic, get any idea of this or have you heard that the Minister of Finance or the Government as a whole has concluded such a contract, or can you, by contract, grant the right to a law firm, a foreign law firm, to question the citizens of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U22	Thank you! I believe that without betraying confidence, I can say that when this point was discussed, I really asked what data collected in the Republic of Estonia, for example, through surveillance activities, is going to be handed over to private parties in the United States and outside the legal aid agreement. The answer was that there was no plan. But the circle of questions is right, and we will continue to follow it closely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U23	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U24	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! My question is also about today. In your report, you indicated that during the crisis, some restrictions have either been incomprehensible or have treated persons unequally. Have you already analysed, or do you see the problem here, that for nearly two and a half weeks we have a situation in Estonia where an Estonian citizen traveling to Estonia from a European country with a coefficient of infection of more than 16 is in an unequal situation compared to the person who is on the spot in Estonia? Since then, Estonia has been infected by more than 16. He must be under restrictions of movement, he cannot move, he must take two tests and still limit his movement, while the Estonian citizen in Estonia can have a higher rate of infection than he can move abroad, do not have to limit his movement or do tests. Do you see a problem here or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U25	Thank you! Of course, we appreciate these restrictions and their justification. Yeah, there's a problem in these situations. One of our principles is to try to be fair and, if possible, offer at least one way in which you can, not just say how you can't. In this key, we are also trying to contribute to the removal of these restrictions and to the patchwork. I'm glad that question came up. During the crisis, and even now, there is an opportunity to learn what general organisation means. The general arrangement is a regulation of a kind which cannot, however, be formally challenged by the Chancellor of Justice. We can challenge it within the framework of other competences of the Chancellor of Justice, such as the right to good administration, we can observe the general requirement of constitutionality, but there is no possibility to challenge the general arrangement before the government itself and later before the Supreme Court. All general arrangements must be challenged before the Administrative Court if they so wish. So we have advised people who are complaining about both deadlines and what can be required of the general arrangement and what can be challenged there. Indeed, many have not understood the difference so far, but hopefully this administrative court practice will start to develop in the same way as in other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U26	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U27	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! A very important topic for your 2019/20. In the 2005 Review, 'The State of Justice is in an emergency situation'. In this web review, you say, among other things, that the central and biggest problem was the state's ability to solve crises. Here there are very different examples of the speed, legitimacy of the solution, etc. You also say that, unfortunately, we cannot be sure that we are better prepared in the legal area to deal with the next similar crisis. Please mark what matters are most important here today so that we are prepared for this next crisis, even though in our heart we all want it not to come.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U28	Thank you very much. It is very good that the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases became true, late, but not irreversibly late, with the necessary clarifications and changes. COVID-19 was also considered to be similar to particularly dangerous infectious diseases, allowing quarantine to prevent the spread of this infection, and specifying how it is possible to partially or completely close schools, institutions of care, etc. However, this work is halfway through because, for example, the role of local government remains unclear. Local authorities must seek solutions from dozens of different and sometimes conflicting laws when reacting to local crises. So maybe in the view of the city and the parish, it's worth working the whole thing out again. The second issue, the same general arrangement that I already touched upon when I answered Mr Networker's question. There's a lot of ambiguity here, too. Thirdly, I hope that things will be better off in communicating restrictions. It is a good opportunity to explain that, for example, at the time when the Police and Border Guard Board decided to restrict the sale of alcohol at night in Harjumaa and some other counties, our position was not about whether it is good or bad, it is not my decision, but the question was that if there are various festivals going on, since Tallinn Music Week, and you are announcing in the paper that there is a ban on the sale of alcohol from today or tomorrow, it is, in fact, not being properly delivered to the addressee. The law on alcohol is inconsistent here. Maybe the police should have the chance to react in a flash, the government has it. But in any case, it wasn't there at that moment. So the problem was not that alcohol sales were restricted, but that the ban was not delivered electronically or personally to these festival organisers, nightclubists and others, but was just published in the newspaper. There was no legal basis for this. So this, too, is one of the most important circles of problems. At the moment, it also seems from the view of our house that the most important issue is teaching in schools. I have no better data than the scientific council that advises the government of the Republic of Estonia. In addition, I will try to follow the facts with great force on the website of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (within the limits of my language skills, German, English and, to some extent, French), and I will try to look at the official sources, official orders and decisions of other countries. I also communicate with my colleagues. Locking down schools and directing children's sluggish isolation: if, for example, one of the primary class children has been identified as being infected in the family as being corona positive, this should not result in shutting down the whole degree or even the whole school. This makes no sense, and it is very damaging to these children. The scientific council has explained that yes, schools reflect infection as opposed to society as a whole. But children have the right to go to school and have a warm school lunch, and the physical activity of children is equally important. In carrying out the task of the children's ombudsman, we also drew attention to this. Unfortunately, one child may be so mature when he is seven or eight years old that he can control himself and prepare himself hot food for lunch, and maybe he'll look after a smaller sister or brother, but then he'll be a very nice other child, 10 or 11 and maybe in the future he'll be a great conductor, a doctor or an engineer, but he's not so mature, he's got his head all over, he can't learn, he can't get warm food, he won't go outside, and he won't move. This is not the way to play with the future of Estonian children. Whether this distance training or internship, what it is called anywhere, can still be applied, without a scientific basis, is happening. The Riigikogu has the opportunity to review the laws with this view if it so wishes. Of course, e-learning is provided for as such, and it is very good, except that it must already be provided in the curriculum so that it is known to parents and known to the child. In fact, it is very, very fun when children are sometimes sent on their own to explore something in nature, to identify the path of running, to run through it, to take time, and to explain how fast the best in the world run the same distance. It's all very good. But you can't have one infection and then all the kids are left at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U29	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U30	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for still a very interesting overview! But with one question, nothing can actually be done. One might ask that there are suspicious surveillance permits in the North Precinct, but I'm asking the question. You said the world's groaning under one-sided, and you shouldn't go along with all those stupid things. Would you like to clarify what these things are that you shouldn't go along with, based on the idea of statehood?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U31	Thank you very much. That's a good question. I mentioned two in the speech. Firstly, it often takes over management and resolution styles, which are not aimed at a solution, but precisely at a procedure. With these strange leadership theories, I'm guessing you've all been exposed. Unfortunately, they do not produce results, but they do produce a lot of work and bread for bureaucrats, and the human concern remains unsolved. It seems to me that it is worth setting a very simple target for the work of officials in Estonia: it is not necessary to have such a subtle system of meters and reporting, and a system of evaluators and reviewers sitting on the back of an official's head, but it is necessary that all officials do their work very well, immediately actually, every day solve those things that are on their desk. I shouldn't be afraid that there might be some mistake somewhere if I came up to meet the farmer and let him sell his potato, honey and onions on the side of the road. The second thing concerns the immense sowing of resentment and anxiety. It's a global phenomenon, but it doesn't make society any better. People's anxiety is growing, their health is weakening, their ability to work is likely to decline, people are more unhappy. Maybe we can agree not to go along with it. I myself have been upset online by people when I say that life has to go on. Life has always moved on, even during wars and after wars. We also have a duty to our ancestors to take this life forward here as best we can. I've compared it to a car that lost control. One way is to put your hands in front of your eyes and wait to know what will happen. In my opinion, this is irresponsible and unacceptable to decision-makers and officials. On the contrary, if a car loses control, you have to hold on to the wheel especially hard and see how you get back on the road. It seems to me that this sort of anxiety and hysteria is crossing national borders. The scientific basis and reason will disappear, and we will no longer consider what we should do well here, why others have done as they have done, well or badly, but there will be enormous pressure to follow. On the contrary, such a crisis is also an excellent opportunity for a small country like ours to establish itself as the best, coolest and most powerful country, figuratively to share cards, to get compared to those who allow hysteria to roll over, the most decisive positions, the economic advantages, and, most importantly, to strengthen the vitality of their people. These are just a few examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U32	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U33	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, Madam waitress, for this very rational and meaningful presentation. It's like fresh wind in this hall. Most of my questions have actually been answered. Thanks also for marking the school subject, I think it is crucial. As a parent, it is quite difficult to respond to all this home education, where your rights are and where your children's rights are. It is a question of individual responsibility. In Estonia, this was the way that there are clear restrictions. Take, for example, the area of entertainment and commerce. We were talking about alcohol restrictions. In many countries, the responsibility of an individual is also very stressed when going to a nightclub or restaurant with symptoms. In Estonia, this has been a little backwards, perhaps more in the way of general bans. The general restriction on the sale of alcohol will soon apply. Would you bring this individual's responsibility back to the table a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U34	Thank you very much. I fully agree that this is one of the places where Estonia can be very good: explain to every person how he can protect himself, his loved ones and Estonia as a whole how to assess risks when he goes to one place or another. I have some pretty good information about where and how infections have occurred. Really, the people of the Health Board have been good here, they have so far identified the lines of infection, and that is why we know what the situation is in schools, what it's like with theatres, movies, concerts. For example, still in the theaters, and I hope that this will remain so, even if one of the infected has been in the audience, no one has been infected. The concerts are the same now. However, when we talk about situations where people speak very loudly, are involved, and when they really go out with signs of infection, the dangers are very great. Human again, understood. One thing is a serious, good theatrical performance, and the other is another kind of celebration, where these dangers may be greater, but there is a complete agreement that a person himself must appreciate the dangers of himself and others. It must also be appropriate to have certain general restrictions, which have been announced for a long time, clear, understandable. The important thing is that people are ready to fill them. The problem is that many countries already see it, that since the virus has not disappeared, despite the very high limits, the willingness to obey, the willingness to comply with the restrictions, has significantly diminished. This can also be seen in Estonia. For weeks, there has been no appeal to the Chancellor of Justice to say that more restrictions are needed, but that all are complaints about different restrictions. They come every day, and there's gonna be a lot of them. So it is vital to stress the responsibility of each person himself, the need to think with your head. The Estonian people are so smart. I don't believe that people think they can go to a funeral where traditions are respected and where everyone kisses each other and the deceased, and then they wonder why an infection occurred and say that there couldn't be an infection because the government of the Republic hadn't banned this type of funeral. It's a baby story. A man must have a keen mind of his own. The fact that a person does not go to work sick, that he does not cough on other people, could be a good habit and a duty of a decent citizen, both now and in the future. If it were possible that it would continue to be the habit of not infecting others, and if it were possible that even during the first days of illness, man would not have very much economic pressure to go to work before the corona test results, whether masked or not, then it would actually be very good. If this were to persist in the future, the health insurance fund would have a lot of money left, even to enable people to get the treatment they need.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U35	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress, thank you for a very good overview. I have always enjoyed how you have courageously spoken and drew attention to things that could be better in our fine country. But my question concerns the planned referendum, on which you also made several comments and interviews yesterday. I very much agree with your view that the issue of a referendum must not mislead the voters, and it must certainly not be contrary to the current constitution either. But my question concerns the time scheduled for the referendum. What is your position as to how justified and correct it is to hold a referendum on marriage on the same day as the local elections, given that it can draw attention today to the issues of local life, and given that the electorates are different?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U37	Thank you very much. The day of the referendum shall be determined by the Riigikogu in the decision to hold a referendum. Neither I nor anyone else can tell you, the honourable Riigikogu, what this day must be. The law states that voting day must be Sunday. This could also be the day of local governments or Riigikogu elections. In replying to the archbishop, who asked whether it would be possible to secure the institution of marriage with a referendum faster than in a year's time in the local elections, I replied honestly as always. If the question of fair state life is formulated, this referendum can take place at the earliest three months after the decision of the Riigikogu. Maybe not by Christmas, but any springtime when the Riigikogu decides so, yes. Of course, it is up to me, as well as the election committee of the Republic, to point out that if, at first sight and certainly in good wishes, it seemed that the reconciliation of votes would result in considerable cost savings, unfortunately this will not happen, because the organisation of referendums and local elections is different enough. Indeed, one of the substantive problems that, I believe, has received a lot of attention in all political parties is that if the Constitution only has the right to vote in referendums, the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, who are at least 18 years of age, are very precise and very strict here, whose capacity to vote is not restricted, then all permanent residents of Estonia, including people with long-term residence permits, citizens of other Member States of the European Union, etc., can be elected from the age of 16. So there is no need for much imagination to imagine even a polling district with two committees, two boxes, two lists and two hitchhiker tails. I believe that the dignified correspondents and photographers from many foreign countries will also come and record this moment. My job is simply to draw attention to it. I know for a lot of people in the decision-makers camp, this picture came as a surprise.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U38	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you once again, Chancellor, for the outstandingly clear wording of many complex problems. Your use of words can serve as an example for all of us. Thank you very much. My question is that one of these problems is the Supreme Court's decision that the social services of local governments do not comply with the law. You're saying there's still more to it than that. Do you mean with this more complicated adjustment that the tasks of local governments in Estonia are not sufficiently funded? Could local authorities also contact the Supreme Court that if the state gives them tasks and describes the quality of the performance of these tasks, it must be accompanied by an adequate financial allocation from the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U40	Thank you very much for your good words and for everyone else's! I hope I deserve them. Yes, if the local government feels that its financial guarantee, or the constitutional right to the budget for the performance of the tasks assigned to it by law, is insufficient, then the municipality can really go to the Supreme Court. There has also been and has been the result of, for example, the so-called Avandus Municipality case, where the state was indeed obliged to clarify what is essentially a matter of state life and which is a matter of local life, where the local government is merely a performer of the task of the state, and to provide for funding as well. Really, it's part of the complexity. The other side is that it has not been fully understood whether the funding for helping those in need of local aid must be provided from the state budget or from the local budget. This question needs to be clarified. Very often, cities and municipalities, to whom we think we are making justified complaints when they have left the needless without help, say that they cannot provide this service because there is no money, the state has not given it. It seems to me that this matter needs to be clarified, because the country is now based on the fact that it is the task of the local community itself. After the administrative-territorial reform, are all municipalities able to assist the elderly disabled to the extent necessary? We need to look into it. A uniform population pyramid, with families with children, income earners, workers, pensioners, people with disabilities, and mostly a similar percentage everywhere, has not been achieved and perhaps cannot be achieved. That's a good question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U41	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U42	Thank you. Madam Chancellor! In my opinion, one of the dominant problems of Estonian society over the last two years is whether there is partocracy in Estonia, whether parties can do everything. It has now also come to parliamentary supervision, and I think it is a constitutional issue. Please respond differently than this is a question of Parliament's self-control. We have two committees that must supervise the government under the leadership of a representative of the opposition, but the opposition is outnumbered. Current actions show that parliamentary supervision is being targeted at killing and voting months of work away by a majority, forcing the Commission, which has usually worked in consensus, to take decisions that deny the collected material, the certificates received from the Prime Minister to the prosecutors, simply by a majority. And there's praise to the government in the decision. Tell me if such a thing is constitutional.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U43	Thank you. According to the Constitution, the principle of democracy applies to all its forms of expression, limitations and advantages. According to the Constitution, the Republic of Estonia is managed by the Riigikogu, which alone has a direct mandate for the people. Unfortunately, the relationship between parliamentary culture, opposition and coalition can be determined first and foremost by the Riigikogu itself in practice. All I can add is that the people are even higher than the Riigikogu. Consequently, in the event of a situation where a constructive debate has become impossible and maybe a culture of suffocation and suppression of parliamentary control, which is not appropriate to our party system, it is possible to disclose such information. It is now up to the people to agree or disagree with such a course. Unfortunately, there is no better answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U44	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U45	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honorable Chancellor of Justice! With regard to the different emotional subject, the investigation into money laundering, I have a question. Based on the fact that Jürgen Ligi was the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Financial Supervision Authority in the years when the large-scale money laundering, the Minister of Finance and also the chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority took place in Estonian banks, is it not a conflict of interest when he is the chairman of the Special Committee on Financial Control? After all, the current situation is that the person is investigating the investigation that took place in his own jurisdiction. What is your assessment or opinion of such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U46	Thank you very much. I have not been to the meetings of this committee and, therefore, I do not know how to evaluate the management of the work or invited guests. There may be no inherent conflict of interest. I can confirm that from 20 years of observation. I don't know if that's the case here. But in Estonian society, the same people very often hold different positions. Although it may seem that, for example, the relations between the Director-General of the Finance Minister and the Financial Supervision Authority are cloudless and that the Director-General of the Inspectorate does or does not do what the Minister commands, this is often not the case. The same applies to the classmates, for example, who may be thought to be one lawyer, the other prosecutor, and the third judge, so it's probably a collusion. I am pleased that in Estonian society, people are quite independent and competent; they are also outside for their honest person and good specialist renome. But really, since I have not been to the meetings of this committee, I do not know what has happened, whether there has been an impartial and comprehensive investigation into the investigation into money laundering, I cannot say more. But here it is again that it is possible to make proposals that are still to be called, which are still to be discussed, and to do so in public, because there is no higher body here than our people, who will evaluate what has happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U47	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U48	Thank you, good manager. Before going to the questions, I am forced to specify the previous questioner. Crime is not in the hands of the Minister of Finance, but of the Minister of the Interior. I think members of the Riigikogu should be familiar with such a detail. But now the question. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Clear and well-argued positions are not always acceptable to all. This year, when we are talking about the annual review, there were also situations where you were forced to defend yourself against a pretty brutal political attack by one of the parties to the power union. How do you cope with situations where, in principle, every word that a politician does not like is attempted to be classified as interference with the politics of the Chancellor of Justice, probably hoping that it will be followed by a self-censorship by you? Doesn't that bother the job?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U49	Thank you. This is an important issue for our entire administration. Here I can confirm once again that we are doing our work in an independent spirit, with full respect for the people's mandate and their decisions, while at the same time not allowing ourselves to be shaken by this type of attack. If I may, I would really ask that if the position of a scientist, an expert or the Chancellor of Justice simply does not like, then that is why it is not only unfair to go after them, it is likely to be detrimental to the future of Estonia. Everyone does their job independently. In the matter of political intervention, I can put my hand to the heart: fortunately, there is no fair basis for blaming me. I dare you, I won't be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U50	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U51	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I, too, thank you, I would say, for your inspiring speech. My question, as quite often, still concerns health care. Here's two nuances for me. The first relates to what happened at the beginning of this year, when the Kapo officials held two leading back surgeons in Estonia for alleged corruption charges. This right is undoubtedly a kapol, but the question is whether the way in which it was carried out is, figuratively speaking, that the surgeons were detained from behind the operating desk and the patient was already running into the anesthetic, proportionate and what to do about it. The second question, I think, has something to do with it. Do you think that the current public procurement system is appropriate for procurement of very specific medical devices?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U52	Thank you very much. A very important question. We can explain to the officials concerned that we have also done so, that keeping people in detention cannot be based not on our working hours and perhaps on lunch breaks, but on a humane basis. As little as possible should conflict with the principle of presumption of innocence, the least possible damage should be done to the family life of the suspect, such as the feelings of his children, and the least possible possibility should be created for this whole action to take place in the form of camera flashing. Later, a person may be acquitted. However, as has been said before, corruption is, and must be, a very serious matter in public perception. What does a spouse or elderly parents say, or what do children say when their father or mother is thus demonstrated on television as possible corruption? This, I believe, is unspeakable. Such damage, if it can be avoided at all costs, must not be caused. Similarly, patients' rights and lives, for example, must not be put at risk. When a person needs to be detained, it is usually possible to choose a moment when it does not cause unreasonable suffering to other people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U53	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The clear word has great value in society, Chancellor of Justice. Thank you for that. There has been quite a lot of confusion in the Committee on National Defence in the context of the protection of personal data. We were also visited yesterday by the Chief of the Defence League. An organisation with almost 30,000 members is struggling as a public entity with the problem of not receiving information about its member's departure. When a member leaves this world, I mean that. We are faced with a problem where we are looking for solutions to find the person who will deal with the membership every day to understand exactly what is happening. My question comes from this area. We live in an e-state and we have a lot of data to use. Is this a legislative problem now, or where is this really a problem? We want such organisations to help us in emergency situations, but at the same time we do not get any data on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U55	Thank you very much. This problem is new to me. I believe that ladies and gentlemen on the balcony wrote it down, and I memorized it myself. Let's try to answer that. Perhaps now that the Data Protection Inspectorate has once again the Director General, who has also settled in (if I may advise you), it will be useful that this round of topics with him, too, our administration will be happy to discuss with us. We have also seen this inconsistency in the protection of personal data all the time. For example, on the one hand, through the land register, everyone's place of residence has been public, because for many of us, this is one place of residence. If you are on the management board of the building management company or are self-employed or for any other reason, even if you are simply the owner of this property, this information is known to everyone, even if you are, for example, an officer of the Defence Police Department. That's one side of it. Here, too, we have already skipped and asked for this practice to be completed. This does not mean that these data should not be available at all, but a criminal released from prison may not be able to see them. Maybe make sure you get access after you log in with your ID card. Indeed, on the other hand there are such things, when there can be no real problem with the substance, that this information is received, but you see, it is forbidden. So it's a very correct assignment. Thanks for that. We will also try to answer this specific question for our part. Perhaps it is worth looking at the area as a whole here. We see all the time that what is reasonable to permit is forbidden, and what should be forbidden, that is what is allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U56	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U57	Thank you, manager. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for a good report. I agree with you about the Ukrainian migrant workers, because they did not have any right to defend themselves. At the same time, the masters who hired them here have not even, as far as I know, been made a comment. That's it. But I am asking about unfair or equal treatment, for example, in the field of sport. We're allowed in from certain countries, and then suddenly we're not allowed in. Even the Estonian national team must play in Latvia and sing on Latvian soil to represent the Estonian anthem, the Estonian state. The same applies to migrant workers. It is possible to distinguish between groups of countries: countries of the European Union, Schengen countries and third countries. Shouldn't they have a level playing field? Is it possible to place one of the rates of infection on some countries and others on others? Should countries not be treated equally?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U58	Thank you very much. I know Aivar Pohlak has approached the Government of the Republic so that football national games can be held at home and safely. The Government of the Republic will discuss this, and maybe it will come to a decision. As regards the different treatment of different countries, the different treatment of these citizens when imposing travel restrictions, this is a very correct observation. The principle of equality in § 12 of the Constitution is in this sense very interesting and very complicated, that it allows people to be treated differently when there is a reasonable, relevant and logical reason for doing so. If someone can show why such differences are made, where there is a logical, objective, reasonable reason, then such an approach may be justified. The arbitrary treatment of someone worse is forbidden. But we'll keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U59	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U60	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! My question is about the organisation of education in Estonia. More and more families, especially those with Russian native language, are directing their children to study in Estonian as they consider the education provided there to be better. This is confirmed by the results of the PISA tests. This positive process also creates inequalities and problems, especially in Ida-Virumaa, where the quality of education in Estonian and equal opportunities for students have become a concern. What does the Chancellor of Justice see here as possible solutions to the problem in order to ensure that § 37 of the Constitution states that everyone has the right to be taught in Estonian? Secondly, have parents, teachers or schoolkeepers approached the Chancellor of Justice's office with similar problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U61	Thank you very much. Yes, they have been approached, not only in relation to school, but also in relation to kindergartens. And both ways. There are also Estonian parents who complain that in kindergarten a child's knowledge of Russian is developing faster than that of a native language. There are certainly examples to the contrary. But the problem is acute. Therefore, four or five years ago, I presented a written report to the Riigikogu about the need to ensure the best possible education for every child in Estonia, regardless of his place of birth and place of residence, to which family he was born, parental care or economic security. The same applies to the education of interest and the development of your talents. This is the best we can do for the survival of the Estonian people and for the general good here. It is difficult for me to give a specific recipe, i.e. what to do in Ida-Virumaa or in a region of Tallinn where the so-called segmented school system is held. What is really in the best interests of children is that, regardless of their home language, they receive an equal starting position from the Estonian public school. Of course, this does not mean that the stronger ones are being receded, but that everyone has this necessary basis, including the Estonian language's wealth and preferably two to three foreign languages in his mouth. These Russian-language parents who direct the child to the Estonian-language kindergarten and school have sometimes created better prospects for their children in Estonia than the children of Estonian-language families have. In any case, in several banks, I have heard that there is a conversation in Russian at times in the coffee corner. If there are two equal candidates, one can speak Russian in addition to Estonian, English and perhaps Finnish, German or French, then this is a great advantage. So if there is not enough courage and there is not enough agreement to end the segregated school system, then we hope for natural development. Let us praise what has gone well. Most parents want their children to do better than they do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U62	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U63	Thank you very much. First of all, Chancellor of Justice, I thank you for a pleasant conversation in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which was very pleasant and exhaustive. With my question, I will now go back to the planned public survey, but my question is not about the people's question itself, but about the conditions arising from it. That's what I heard yesterday when you analyzed this folk poll thing in one of the media and gave your visionary opinion. That's what you said, it's a relatively free interpretation, but more or less that's how it was, that you have to distinguish between two groups of people: those who participate in municipal elections, and those who participate in public polls. It is important to know that foreigners and non-adults are also taking part in the elections, but polling is so important that the Constitution provides here for the best response to ensure that voters are citizens, capable adult citizens. Here's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U64	But time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U65	It follows that these two electoral groups are different: those who answer important questions, they are adults and citizens with full responsibility, and others are non-essential issues, they are elections. So how do you see if we really have the law in place...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U66	Mr. Woodland!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U67	Could you see that you could unite these electoral groups, either on one side or on the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U68	Thank you. Perhaps the choice of words failed when such an impression was made. I have always tried to explain that it is also very important to elect a local government or a municipal or municipal council. And especially this time, as the results of the administrative-territorial reform are essentially assessed. [Knowing] that, for example, the Treaty of Accession has been violated in many municipalities and cities has also reached our home. There's been a lockdown of schools that weren't allowed to be closed down. When it comes to school transport, there are cases where it is really believed that a teenage child has to get up at 5:00 in the morning to get to school by 8.15 and go back the other way in the evening, which is why the municipality is now bigger and stronger and should, on the contrary, consider that a normal teenager lives just as he can and in the way he lives. We've all been at this age, and younger children will be there. Everyone knows that such a drill for a teenager is neither appropriate nor effective. 9:00 p.m. to bed? From a certain age, it just doesn't usually work out that way. In short, everything that has happened, plus the different fees for nursing homes, etc., must be able to be assessed by the voter. So this time, these local elections are still particularly important. I have always stressed that if you care about what happens to your city or municipality, whether the sea and river banks are being cleaned up, whether parks are being made, what the city's central square is, what the welfare system is, then you have to take part in local elections, participate in the idea and maybe as a candidate, but you definitely have to choose. So they're certainly not insignificant. The reason why there is a wider electoral circle is precisely because these are not matters of state life that are decided but of the life of the local community. In general, it is considered to be a good practice across Europe that the number of persons entitled to vote is then wider. Now a referendum. It seems to me that I emphasised this, but then I chose the words wrong, that the referendum is provided for in the Estonian Constitution in a very fair, clear and strict manner. A circle of persons with a right to vote has been established accordingly, so that it cannot be extended by law. It cannot be narrowed, it cannot be extended. These are indeed citizens of the Republic of Estonia of an adult age, whose capacity to vote is not restricted. The point is that the question of a referendum, or the draft law that will be put to the vote, must be clear, and the answer that will be given is to be fulfilled. If a draft law amending the Constitution or any other draft law is adopted, the amendment shall be entered immediately in that law. For example, marriage is a union between a man and a woman. If it is put in the form of a draft, then the referendum will really result in the institution of marriage being assured by the fact that the addition will be entered in the text of the Constitution. If there is a desire to put the question of honest state life to the vote, such as whether marriage must remain a man-woman union, answer 'no' or 'yes', then the result will also be binding. Perhaps the current family law, which states in § 1 (1) that marriage is to be concluded between an adult man and a woman, and § 10 of which states that same-sex marriage is invalid from the outset, cannot be amended on the basis of the decision of the people. If anyone comes up with that, it will be declared unconstitutional. So the decisions that are made in the referendum in Estonia are binding, very serious decisions, which are also a restriction on the Riigikogu and which are a duty to the President, the Chancellor of Justice, the courts, the Government of the Republic. So I may have tried to emphasise that, like the Riigikogu elections, the referendum is only provided for in the Constitution by the participation of adult citizens of the Republic of Estonia. In the case of the election of a local government council, § 156 of the Constitution leaves the possibility of extending the electoral circle.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U69	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Chancellor of Justice! Yesterday the American lawyer Louis Freeh appeared in the 'Actual Camera' and said, among other things, that he wants to begin his task, that under the mutual legal assistance agreement between the US and Estonia, Estonia will be able to receive part of the funds that the US Government will receive if it punishes Nordic banks and receives large sums of money from them as fines and withdrawals. 'I want to make sure that Estonia is able to obtain these funds. ' My question. Firstly, I do not know at all whether Estonia has concluded a legal aid agreement with the US in this particular case. At the same time as I look at the principles that should apply to this agreement that has ever been adopted between the US and Estonia, I do not find any possibility of withdrawing fines or distributing fines there. I may see the possibility of sharing the proceeds of crime or the means of committing the crime may be a question of how to share, but I do not find the sharing of fines. Am I wrong? In case there's no chance, why do we need this lawyer? In case it's clearly in the law, the question is, why do we need this lawyer?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U71	Time's up. It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U72	Thank you very much. I believe that your colleagues in this Chamber, in particular Mr Ligi, can say more precisely what is stated in the agreement. I personally have not read this agreement at the moment in connection with the possible transfer of data collected in Estonia in connection with surveillance activities. It cannot be ruled out that this must never be done. But there's nothing else to say but that an ex can ask and you don't have to give everything. At the same time, members of the Riigikogu must have the right to access the materials for allocating money to Porto Franco or the contract concluded with the Office of Louis Freeh. Provided that they do not disclose its contents. The state of Estonia is governed by the Riigikogu. Regardless of who is in opposition or coalition, questions of this kind must be open to members of the Riigikogu for evaluation. So I think you're smarter here than I am, but if I have to, I'll try to get smarter too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U73	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U74	Your Honor, Chancellor! Estonia is a secular state. Of course, we also have believers and people of very different religious backgrounds. It seems to me that from time to time, some standards are imposed on the atheists or that they want them to act in accordance with the conditions of a religious settlement or a religious flow. I note that some religious divisions or streams impose different things on other people of another religion. I also note that religious organisations have an unexpectedly strong influence on some issues of state life. I'm asking you to explain where this border is and how to perceive it or whether we've crossed that line.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U75	Thank you. That's a good question. The Constitution says that there is no state church, and also that freedom of religion is guaranteed. There was a very interesting discussion on this subject at the opinion festival in Paide, where I explained, as I have explained to you, that freedom of religion means not only freedom to choose a church close to the soul, but also the right not to believe. Sometimes you don't understand it, but it is. Although, it is not a question of whether there is even a person without faith. It is common knowledge for many to know that there is often a more secret bond here, that is a human matter, and that is the essence of this religious freedom. Are the views and holidays of a particular church excessively imposed, linked to national activities? There have been complaints about this, and there have also been complaints from parents about Christmas concerts, for example, or about religious education at school. If children are taught religious teaching at school, i.e. even five major religions and their links to human psychology, culture, politics and well, then we have explained that this is acceptable and even good. The case law of the European Court of Human Rights also says here that no parent has the right to demand that a child is not taught philosophy or religion at all at school. A parent can demand from a public school that the child is not directed towards a particular philosophical or religious flow and especially not at the threat of a grade or approval or resentment. But with the actions of state life, it is true that here, I feel, no law can draw any very specific or more specific line than what we have in the Constitution. If there seems to be a crossing of the border, we will be happy to analyse these specific cases separately, just like religious teaching and Christmas concerts in the church.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U76	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U77	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for your clear and very interesting insight and, of course, for the in-depth material that you certainly cannot grasp once you read! You have to read them a bunch of times, and you always find something exciting. My question concerns children, whether they have special needs or psychiatric concerns. I would have asked you about the law on psychiatric assistance today, but an hour ago, I got a call from a community child welfare officer who was very worried and asked me to ask you this question. Since I've been elected here as a vigilante to ask people questions, I'm going to make sure this time I'm not asking my own question, but I'm going to ask the question of this child welfare officer. It is now a situation where the child can live with his or her grandmother, and the mother lives in a different municipality and the father lives in a third municipality. Child welfare workers find it very difficult to solve these problems between the three municipalities. Cooperation is good, but nevertheless: who has a responsibility, who has rights and who finally takes responsibility? Is this situation normal or should we change the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U78	Thank you very much. Today's second question, which I am not risking answering here, but I would ask our specialists to look at and send you an answer. But I'm taking this opportunity to thank the young people for taking the lead on the bill for psychiatric assistance, Mrs. Hunter. This is extremely important. I repeat that the idea is not to exclude parents from treating their child's potential mental problems, but to the contrary, in most cases the parents are important players here and should be. These threats, as Mrs Kingo referred to when we discussed this in the EKRE Group, are certainly present and must be taken into account in the creation of this regulation. Unfortunately, life in Estonia has also gone through divorce, perhaps one parent is no longer available or does not care about the child's welfare or gives the necessary consent, maybe he has moved away. Sometimes one of the parents, for example, thinks that when a child receives psychiatric assistance, it puts a stigma on his forehead for life, even though that is not the case, and therefore does not consent. Sometimes the reason for the child's need for help is in the family itself, and it is clear that these parents do not consent and maybe you shouldn't even know about it, maybe there are police issues. In these exceptional cases, children's psychiatrists should have the right to make a decision and, where necessary, to provide assistance in order to avoid suicides, persistent health risks associated with eating disorders and much more that experienced child psychiatrists see. I very much hope that the Riigikogu will move forward effectively with this topic this season.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U79	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U80	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Today, Parliament's ability to control the work of the executive has been a subject of many times here. If such a situation has arisen where it is not very effective, then, you have claimed, it is possible to turn to the people, or to the highest, power. Are you going to enlighten us a little bit about what this is legally or what it might look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U81	Thank you very much. I believe that you are more experienced and skilled in this matter than I am, for example. But it is often helpful to disclose the problem in an understandable way and to convince people that as it is, it is not good and can do better. Unfortunately, there's no better way. A country where someone with binding powers would settle the differences between the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups, the Constitution does not allow, and I do not know whether there is any reason to want.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U82	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U83	Thank you very much. First of all, Chancellor of Justice, I would like to thank you very much for the technical but also very, very substantial and important news that you said at the end of your speech that you could be presented in sign language. I think that other public authorities, social security forms, health institutions, municipalities, etc. should quickly follow this example. But I want to ask you something else about international sports competitions and the organisation of cultural events. Is it acceptable from a legal point of view if the government allows one event to take place under strict restrictions, but does not allow others? How does this unequal approach seem in your view?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U84	Thank you very much. Just as it seems to be unsightly in the eyes of the people and in your eyes, which are reflected here by a number of questions, nor does it look good in our eyes. Once again: if there are logical and clear reasons, this is not an arbitrary restriction, it is likely that this restriction is legitimate; if it is an arbitrary restriction, it is not legitimate. It is possible to challenge the general arrangements by which these restrictions are imposed, as well as the absence of possible exceptions. But, and once again, in an attempt to understand the workload of ministerial officials, I do not understand why, as far as I know, such a comprehensive solution has not come before the Government of the Republic. Pretty much every time we discuss three cyclists, one volleyball team and two football teams, the Government of the Republic cannot decide. However, we actually have months in advance of international sporting and cultural events, we know about collectives and teams and individual contestants who are involved in international competitions, and it is possible to decide this thing on a uniform basis. Blaming the decision-makers, or the Government of the Republic, does not seem fair, because at least I have not seen anyone see it, I would also look at the proposal of the relevant responsible ministry to impose uniform, justified restrictions and measures on the Government of the Republic to protect public health, but also to support sport and cultural life.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U85	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U86	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! On the day of the resistance, we should say that we must be consistent in all things. So I'm not bringing in a new topic, I'm talking about the last emergency. You were approached by a letter saying that if we had to keep distance, one product in the Republic of Estonia was not allowed to be sold at a distance, which had only lasted two months. At the same time, it was possible to order both alcohol and tobacco at home. Could this national ban on distance selling for e-liquids be lifted in an emergency if we mean that e-liquid store employees also have the right to live a contactless life while doing their own daily work?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U87	Thank you very much. Thank you also for the strong leadership of this issue in the Riigikogu. Indeed, the rule of law does not include restrictions that are done arbitrarily and because someone or something likes or does not like it. Well, I'm glad it came up. I would like to congratulate the Riigikogu on the fact that you dared to change the law and have taken up the question whether it can be that the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia, which has the right and obligation to run the state by exercising its free mandate, cannot decide on certain important issues, because, for example, the Government of the Republic or a ministry or an official does not provide the European Union with the necessary documents in due time or does not mediate the answer. It is also a question of whether a national representative must be guided by the guidelines of a European Union official who is not at the level of the Commission or of the Council, even at the level of Parliament. However, mediation must certainly not be a barrier to the exercise of a Member's mandate. Thanks for the job.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U88	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U89	Good Chairman! Honorable Chancellor of Justice! In your speech, though briefly, you mentioned in one sentence that it would not be possible to repair the dam and at the same time to dismantle it. My question is: do you mean one particular problem or are there more problems in Estonia? The question is not meant to be a joke, because I am familiar with one such case in Kadrina municipality on the River Cancel. If this is the same situation, how has it been resolved? If it is not the same, what is happening to these topics across Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U90	Thank you very much. Very good and very painful for entrepreneurs. We've had complaints about two things that aren't the same as Kadrina's case, but they're now billing it right here, and we're going through it. One was Hellenurme and the other is Linnamäe. It cannot be that the company has absolutely no chance of being legitimate, because the National Heritage Board says that it cannot be demolished, and environmentalists say that it must be demolished immediately. There's a guarantee of non-compliance. With regard to Hellenurme, the Riigikogu made an amendment to the law which would enable the state to solve this problem without forcing the company to be the one whose only way to keep its company and live life is to break the law, either that or the other one can choose between this fine or the other one. Actually, it's possible to agree. For some reason, so far, these agreements have not been made, but for our part, we continue to keep an eye on it, in figurative language, to keep the fire down on the boiler.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U91	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Chancellor, I would like to address you with a question concerning Louis Freeh. As we know, it's no secret, through the press, our good colleague Jürgen Ligi told us that Louis Freeh is an agent of the Kremlin. In view of the fact that such statements have come, and also in order to dispel the tensions that have arisen as a result of this statement, I asked Jürgen Ligi to provide evidence that Louis Freeh was an agent of the Kremlin. Jürgen Ligi as a good colleague of course replied to me, but his answer was very laconic: political opponents do not share tasks with me. I do not think that such an answer is in the direction of democratic parliamentary work. Or how do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U93	Thank you very much. Above all, I can explain the meaning of the provision in the Constitution, which says that a member of the Riigikogu does not have legal responsibility for statements in this Chamber of the Riigikogu or in committees or other bodies of work. This does not mean that there can be no moral responsibility, and I hope that everyone wants to gain approval and be a good person. Whether this person, I mean Mr Freeh, is that or the other, I cannot say or mediate. Listening to your question, I saw Mr. Ligi shaking his head about not saying anything. I haven't been watching it so closely that I can think about what it was like here, and I don't seem to be your middleman. I have also noticed, however, that sometimes this transcript, which appears somewhere, was done with the best of will, but it does not quite reflect what I was thinking. It has been simplified, which is certainly good, but the result that came out of it is unfortunately wrong and therefore bad. But once again, what's it like here, unfortunately, I can't tell you. If you don't mind, maybe you can get this out of the evidence, if you need it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U94	Madam Chancellor, there are no further questions for you. I thank you for your report and your answers. Let's go to the negotiations. The call has been made by Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U95	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Chancellor of Justice, first of all, thank you, of course, for the report and also for the report! I think the most important thing is that the Chancellor of Justice is dealing with the real problems of the real people. I really like the philosophy of the Chancellor of Justice that you're solving, not processing. I very much hope that this attitude will spread to other institutions as well. When I was a lawyer, I once hired a man from a state office. It was very difficult for him to deal with. But the lawyer isn't paid for just processing, he wants solutions: if he doesn't get it, then how does he get what's possible where a person gets help? Now, about the subjects. The circle of topics is, of course, well broad, which is set out in the report, and the circle of topics you face during your work is also wide. But I bring out three important things. Firstly, defending the rule of law, of course. I believe that the rule of law is more at risk now than ever. Perhaps it is necessary to follow the rules, to do as agreed, and these rules apply to everyone, regardless of whether you are close to power or not. Secondly, one very important issue that is also highlighted in the report concerns children and parents. When I go to schools and ask you what your main problem is, very often people answer: the main problem is children from broken families. Similarly, when I went to court, the courts were complaining that they no longer deal with justice very much, but especially in family matters, as if they were social workers in civil matters. This means that when families arrive in court, their relationships are so capitulated that Mom and Dad will no longer fit in the child's graduation photo together. And it's a massive trauma for a child, a child loves both of his parents. Unfortunately, families are different, not all marriages last, not all marriages last, but children are born from these partnerships too. And what happens to those kids when the relationship hasn't worked? I therefore very much support the idea that there would be a system of mediation before disputes are brought to court. Like I said, when they get to court, it's gonna be really hard to reconcile parents. Children suffer. Children are the ones who pass on to our society, who pass on how healthy we are as a society. Just in case, I'll ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U96	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U97	Thirdly, bank accounts are a very important issue for the functioning of our economy. Indeed, we too have received a great deal of feedback from entrepreneurs and people whose bank accounts are simply closed or to whom bank accounts are not opened at all. But in today's world, it is not possible to engage in entrepreneurship if you do not have a working bank account. We really do not want us to move back towards cash settlement. I think most trading partners are not prepared to settle in cash either. We shouldn't go back in time. I am therefore very pleased that the Chancellor of Justice is also actively seeking the point of the problem, where there is the centre of gravity of this problem, whether there is anything we can do to ensure that money laundering requirements are met equally, but at the same time businesses are not being harassed in such a way that they cannot act. For all these things, I believe I can speak for my colleagues. We are certainly prepared to look for solutions to help people overcome these problems. If there are such a number of problems, there are the same types of problems, then it should probably be regulated at the legislative level. We are prepared to cooperate fully. We wish the Chancellor of Justice a great deal of strength. And once again, thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U98	Thank you. Siim Pohlak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Good people, people's servants! Thank you to the Chancellor of Justice for a meaningful and lively overview and a balanced presentation. From the Chancellor of Justice's thesis, I heard references to unreasonable bureaucracy and the idea that national and local government officials tend to forget that they are primarily at the service of the people. In rural languages, I would say that the servants of the people, just like we are in this Chamber. I would extend this issue of the alienation of people and power to Parliament, and I would note one of the root causes of the problem. In recent days the media have received a lot of attention, and among the questions addressed to the Chancellor of Justice today, the issue of the popular survey on the concept of marriage was repeatedly discussed. In my opinion, polls and referendums are one of the best ways in which the Riigikogu or why not the local government can ask their employer, the Estonian people, for the clear will or position of the majority of the people on a specific and important issue. This opportunity is, in fact, used very little in Estonia. I would argue that the lack of referendums and polls, i.e. weak or non-existent direct democracy and, as a result, the sense of people that they are independent anyway, we have one of the root causes and expressions of the alienation of the people of power, both at national and local level, which really needs to be resolved. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I wish the Chancellor of Justice a great deal of strength and success. And once again, thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U100	Thank you. Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U101	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Your Honor, Chancellor! Good fellows! Thank you very much to the Chancellor of Justice for the review. If I tried to fit what I wanted to say for a short time about what's in the review and what's in my heart, it would result in me not talking about anything. That's why I'm picking just a few items that are touched on in the review. The Chancellor of Justice, Ülle Madise, has presented both positive developments and issues that need to be resolved in a balanced way. However, I, in the face of a lack of time, am only talking today about concerns and what needs to be resolved. Apparently, in September-October last year, no one thought that there was a chapter in the review that reflects the rule of law in an emergency situation, the actions of the state, local governments and people in a situation where restrictions changed their lives around the world. It would be more accurate to say that the whole world had changed, turned upside down, and consequently there was fear and ignorance of the evil virus, which had neither the cure nor the vaccine to prevent it. The restrictions imposed by fear, however, led to a balance between reasonable and unreasonable restrictions and deprivation of freedoms. For example, older people and those in special care were in some institutions for months without the possibility of meeting close relatives, and in some institutions also without the possibility of receiving packages from home. Although the latter has never been banned by the Health Board, on the contrary, it has been suggested that this possibility be used safely, after leaving the packages for 72 hours, to maintain a measure of home feeling and positive emotions. It is very clear that the desire to care for and care for our elderly people must not take any self - determination from them and even make them an object. It is not worthy of holistic human treatment or dignified old age. Sadly, the loved ones saw their ancestor or father only in a coffin after he had left in a nursing home because of the exacerbation of the chronic illness or his failure to observe it, or died not of the crown virus, but of emotional grief, longing. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia provides for the right to state aid in the event of old age, incapacity for work, survivors and deprivation. The conditions and procedure for receiving this assistance must be laid down by the Riigikogu in accordance with the Constitution. The Riigikogu has a major role and right here, as well as a duty. Unfortunately, when reading the Chancellor of Justice's review, it was noted that elderly people and children with disabilities have been left largely unattended by the state. The Constitution states that they should be under special care. The state must ensure a decent life for all members of society, especially for those in special need due to their status. I fully agree that it is the Riigikogu that is right in a parliamentary democratic state, but also the duty to take the lead in seeking and finding solutions to the problems that exist in society. I'll just give you a few examples. I touch here on the draft Act 115 on Supplementing to § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act, which the members of the coalition have left after the first reading, not even on the agenda of the Social Committee after the beginning of the autumn sessions and the work of the committees. The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee does not dare to bring the draft to the Chamber for second reading so that, then, democratically, by means of a vote, the colleagues can show their support or no support for it. At the same time, the draft law has been supported by both the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Population, at least in words at the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, but unfortunately not at coalition meetings, because otherwise it would have already been brought to the hall and the members of the Riigikogu would be able to do their job. No proposals were even submitted on this draft at the time of the proposed amendments. It would be an opportunity to create and provide an opportunity to seek and receive help. Examples of the concerns of parents of children with special needs due to the change in the practice of determining the degree of disability and therefore the loss of the necessary services, as well as the absence of the necessary support in kindergarten or school, have been highlighted several times by the Chancellor of Justice in his review. The parents of disabled children must apply to the court for the assignment of disability to a child if they have been unlawfully deprived of it by the State. Is this a caring social ministry when a person only gets help when he or she goes to court? The draft law amending the maintenance regime has been awaited for years, but it does not appear so far. I am not going to say that I have asked questions to several Ministers of Justice, now also to the Minister of Population, both in Question Time and in the Commission. Time's up. No, not Raivo Aeg, who is currently the Minister of Justice and to whom I have spoken and asked questions about this problem, but a time which would clarify the problems of families and especially children's livelihoods and the situation of making a living, so that there would be no more tension. I also propose a draft decision initiated by the Social Democrats with the intention of entrusting the government with the task of resolving the problems of long-term care burdens. The decision of the Supreme Court, which clearly states that the local government has no right, even in the absence of budgetary resources, to refuse to pay for welfare if the close ones do not have the means to do so, does not affect the government either. The coalition is going to put the opposition at rest, saying that we have to do some more analysis, and there will be some change. However, during the period of emergency, it also became evident that some orders were signed later than they had already entered into force. This may have been understandable in times of emergency, but unfortunately this practice has continued now. I'll give you an example. On 10 September, after the government's discussion, the information was provided and, from Monday, 14 September, the wearing of masks was made mandatory for people working in general care homes and special care, as well as for visitors to these institutions. A right and necessary decision, which, according to the Minister for Social Affairs, would also guarantee the open status of institutions and avoid their complete closure. It was a surprise when the Head of AS Hoolekandeteenused Maarjo Mändmaa announced that the Ministry of Social Affairs announced this via the media on Saturday evening (now the text has become visible in crisis.ee), so 30 hours before the implementation of the obligation. They were not informed of this obligation either by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Board or by the Social Insurance Board. It is a public service, not to mention a general care home service. This is certainly not normal and it is important to thank the media, or the fourth power, who often do the unfinished work of the government. Organisation of social services is a large area where joys are often less than concerns. The Supreme Court's decision was also very good, which perhaps makes it clearer the obligation for local governments, but also the obligation to allocate sufficient resources to the government. The Social Democrats want to congratulate the Chancellor of Justice and his team for standing up for the rights of people with disabilities and sometimes doing so more loudly than any ministry. Although the Chancellor of Justice does not develop policies or participate in legislation, this work is very grateful and should also serve as an input to the Ministry. Finally. Thank you for what you have done and for what you will do in the future. It is certainly our thanks to the employees of the municipalities and to the public workers who are looking for ways to help people, not for reasons not to do so. Aid and support for people in distress must not be a national or local government clemency, but a right for people and certainly a legitimate expectation. This is because it would be good to live in Estonia for young people, for the working age and for the elderly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U102	Mikhail Lotman on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U103	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I will clarify the procedural question. I'm coughing, but it's asthma and it's not contagious. Just some of my colleagues were worried. Okay. The Isamaa Group would also like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for the very meaningful, intensive and well done work. As you know, we are currently having fundamental disputes, particularly with regard to the funded pension reform. We're in very different positions here. But pluralism of views is one of the important drivers of the development of democracy and we have no reason to suspect the integrity of the Chancellor of Justice and that he is not doing the best possible job. We too feel honest and do our job as best we can. I felt very proud to have looked at the Supreme Court hearing from the beginning to the end. I repeat one of the statements made by the Prime Minister of Estonia, in relation to a completely different matter: this is the kind of Estonia we wanted. Rule of law. Yeah, from time to time, we hear it's over or the rule of law is in danger. On the contrary, I see that the rule of law is quite successful in carrying out certain stress tests. I'm a boiler hunter from my first profession, and these stress tests had to be done from time to time. If the system is exploited all the time and not tested, it will be much worse, much more dangerous. We are all in this hall, and most people in Estonia have the so-called 'law' faith. We're law-abiding. We want the laws to be good. If we don't like the law, we usually think it's the law, but it's not us. At the same time, laws, and especially the rule of law, cannot make a coward for which sacrifices are made. The rule of law is a tool for people to live as well and productively as possible. The rule of law is a hierarchy of certain values and laws. If we in this Riigikogu think that we are adopting the law and that is it, then, as we know, that is not all. There are superior laws, such as the Constitution, international treaties and laws, as well as principles. For example, on human rights, we cannot even resolve these issues in a referendum. But in addition to these things, there are laws that are more important or, let's say, more powerful than the Constitution or international treaties. These are the laws of physics. Even if we decide in a referendum that Newton's second law is no longer in force, it is more about us, but not about gravity. This is particularly important to bear in mind in crisis situations. We can't predict everything. COVID crisis... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U104	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U105	... put us in a situation we weren't ready for, and not just us, but the whole world. So far, we still don't quite understand how this virus works, how the number of infected and affected is correlated with the number of dead. Even such a paradoxical thing that in countries with a particularly good medical system, medical care is often a higher degree of lethality. There's no explanation for that. Now we see that the second pandemic wave can be quite different from the first. I'm not gonna speculate here on a subject I don't know about... Well, I can talk, but my opinion isn't competent. Here we are often in an unexpected situation. We saw in the first wave how international agreements simply did not work. That's it, the boundaries are closed and you do whatever you want. It wasn't pure malice. These governments felt responsible for their population. So is it here. It is not always justified or does not seem justified not to allow this or another event or to want schools to be closed down. But imagine it's not COVID, it's ebola, for example. Would we, then, discuss at length whether we are shutting down schools as to whether the right to study children is more important than the right to survive? I just label problems and offer no solutions. You can't do everything by law. Finally, I would like to say a few words about what has actually been pointed out here. There are some institutions and agencies in Estonia whose decisions cannot be challenged and appealed, such as environmental protection or protection of architectural monuments [actors]. You said there was a contradiction between two, but the problem is even that there is often a contradiction between one. Some sheds in Tartu are so important that they cannot be broken down, and the Supreme Court cannot expand, but at the same time the really valuable houses are taken down calmly. Just as the laws must be clear, so they must be clear and there must be some clear mechanism for appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U106	The representatives of the political groups have spoken, so the negotiations are closed. Is there something the Chancellor of Justice would like to say in conclusion? No, I don't. We have dealt with this item until the end of the agenda, the Chancellor of Justice's report has been heard. Thank you very much to everyone who took part in this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U107	We are going to the second item on the agenda. This is the draft law amending § 62 of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee, number 215, first reading. The rapporteur is Toomas Kivimägi, Vice-Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U108	The honorable President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs has initiated one very important draft law that protects people's constitutional rights, which actually has a very important practical meaning. This is a draft amendment to § 62 of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. And since this bill is only three lines, I will read it to you here. 'Article 62 (3) of the Code of Civil Procedure shall be amended and worded as follows: 'A person who has suffered immediate damage to health or material damage as a result of a misdemeanour and his representative shall have the right of access to the decision in the case of misdemeanour and to the misdemeanour file following the settlement of a misdemeanour by an out-of-court practitioner. ' What's the problem? There are not rare cases where, in the course of a misdemeanour, a person is harmed either by health or material damage. However, such material damage or damage to health shall not be dealt with or compensated in the course of a misdemeanour procedure. In order to compensate for damage to health or material damage caused by a misdemeanour, a civil procedure must be brought before the Court. However, in order to appeal to the court, it is of course necessary to prove the existence of injury and the extent of the damage. And what is really needed is evidence which, to a large extent, is actually present in the file on misdemeanour proceedings. At present, however, the victim has no right of access to the misdemeanour file, i.e. he or she does not have access to the essential evidence on which to apply to the court for compensation for his or her material damage or damage to his or her health. That sounds pretty paradoxical. He has the right to have access to the settlement in the misdemeanour proceedings, but I will repeat this, not the misdemeanour file. It is indeed quite paradoxical and incomprehensible. This has also been pointed out by the Chancellor of Justice, who has addressed the Riigikogu with a proposal to bring the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure into line with the Constitution. It considers that the absence of this right is contrary to a number of paragraphs of the Constitution. Above all, the right to information about matters concerning a person should be mentioned. In fact, the Riigikogu has already dealt with this proposal by the Chancellor of Justice. The majority of the Riigikogu, i.e. a whole of 80 members, voted in favour of it. Then, on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the sitting instructed the Legal Affairs Committee to initiate a draft which would bring the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure into line with the Constitution. The Committee on Legal Affairs has discussed this draft at two meetings of the Commission. First, on 15 June 2020, a very comprehensive and concrete protocol has been drawn up. However, since the Committee on Legal Affairs finally unanimously approved this draft, I am not going to introduce this debate to you here and to waste your time, because, once again, basically, all the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs supported this draft. However, two procedural decisions were made: firstly, to initiate the draft, and secondly, to appoint Toomas Kivimägi as rapporteur. For the second time, this draft was discussed, including on 14 September. This Commission debate also presented the content of the draft, and again there was no new important information. On this occasion, however, the issue arose that, in the past, both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice had suggested that the approval of this draft would result in a considerable increase in the burden and additional costs for the practitioners. In Estonia, the main and biggest out-of-court judge in misdemeanour proceedings is the Police and Border Guard Board, who has stated that if they are now subject to the obligation to introduce and also make copies of the victims' misdemeanour files, their working time will increase, on the one hand, and the material cost of making these copies, on the other. There have been many different views on the extent to which and the extent to which this workload increases in practice, as there is already an obligation in criminal proceedings. And it has been regulated in criminal proceedings. With regard to costs, such as copies of the files, each copy from page 21 has been subject to a charge of 30 euro cents. In this case, the Ministry of Justice seems to think that the Ministry of the Interior, too, is rather of the opinion that making copies could be taxed even on the first page. For this reason, these misdemeanour proceedings are clearly far more than there are criminal proceedings. Perhaps, therefore, the risk that the burden will be significantly higher than, let us say, the obligation in criminal proceedings. At the same time, I consider it important to stress that this draft will only give access to the misdemeanour file to persons who have suffered, directly in the course of this misdemeanour, either damage to health or material damage. Those who have received neither damage to health nor material damage shall not have the right of access to the misdemeanour file after the adoption of this draft. As a result, there is, of course, no obligation on the person conducting the proceedings to make copies or to cover such materials in some respects, for example, with regard to sensitive personal data. It has also been pointed out in relation to the workload that it is still necessary to process these materials, first of all, in order to know whether material damage has occurred, whether or not a person has the right to access and copy the misdeed file, and, second, there may be certain sensitive personal data in it, such as health data, in which case they should be covered in advance. It's all an extra load for the processors. It is important to mention what the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice have also indicated that if these copies are transmitted electronically, there will of course be no state fee. However, I must now talk about the second Commission sitting that took place, as I said earlier, on 14 September. There were several members of the Commission, including the speaker here, as well as Tarmo Kruusimäe and Kert Kingo, who considered that it was not justified to create any distinction in the State fee for making copies of false files. It is also, in a sense, unequal treatment. While criminal proceedings, as I said above, have been subject to taxation since page 21, the Ministry of Justice has introduced the idea that copies may have been taxed since the first page, not as a specific amendment. Perhaps a number of Members of the Commission have nevertheless expressed the view that this is not justified, because some of the costs that might be increased should have already been paid by means of taxes and not each additional move should be taxed separately. In any event, the majority of the members of the Commission were of the opinion that if any form of taxation were to take place, it should take place uniformly both when making copies of the misdemeanour files and when making copies of the criminal proceedings files. Making a distinction in misdemeanour proceedings simply because there are more of them is not equal treatment, and that is what we did not think was right. But it was also said in the Commission that, between these two readings, we are obviously trying to clarify and coordinate this position, on the one hand, the Ministry of Justice-Ministry of Internal Affairs and, on the other hand, the Committee on Legal Affairs. So I believe that there is concrete clarity for second reading. However, no additional costs are currently regulated in the draft, and this procedure is in force, which is stated in the State Fees Act, i.e. from page 21. The Commission also took procedural decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 22 September (the decision was consensual), secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed (the decision was also consensual), and thirdly, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 6 October at 16 a.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U109	Thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U110	Good manager! Good waitress! I read here that the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure is contrary to several sections of the Constitution, including § 13. Everyone has the right to the protection of the state and the law. But the Code of Misdemeanor Procedure was passed 18 years ago. And as has often happened, the Chancellor of Justice has brought some of these things before us, and then we will deal with it unanimously. But tell me a little bit how this contradiction has lasted for 18 years without anyone noticing. How is that possible? Have you discussed this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U111	Thank you for your question. There has been no separate debate on this issue. I guess people have often accepted that. At the same time, the Police and Border Guard Board has actually assured us that they have allowed access to the files. But there hasn't been, say, a legal basis. This is now oral information, which I am aware of at the hearing of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior have stated that, in fact, in certain cases, victims have also been allowed to discover the file, provided that they have suffered either damage to health or material damage and that they wish to apply to the court for compensation in civil procedure. So it seems to me that de facto it has already been done. The aim now is to make it legally compatible. Clearly, the Estonian is, unfortunately, lucky? be more amenable in view of the subject. Of course, he has had to work harder to gather evidence outside the case file, while they are all in the file. I think that he has often given up compensation for his material damage because it is a complicated path. Currently, most of the evidence in the file is available and it is much easier for him to turn to the court. It doesn't have to be just a court of the instance to go to. If this information is sufficiently clear and understandable, an out-of-court agreement is often reached. In this respect, it is not necessarily necessary to refer the case to the courts either, but if it has the evidence that appears in the misdemeanour file, it can also be done out of court. And the likelihood that the person under investigation or the person causing the damage is willing to compensate for it is significantly greater than I, as the victim, have evidence to present. If they do not exist, the likelihood that the other party would be willing to compensate me is significantly lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U112	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U113	Previously on "The Originals..." As I understand it, for 18 years, the police have been engaged in such illegal activities, i.e. to meet people, but they have kindly turned a blind eye and dealt with illegal matters. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U114	Thank you for your question. But I think, having listened to the Chancellor of Justice's presentation, that man is still central. Of course, we can also assess their actions as you described above, but I think the police have, in any case, considered when to release information and when to allow access to the file. Let's say, there is, in essence, no statement of objection as to why not allow the dossier to be examined. I emphasise: essentially. Yes, you can say that formally there are certainly objections to why they have acted like this, but if they have been facing a person and the legislator himself has not noticed it before, then we can shake our heads and wonder why we ourselves have not noticed anything before. That is why I would not be overly critical of the police, particularly the Police and Border Guard Board, which is the main out-of-court judge. But I'm going to say it again by memory, and I think it's in a protocol somewhere, too, that de facto access to misdemeanour files has been granted before. I don't think I'm hurting the police right now. And I wouldn't be overly critical of them here. Rather, I say again that we should look in the mirror ourselves and ask why we have not noticed it before or why this issue has not been raised before. But better late than never.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U115	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? I don't see any wishes. We have a proposal from the lead committee to conclude the first reading of draft 215. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 6 October at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U116	The next item is the number 216 of the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and the Traffic Act, initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs, and its first reading. I would like to ask Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, On 15 June, the Committee on Legal Affairs initiated a draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour and the Traffic Act. The aim of the initiative is to influence the behaviour of people who are speeding up traffic by means of a new alternative measure. In fact, a speeding driver will have the opportunity not to pay a financial penalty but to choose a so-called "restor stop" of 45 minutes. I would like to add immediately that this alternative short procedure is intended for those who have exceeded the maximum permitted speed of up to 20 kilometres per hour. This initiative also has a preliminary story. Last October, the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board, conducted an experiment on Estonian roads, with which the so-called calming stop was tried for the first time in real life. In this draft law, the new term is 'influence measure'. There were 26 speeders in this experiment. As Laura Aaben, Secretary of the Strategy and Development Department of the Ministry of the Interior, explained to the Commission in June, there was not enough data gathered to approve this idea, but, more importantly, this experiment also needed a legal basis for continuing the trial phase. Last week, when the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft, Markus Kärner, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, stressed that a person would not be deprived of his freedom by stopping his or her freedom, but an amendment to the law would be necessary. So the draft will create a regulation that will give rise to sanctions in the event of a simple and less damaging infringement. The possibility of choosing a rest stop instead of a fine also requires a number of practical issues to be resolved. However, it is not possible to offer this alternative at any time and anywhere. According to a representative of the Ministry, the experiment has been developed in cooperation with people with very long traffic police. In order to implement the relief measure of the calming stop, there are six to seven places in Estonia according to the information in its committee. There is a need for safe parking of cars, the possibility to safely measure speed, etc. Many may wonder why such an alternative is needed, whether financial penalties are not effective enough. At the request of the Commission, Veiko Kombusaar, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Interior, also provided statistics on speeding. This shows that speeding is still very widespread and that the number of speed exceedsrs has not decreased. Let me give you a few examples. Speed cameras recorded 136149 violations last year, the largest number in the last four years. And there are also such statistics: speeding more than 60 kilometres per hour, there are 239 times as many of them. In addition to statistics, the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs had a number of questions and opinions already in the June session. It was examined whether there were comparable leverages in world practice. Turns out there isn't. Estonia is the first to attempt a calming stop. There was a question of technological support. As it turns out, the idea is that the speed crossing is channeling the corresponding screens into the calming stop. Technology allows all of this, and it also reflects the time and beginning and end that can be measured. As a new issue, the question was whether there was a plan to solve the problems of speeding light road users. Members of the Commission learned that dealing with light road users has become a priority and that this issue has recently been dealt with by MKM, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The draft was initiated in the Committee on Legal Affairs in June (consensually) and last week, at the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 14 September, the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were informed that the Government of the Republic would also support the calming down as an idea that could have a positive impact on traffic behaviour. Markus Kärner, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, has said that there is not yet an institute in Estonian law, i.e. a set of legal provisions that would legitimise the experiment of a calming stop. Not yet. In order to further develop this experiment, it is necessary to amend the law and, of course, also to develop IT solutions. During the meeting in September, the members of the Commission also had a number of technical and organisational issues, from the working arrangements of the patrol, for example, when the end of the calming stop exceeds the end of the patrol's working time, which is well known to be precisely planned, to the extent that the person who sat in the resting stop still has proof that he has sat down or calmed down. It was explained to the Commission that this is certainly not the work of one patrol and one man. A comparison was made of the use of pre- and post-patrol as tactical surveillance for blowing operations. The representative of the Ministry also replied on the timetable for the continuation of the experiment. If the draft is approved by the end of this year in Parliament, the experiment will start next spring. The results from the statistics required for the conclusions are likely to be available by the autumn. One of the issues raised by the Commission is worth mentioning. Is there a limit to how many times a person can be at a rest stop, for example, in a month? It was explained that calming stops and sanctions are not recorded in the criminal record, and a person may be stopped several times. The sanctions have made an informed choice that they will not enter the criminal record. A police officer sees a person as a clean slate as long as he doesn't have any more serious violations in the criminal record. So said Markus Kärner, representative of the Ministry of Justice. The subject of the proposal and the new measure of influence gave rise to consensus in the Commission. The consensus was both on sending the draft to first reading, closing it and on the deadline for amendments, the latter being 6 October at 4 p.m. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-22_U118	Thank you, dear waitress. I don't see anyone wanting to ask questions. Do the representatives of the political groups want to make speeches? I don't see that wish either. Then we have the commission's proposal to finish the first reading of draft 216. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 6 October at 4 p.m. Thank you very much, everyone. Our hearing today is exhausted.
