ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the second Thursday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. I'm ready to accept drafts and inquiries. There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Now there's a message. Today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up the Parliamentary Group of the Estonian Holy See, convened by Mikhail Lotman. All interested parties are welcome. Now, please, let's do the presence check!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U2	88 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. We can start working on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U3	Today we have one item on the agenda: Draft Act 198 on Supplementing the Law on the Organisation of Research and Development (R &amp; D) initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. And now if the buzz goes down a little bit, we'll start reading it first. Mr. Katri Raigi, member of the Riigikogu, will be here as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, On this beautiful autumn or almost summer day, I am pleased to present you with a law supplementing the law on the organisation of research and development, which tells us nothing new: the amount of state budget support for research and development must be at least 1% of gross domestic product. This means that 1% of GDP, public money, would go to science. The law should enter into force on 1 January 2021. I have to go back a little bit. This amendment is not a result of anyone's will, but actually a result of one development plan. Between 2014 and 2020 the development plan 'Knowledge-based Estonia' was in place in Estonia, according to which the private sector had to put 2% in research funding and 1% in the public sector. On 19 December 2018, a science agreement was signed which stated that from 2019 onwards, a step-by-step move will be made towards 1% of GDP in science. Unfortunately, in May 2019, the government did not foresee such a move in its budget strategy. At the beginning of June 2019, the Social Democrats already introduced a similar draft. But just as it always happens sometimes, or often, the opposition's drafts are in the bottom drawer of the table and have not gone beyond the first reading. In the meantime, there has been one popular initiative, more has been said about science on Estonia, which is very important and what only we can do. I very much want to emphasise one thing. I know there are counter-arguments, whether it is good to fix 1% and whether this may not lead to a drop in funding if GDP falls. The idea of this bill, ladies and gentlemen, is to prioritise research and development, to say that it is a priority for us. I would like to emphasise once again that it is based on the national development plan. I would like to thank my colleague Professor Jaak Valge and Viktoria Ladynskaya-Kubits for supporting this draft in the Committee on Culture. Again, if GDP falls, there will not be a situation where science receives very little money instead. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill states: at least 1%. This would provide confidence for the people in our science and those working there, because almost certainly GDP will rise again. I know the seriousness of this problem because I have worked in the higher education system for a long time myself, but my eyes opened a few days ago by a person almost my age working in a state office who said that I was in a hurry now, I'm going to attend my seminar. He said that if I still worked at the university, he had a doctorate, I would get $1,200. Ten years ago, I too received some EUR 1,200, and my salary [for his office] has risen by 30 or 40 euros. I looked over here at our pay table. In 2010, a member of the Riigikogu received a salary of 3170 euros. Our wages have certainly risen considerably. I would like to stress that we are one of the smaller nations with higher education in their own language. We are one of the smallest nations in the world with higher education in their own language. Our universities have fought their way to top universities, not only my home university University of Tartu, but also Tallinn University of Technology. And the University of Tallinn is also moving forward with great strides at a very good pace of research. I would also like to point out that, despite the scarce funding that will certainly no longer bring new people to science, the situation in 2018 based on an in-depth analysis by Professor Jüri Allik and his colleagues is such that our scientists belong to 10% of the world's top scientists, both in terms of quotability and in terms of high-level articles. All these metrics are forcing us to say that this money is particularly needed in science. Can I have your attention, please? Especially after breakfast, it is appropriate to say that if science is egg yolk, egg white is surrounded by higher education. They can only be taken together with higher education funding and research funding. We must certainly come soon to giving higher education back 1.5% of GDP, just as it was in 2011, by the way. There would be nothing extraordinary about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U5	Dear waitress, Peter Ernitsa has a procedural question. I'll have him present it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U6	Yeah. Thank you. I looked at this bill, it starts out nicely, everything is great, the first point is the introduction, but next comes the seventh, the implementation of the law. In the meantime, there are empty white pages. I looked at [in the hall] from that side, by the way, and we're missing these documents here, but in the meantime, there's nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U7	Another procedural question, Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U8	Thank you. I'm in a worse situation. When Ernitsa had something to look at and she discovered blank white leaves, I discovered that there were no more drafts in the back shelf. So the shelf's empty, too. Can I get a refill on that, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U9	I can give up my copy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U10	Then there's nothing else to do but... I think, dear waitress, you can continue your presentation. We are somehow trying to find a solution to this issue here. To this end, the corresponding services exist, so we will find these missing drafts, along with all the pages.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U11	I then stayed with the egg, i.e. egg yolk, or science, and egg white, i.e. the financing of higher education. One thing is clear: if we do not put money into our higher education and science, we will no longer have such good PISA test results as we are very proud of. And finally, I'm borrowing an idea from my good colleague at the University of Tartu, Jaak Vilo. Education is expensive, but education is even more expensive. I hope that you will support this draft and will also be ready to discuss funding for higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U12	Thank you very much, dear waitress. Members of the Riigikogu have questions for you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns such a matter that if your draft, which is entirely reasonable and linked to this former agreement between political parties, will not be carried out. Project this future a little bit. You mentioned one thing: the results of the PISA tests are getting worse or are not getting better, but in fact this impact on science and science in turn is much more serious. Why don't you tell me a little bit about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U14	Sure. Thank you for your question. The teacher currently receives an average salary of 1500 euros in Estonia, a young scientist of 1200 euros. Here are the first scissors. We expect a doctorate from a young scientist, a master's degree from a young teacher. That was my reference to the PISA test. With regard to the fact that without science it would be sad in Estonia, if we look towards the Nordic countries, the crisis money has now also been put into science in the Nordic countries. If we had never had our own oil shale explorations in the 1930's, we would not have had the oil shale industry looking for examples of history. If we didn't have health research now, we might be in a more difficult state in our health issues than we are now. Science affects us individually and every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U15	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U16	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Yes, in that sense, Peter Ernits' question was not answered, that there is indeed point 1 in the explanatory memorandum and the following is already point 7 so there is a suspicion that some pages are suddenly missing. But I didn't want to stick to the subject. In the explanatory memorandum, you have a beautiful table of the research development plan and it will end in 2017. We have also worked on budgets in this very Chamber for the next three years, and in the course of this year's budgetary procedure, I remember, nominal growth was one of the best in recent times. Unfortunately, you haven't put any good examples of recent years in the explanatory memorandum. But the second component of research funding is the contribution of the private sector. If we expect 1% from the public sector and 2% from the private sector, which is better than the target set, either by the public sector or by the private sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U17	Thank you for your question. The private sector has done well. I'm sure you'll have to thank me for every million more in science or every hundred thousand. If we continue the same projection here, I accept this criticism, it should be about 0,75% of GDP this year, or by last year's statistics. This year, the plan was 0.74%, but right now the numbers in this whole corona turbulence are a little different. So the private sector will certainly have to take major steps to place money in science. We have also improved the percentage by combining the Ministry of Education and Research with the Ministry of Education and Research's money as well as other ministries' money. Certainly, the private sector must be called upon to contribute more to science, and I believe that more and more will be done. The better the economy is, the better science is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U18	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U19	Thank you. I got the bill for a while, but it's really wrong, and sometimes there's something missing. I hope that in this part that has not been shown to me, it is written, but since I have not seen it, I ask you: does this bill and the explanatory memorandum contain any breakdown where this money could go? Is there a preferred field of science, such as science, humanities, or something like that? I understand that we are talking about where the money could come from, either from the state or from the private sector. But where could the money go, does it say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U20	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, you're missing page 2 of these papers, even though he's completely there. No, it's not that accurate. These same issues have been discussed by the Scientific and Development Council, and these issues have been discussed in the Committee on Culture. We match applied sciences and basic research, we match technical sciences and humanities, Estonian-language science and what we write in foreign languages. But we obviously need everything in small Estonia, including basic research. I know that there are certainly those in this Chamber who argue against and say: only applied research in a small country. But if we want our universities to be among the first in the world, the top of our universities, we must also contribute to basic research. I don't think developing one direction or another would take us very far. Rather, we should look at science as a whole. We know that half of the research money is currently coming in the form of "basic funding" and half through grants, applications. This proportion may be quite reasonable. Although the funding of science is also a specific big issue, and my colleague, Jaak Valge, could present a few hours' report on this subject, quite certainly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U21	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U22	Thank you. My colleague, Mr Randpere, asked greatly the same question as I was going to ask. Do we have any idea where to spend this money? In order to separate it, we should still know [of its final account]. Well, that's part of what I got. But now for that 1%. Is it quite right to tie it to a percentage? This is because we are now in a situation where, as a result of the economic crisis caused by the pandemic, our GDP has fallen, and it turns out that we are already fulfilling this 1% requirement, if we look at the current amount. Well, it's not going anywhere again. Maybe we should talk about the sums.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U23	Thank you for your question. I asked the Ministry of Education and Research how it is today to meet this 1% requirement. And Vice Chancellor Reimand said that we will still need more than 53 million next year in order to meet 1% of the demand. I would like to point out once again that this bill states 'at least 1%'. This would create a sense of security for scientists that this money will remain when GDP grows. Science funding is so structured that one year you apply for a grant, but it lasts for several years. So that's one percent, above all, to create confidence. And I'm sure, along with everyone in the hall, that after the crisis, our GDP will stabilise and start to rise. Indeed, this question, which discipline and how to finance, is, above all, the issue of the Scientific and Development Council and one of the subject of an endless dispute. Personally, I am in favour of financing both basic and applied research. As a PhD in Philosophy, I have also written my doctoral thesis on Estonian history. I also understand that the study of Estonian history and Estonian literature should be financed, but at the same time I also have to participate in international research projects. It's just how the world's built up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U24	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U25	Thank you for this interesting overview. I actually have two questions I'm trying to ask in one minute. One of them is a continuation of the discussion. Do you think that in this Chamber we should report to universities what kind of science they have to do, or could we leave it so that universities are the ones who know what is important in science? Yeah, there are problems, but we should trust them. Or should it be our task to say what kind of science Estonia needs? Maybe you could talk it out a little bit more. And the second question. Indeed, if we say 1%, we see what happens to defence costs, if we say 2%, then that's where 2% of them stays. This, however, does not give us enough flexibility. Isn't there a risk that this will take away the flexibility we have to respond to specific problems? And maybe there's still not enough money to deal with the knowledge transfer, the white side of this egg? Teaching will then be completely out of it and everything like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U26	Thank you. The university is free in its decisions because it is a public institution. And academic freedom must remain. Of course, this same private money comes first and foremost in the key to applied research, so that the freedom of universities certainly cannot be restricted. How to accurately divide this 1% - whether everyone is directed to universities or used in other ways, involving other ministries, taking into account the national development needs, it is once again the competence of the Research and Development Council. Surely a balance must be found here. But certainly the legislator cannot prescribe to the University of Tartu that in the future you will only study a specific field, I do not know, you will only engage in psychology and forget about genetic science. That would be a really big problem. As far as flexibility is concerned, the same is true if one percentage does not reduce flexibility, I will come back to the fact that it is at least 1%. This will always enable us to decide to give more money to science. And that is really a matter of priority. When we say that science and higher education are a priority, we are moving towards a better economy in the direction we want to move towards the Nordic countries. Higher education. It is true that now, if money is given to science at 1%, this research money will inevitably also be used in teaching, because in universities, teaching is as underfunded as it can be. That is why I brought into play the fact that at the same time we must also talk about the so-called egg white, i.e. the financing of higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U27	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for your very interesting discussion. You rightly said that the average salary of teachers in general education schools has reached EUR 1500, but junior researchers in universities receive an average of EUR 1200. What do you think this junior scientist's salary could be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U29	Thank you. I think this junior scientist would be happy today for 1500 or 1600 euros. Then she really shouldn't consider going to school, which is also a wonderful and good career. I am concerned, above all, about the growth of scientists. Who's supposed to choose a "bad pay" future, who's supposed to come up with a PhD? I sat by the post at the University of Tartu on September 1st, three hours, and read on my fingers how many Estonian-named doctorate recipients there are and how many foreign-named doctorate recipients there were about half of them. Many of them go home, many of them don't speak our language, they don't care about our subjects that we want to study. We won't get far that way. Young people choose from where it is interesting and where it serves, a specialty that has a perspective. However, I must say that defending my doctorate has brought me higher than average salary in Estonia. It is certainly worth writing a doctoral thesis along with other work. Doctoral thesis doesn't automatically mean I'm gonna do science for the rest of my life. But if we don't value young scientists, we'll cut ourselves very hard. I would very much like to stress that in the university, the majority of the work is done by this lecturer with a salary of EUR 1200, because he stands there in front of undergraduates and students of applied higher education. When Professor Lotman, Professor White, Professor Everau or Professor Black go to university to do their studies, they first step in front of Master's or PhD students. So, above all, we're standing up for the next generation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U30	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U31	Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Dear waitress, As we know, 2% of defence costs have not even been included in the law. Why, then, do you need to write this science money into the law? A good example is that defence costs of 2% of GDP are conventional costs and work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U32	Thank you. I agree, yes, that defence costs have not been included in the law, but we are already accustomed to them in our minds that they are. Once again: by laying down a law on research costs, we show that R &amp; D is a priority, and secondly, we guarantee the safety of researchers. That is why we seek to write 1% into the law in black and white, and still at a pressure of at least 1%.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U33	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You indicated in your answers that it was as if we could not write something to [universities] at least that impression. If we think of local governments that should act autonomously in the same way, then the state will give them money with a certain label. Did you mean this option of precept in absolute terms, or does the taxpayer and the state still have the opportunity to order something that he has a very clear strategic interest for, but which may not always match the personal interest of universities themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U35	Thank you for your question. Indeed, this 1% or at least 1% and private money do not have to go all to the university, so the university does what it wants. This can and should be shared in proportions, i.e. ministries and authorities order a variety of studies. They're still ordering, but they should order more. However, this does not mean that we, as the legislator, are going to say what Estonia's priority fields of science are. However, research funding must certainly give priority to the acquisition of research that is necessary for the state in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U36	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U37	Thank you. Good waitress! You refer in the explanatory memorandum, rightly, that the lack of funding for R &amp; D slows Estonia's progress towards a knowledge-intensive economy. In fact, towards a higher-value-added economy and higher-wage jobs. In this key, my question is how important you attach to the financing and better organisation of applied research, because applied research plays a crucial role in moving up the innovation ladder.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U38	Thank you. This is, in fact, a follow-up to Mr Kruus' question. Indeed, applied research, which should be commissioned by public authorities and the private sector, is very important and their importance is increasing rather than decreasing. Why am I trying to find a balance between basic research, university freedom and applied research here? These are the two sides of one egg again, one or the other cannot be ignored. Your party has stood for creating a special centre for applied research in Estonia, but I believe that applied research can also be developed in current universities, creating closer links between universities and entrepreneurship. I myself have worked for many years, many years, even decades at the University of Tartu, and I have seen how it has been tried to do the separate units created, the companies visited, etc. But this kind of science-university cooperation will take place in decades. This is demonstrated by the experience of other countries. So the universities are working on this subject, believe me, but success is not so easy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U39	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U40	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! In practice, we generally know that the figures in the laws tend to be petrified and sometimes remain as an obstacle anchor. I am therefore asking what would actually be the optimal percentage of our gross domestic product, with which we would be at a full level internationally to support businesses with innovation, so that we can continue to be a strong success country in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U41	Thank you very much for your question. Colleagues from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia have said that this is rather 2% of GDP. I believe that if, in a small country, we could achieve 1% of GDP for R &amp; D and 1.5% of GDP for higher education, we would be in a pretty good position and we would be able to do so. Once again, funding for higher education has been 1.5% of GDP in the past, which was the case in 2011. Whoever went to college at the time or saw the life of higher education remembers that it was more optimistic and cheerful than it is now. With this 1%, we create a sense of security for researchers and prioritise research and development.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U42	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U43	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! To me, an increase in research costs seems absolutely inevitable. Whether we are talking about automation in production, the development of the digital state, the green turn or other important issues for Estonia, these questions are unfortunately so complicated that neither I, you or anyone else in this Chamber can simply give the right answer in their guts. We need Estonian scientists and their best knowledge to actually develop as a country. In this respect, it is a step towards 1%, absolutely inevitable. This has long been agreed, many have expressed this desire, both among scientists and politicians, so there is really nothing to discuss here. However, I am asking for the opinion that a lot is being said about how perhaps these costs will start to decrease in times of recession. For example, in the case of pensions, it has been agreed that the pension index will depend on the development of our economy, but pensions will not decrease. Could there be a similar agreement on research costs, so that at least 1% of GDP and this must not decrease, i.e. even if the economy falls, we will not reduce the absolute value of research money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U44	Thank you, Riina! It would, of course, be a very nice idea to ensure funding for science this way, but unfortunately, this excellent idea is not included in this project now. At least 1%, if the government prioritises education and science, it is also possible to make it work like this without writing in law. It is true that people who are away from science often have some interesting questions and they would like answers right now, today and now. That is not possible, research takes time. For example, we all want to know how the spring corona crisis affected our education system, how teachers, students, and parents managed to cope. One study has been carried out, with a sample of a thousand people, which, by the way, showed that older teachers could not do less well than younger teachers. Three thirds of distance training was perfect, one third of it was, and one third was not at all suitable. This is the only study that we have today, with a thousand people, a relatively small sample, a Russian educational institution that does not look at at at all, nor are the children with special needs, who apparently remained in a difficult situation. However, the results of the next research will only be published in February 2021. I also thought, at first, how can it be so slowly, but on the other hand, everything really takes time to develop a study methodology, study, analyse it, etc. This is just a small example of how every little study actually takes a lot of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U45	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U46	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! Of course, I very much support this objective of increasing R &amp; D spending, exceeding and remaining in the 1% limit. But one concern in this regard is that if we can get these costs up, we can increase the incomes of the scientific community and, more generally, people in the education sector, then at one point they are becoming increasingly caught up in this so-called tax hump, i.e. on the one hand, wages are rising, but on the other, we are increasingly taking away tax. Is it also important for the scientific community that our tax system becomes more fair to them in the long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U47	I guess we'd all like to get more in our wallet. And what exactly is the salary as a gross wage, we don't really care. But I feel like there's still a lot to go to this tax hump if we're going at this rate. I stress that a young lecturer with a university doctorate received as much pay as today ten years ago, his salary has risen by 30 or 40 euros. So he's got some time until he gets all those troubles that you're describing. Clearly, each of us wants to see a larger sum in his wallet, but we also have to take into account all other circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U48	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You mentioned that writing research funding into the law gives researchers the assurance that their activities are a priority. Surely I do not want to underestimate science, but is the cost of defence not at least as important to the state? This 2% of GDP has unexpectedly added some EUR 100 million to the Ministry of Defence every year, with spending that they are constantly facing problems at the end of the year. What if it's wrong to think it's different for research funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U50	Thank you, good questioner! You said yourself that the percentage of defence costs has not actually been included in the law. Of course, if the state trusts the defence sector with money, then the defence sector must certainly use it in a prudent manner. I wouldn't put defence costs and science, higher education at stake. I would say that they are both equally important to us in the place where we are geopolitically located and as the country we are and want to be. I believe that the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces are making efforts to use the money in a timely and correct manner. I am absolutely sure that our research institutions and universities, too, are doing very well with the use of higher education and research money. I have worked in this area for a very long time and I know that there was never much money left over at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U51	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U52	Good manager! Good waitress! The idea is noble, but I see that you have come up with this noble bill in May. In the meantime, the world has changed a lot, the economic forecast, among other things. At the same time, we also have the heroes coming up, right now, and if we are talking about 2% of defence costs here, it will also require about 2%. Well, R &amp; D could be 2% or 3%, but the wallet isn't rubber. My question now is that, according to your May estimates, funding should be 0.83% next year and 0.92% thereafter. Aren't these too specific numbers now if they're supposed to be more like floating or flexible? That makes it a little unserious. Shouldn't the bill be collected or corrected in any way, considering everything that's happened in the meantime? After May, when you submitted this bill, the world has changed a lot.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U53	Thank you for your question. I come back to the fact that we are talking about at least 1% of gross domestic product for science. It is true that clear percentages have been recorded for the next few years, but I think that further changes can be made during the procedure for the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U54	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U55	Thank you, dear waitress. This is, of course, an excellent and very important draft, without doubt. This is confirmed by the fact that those government colleagues who do not really want to turn this bill into a law do not dare to say it directly. As we have seen in the procedure of the previous brotherly bill, everyone seems to support, but he is simply not going anywhere. Last week the Chairman of the Riigikogu took over the petition from scientists and said: 'We all very much support it, but... 'Whatever comes there after 'but', mostly that we'd like to help you, but there's no money. I believe, like you, that this is, of course, a matter of priorities. My question, however, is that much was said in the Commission about how the public contribution of the Estonian state is not so bad compared to other countries, but, look, our private sector could contribute even more. It is presented as a justification that we do not put more on the side of the country, we are somehow trying to squeeze more money out of the private sector. Could you comment on that position?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U56	Thank you for your question. There is certainly work to be done with the private sector, as I emphasised earlier, but this is a bit of the same subject in which we are in higher education in the fork. Obviously, if we come up with a draft of 1.5% of GDP for higher education, we will discuss paid and free higher education. Let us also say that we put everyone's money in higher education, but this does not reduce the state's obligation to put money in higher education. On the contrary, it leads us to a slippery path where the state may feel that it is worth making higher education pay, pay more, more and more. That is not what we want, for we want our people to have the opportunity to receive [free] first or second higher education. I agree, it is a matter of priorities. And that's what we've been talking about here for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U57	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, A little while ago, Mr Ossinovski was dealing with the private sector. Have you thought about how to get the private sector to contribute more to development and research, to work more with universities? If there were any ideas or ideas, I'd be happy to listen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U59	I have a recent experience of how an entrepreneur from Ida-Virumaa, who is of American origin and produces water filters Aquaphor, sought to contact the Tallinn University of Technology. He came himself, we went to the rector together, and now the next rector went to Ida-Virumaa. The success of this cooperation is evidently in five or ten years' time. Maybe this isn't a good example, but I think that personal contacts like this and the fact that we're also betting and bringing people together, when we have the chance, can really help. For example, Eesti Energia has supported young scientists. So we have many such beautiful examples of cooperation between science and higher education. But once again, it just takes time. We have a young democracy, we may not have such traditions to put money in science. I believe it has grown in recent years. Unfortunately, I can't say the percentage, I haven't prepared so well, but at least emotionally, I feel that companies and universities are increasingly in contact with each other. It's just a very long perspective for success. Entrepreneurs are increasingly looking for younger and younger students for internships. Of course, it is a problem that the best are taken away from the university and that they lose their education. So again, a little bit of a dead circle.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U60	Peter Ernits, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U61	Thank you, good manager. I'll come back to my last question. Before I heard there were no particular problems with the private sector, or at least the situation is positive. But since we are going to find 2% for the green turn, in which most of the private sector will have to bear, I would like to see a longer analysis. I say the goal is very noble. But what does that really mean? I am not dealing with the current unexpected economic situation at all, but precisely in the context of this 'big picture', the inevitable green turn and the 2%, most of which goes to the private sector, how does it go together?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U62	Thank you. Without science or without research and applied research, it is certainly not possible to make a heroe without it. Yesterday, there were producers of our beloved small nuclear power plant in the Socialist Group. After all, this is a very research - intensive endeavor by the slave. Finally, green turn money comes also from Europe, as support, though much and how, it is not certain at all. In my opinion, research in the green turn and in any significant economic revolution is important. And the fact that you mentioned that money must be put into a green turn shows all the more that money must also be put into science. Your question can also be concluded in this way that, when green turn money comes from the private sector, it is the public sector, the public sector, that should be the money of science that supports this green turn. And, by the way, I'm sorry, I'm adding, in Ida-Virumaa, which is also perhaps at the heart of a green turn, has now finally developed its own scientific council, where different universities go together. Too bad it's just now. But in any case, the idea of what to do then has made it clearer in Ida-Virumaa. This is, in my opinion, one of the most interesting results of discussions on such a fair transition, that Estonian top scientists do not consider it a great deal to travel to Jõhvi or Narva to discuss the future of this region. Because a few years ago, it would have been a relatively intellectually interesting idea to invite top scientists to Narva or Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U63	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U64	Austet President! Good waitress! This is certainly a very necessary draft. And frankly, it is very embarrassing that political parties in the government union have not kept their promise to the scientific community and have done this 1% long ago. But you were very right to say that a good young scientist gets paid much less than a full-time teacher. What should this pay relationship between teachers and teachers be in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U65	Thank you for your question. I'm an optimist, and I'm saying that if a young scientist with a doctorate gets... In fact, the teacher's minimum wage is currently EUR 1300, the teacher's average salary is EUR 1500. If I were to say that the minimum wage for a young scientist should be EUR 1 500, that is a hunch, but that seems fair. Fortunately, we are very demanding in our doctoral studies in Estonia and must still be a big job. I've written my doctoral thesis on the side of the job, it was a very beautiful time that I'll never miss back. So this four years of study and effort should quite certainly be reflected in the salary. If you ask for a specific number, I would say this: if the teacher's minimum wage is probably 1315 now, then the young scientist's salary should be EUR 1 500, that is the minimum wage, although I do not know where that extra would come from.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U66	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U67	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable speaker and very important author of the bill! I think it's all well-familiar. I don't really have a question, but I want to emphasise a few more aspects. One thing is that if we don't have science, we don't have doctoral studies, but this is one very important part of education and we know how much it is needed in any area of life. The other thing is, it's not just about pay, okay? Science money goes on to something else. I've lived this life quite a lot, and I've run it a little bit in college. You don't do experiments on your salary, you have experiments to do, and so on. Actually, 3/4 of that amount should be so you can experiment at all. There's no way you can separate basic science and applied science. If you don't have basic knowledge, you can't do any applied science. In reality, if we have all these links, we will also have the interest and support of businesses. I dare say it's quite possible. We're not talking about the sum. We have been talking about whether we value science as a basis for the existence of our entire country, because a person with a doctorate is certainly a better advisor and minister, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U68	Thank you for your support for this bill. True, we are now very focused on the issue of pay, which directly affects our scientists, but of course you are right that many disciplines also need equipment, experimental animals, etc. It's expensive. What have we obviously failed to do in Estonia? We have failed to build our own highways and order, but we have very much mustered all our universities and research institutions, built them beautiful and proud houses. Now they must also be kept filled with content. However, I do not think that this has all been a bad investment, something we have certainly done very right and well for euro money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U69	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U70	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have no doubt that science needs money, and I also have no doubt that you are a very good expert in this area. There's been a lot of talk here about universities. I would just like to say, as a remark, that the country university is my home university, so let's not forget the country university. As far as I know, the University of Life Sciences has salaries and not all opportunities among Estonian universities are the smallest and there will be a follow-up. So this is a very big and serious problem, food we need. But I'd like to ask you this, based on your experience. How do you feel, maybe it's like we're giving money, but it's not being used properly? Perhaps sometimes there is also a need for a bit of redistributive money in the field. How do you feel about the fair distribution of money within science, or could it be different here? For example, have any analyses been carried out to see how much the university gives back to society? Or is it even possible to do such things?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U71	Thank you for your question. Now I want to stress that really, everyone has their own alma mater, and that is the closest to the heart. Today, however, we are talking about all six public universities and, in fact, universities of applied sciences, who give us well-educated policemen and IT specialists, not to mention graduates of your home university. If I say the memory now, there have been analyses or studies which show that every euro put into science will give back four or five euros. In this sense, money put into science is certainly the right investment in the long term. As far as the rational use of money is concerned, the Ministry of Education must, within the limits of its powers, look at universities go around with their money, despite the narrow possibilities of public intervention by the public institution. I believe, quite rightly, that our universities and universities are well run and our leaders are responsible. However, it is certainly better and better in all areas, too. As regards how to distribute money, whether to give it to the university, so that the university decides how many grants there are and how many basic funding there are, I think this is an issue that needs to be discussed more precisely. After all, at the beginning of this year, there was great resentment among humanitarian scientists that money was unfairly distributed. I also do not believe that we will achieve a situation where everyone is happy and happy, but we must move towards it. I believe that this has also been the subject of the Committee on Culture, and I am sure my colleague, Mr White, will make a good run for this subject. It is also important to discuss this at parliamentary level and to keep the distribution of money in the focus of 1%, especially between applied higher education and basic research, as well as between Estonian and international studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U72	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now I ask Jaak White as the second waitress on behalf of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U73	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear technical staff! The Committee on Culture once again gave me the honour of allowing me to put together a report and to do this dictatorship and to give you a summary of what happened in the committee. This is, in fact, my second opportunity to be present in the process of dealing with the same draft, essentially. Last time was last fall. This meeting took place on the first day of this session, i.e. 14 September in the August Rei room. The atmosphere was friendly and warm, not to say sunny, and was very different from what was in another committee or from what was in the House yesterday. Perhaps he is comparable to what was the case during the presentation and during the debate by my esteemed colleague, Katri Raig. But that makes sense to this issue too, because the problem here is not that the objective is different. Perhaps it is simply a question of what are the methods and how to move towards this goal. This important sunny meeting was attended by the officials of the Committee on Culture and all members of the Committee on Culture, along with Evgeni Ossinovski, as an alternate member of Katri Raig. Ms Mailis Reps, Minister for Education and Science, and Mr Indrek Reimand, Deputy Secretary-General of the HTM, were also at the discussion on this item. The content of the draft has already been thoroughly analysed and resolved, so I do not need to repeat it. But in the committee session, it was the case that Mr Ossinovski presented the draft. He said it would be awkward if there was not enough funding from the state budget for R &amp; D. According to him, Estonian scientists have been doing world-class top science cheaply for a long time. Consequently, the legislative proposal is to fix 1% in law with the aim of financing R &amp; D investments on a consensual and long-term basis. Now Mailis Reps gave an overview of the government's opinion. It turned out that the objective of raising public R &amp; D funding to 1% of gross domestic product was supported, but nota bene! Not in the form set out in the draft. The Minister added that the Ministry of Finance has maintained a line in all areas that percentages are not recorded in the law. The issue of public funding for R &amp; D has all been supported, true, but it depends on the budgetary possibilities. Then Jevgeni Ossinovski claimed that, if the development of some areas has been very important, politically has also been agreed differently, and gave an example of the health sector where the additional money has been fixed as a percentage. He stated that the initiators of the draft were convinced that science was an area that required an exception from the general financial policy principle, because it was a guarantee of future success. I said that Estonia is among the first third in the European Union in terms of public funding, but the proportion of private money in terms of the ratio of private money to the back fifth. The question is how to make science more Estonian-centred so that private money comes more into science. I also said that if the Social Democrats want to think in that direction, I would be happy to cooperate with them. Next, Indrek Reimand also stated that Estonia's problem is the lack of private financing. Jevgeni Ossinovski said that maintaining higher education and research in his native language is expensive. Compared to another country where space is based on a large language, unit costs in Estonia are very high. The second question is the contribution of the private sector, which could be greater. The question is whether Estonia can achieve the same private financial contribution as Sweden or Germany, because the economic structures are different. In Estonia, the economy of small enterprises is [probably] so small that companies that are able to carry out large-scale R &amp; D activities for a long time are very few. However, this does not mean that no effort is needed in this direction. Ossinovski announced its support for sectoral R &amp; D programmes in ministries. Now I quote: 'This, however, does not solve the problem for the Estonian scientific community, which is doing world-class science, while at the same time receiving lower than Estonia's average salary. ' No one commented on that, neither did I, even though the other side of this argument seemed strange to me. I checked with Statistics Estonia and it turned out that it didn't seem weird for nothing. But then I don't have the authority to talk about my feelings here. Aadu Must, Chairman of the Commission, proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 24 September, that the first reading of the draft be terminated and that I be appointed as the representative of the Commission. Everyone voted in favour of the first proposal, the second being six: Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Heidy Purga, Jaak Valge, Kristiina Šmigun-Vähi, and four against: Helle-Moonika Helme, Aadu Black, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Marko Šorin. All in favour of the third proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U74	Thank you very much. You have questions too. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U75	Thank you. You have nicely opened this debate on the linking of costs to a percentage. And indeed, at the meeting, the Minister of Education presented the long-term vision of the Ministry of Finance that there is generally no support for binding in order for the Ministry of Finance to have maximum flexibility. But, in fact, there are areas in Estonia where stable funding is considered important enough, which is why the percentage of their funding is fixed. You mentioned the health care I spoke about in the Commission, but there are no doubt more of them. How do you think it is? For example, the financing of sport is fixed as a percentage of the gambling tax and is considered to be an area that could be financed on a stable basis in Estonia. When comparing these areas, do you think that science should be treated in the same way, or should it be so different from sport that every year we look at whether or not there is enough money for scientists?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U76	Yes, it was not discussed in the committee sitting, but as far as my personal opinion is concerned, one does not rule out the other. If it is not legally stated that research funding takes place as a percentage of the state budget, that does not mean that it is unstable, right? In this case, life itself can paradoxically play off this really good intention, right? According to the draft, the financing rate for 2021 is 0.83% of GDP, but according to current forecasts, we know that GDP may fall by 5 to 5.2% this year, which may theoretically mean that next year the volume of research funding will be even higher in absolute terms than 0.83% of GDP foreseen in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U77	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U78	Thank you for this very good overview. I have this slightly extenuating question on which I look forward to your comment as an expert. Undoubtedly, Estonian science needs more funding than it does now. But my question is whether the bill provides or how you see whether the problem is only among the money we put into science, or whether it is also a question of whether the money has been spent structurally reasonably, i.e. how much time it takes for the scientist to write grant applications, report and all that, so that science must be done at night or during summer holidays. How much can it be seen that such a transfer of science, an upbringing, or teaching, will fit into the entire funding? Would fixing a percentage help solve these structural problems, or should we solve them first?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U79	Thank you for your question. I understand the content of your question so much that I fully agree with you. In fact, it is not just about the amount of funding. It doesn't even have to be handled in such a way that which one has to do first. In fact, these things can be done nicely in parallel. In my opinion, the Estonian research system needs quite strong reforms. I am not alone with this opinion, supported by external experts from the European Commission, whose idea is exactly the same: Estonian science should be turned more towards Estonian society. And I am pleased to announce that external experts are also in agreement with the EKRE programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U80	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U81	Thank you for the floor. Dear waitress, You referred to the allocation of votes in the minutes of the Commission sitting. There were also four people who voted in favour of rejecting the draft at first reading. In the course of the Commission meeting, did they also state the reasons for their position as to what this argument is, why should this draft law not go on? Or what were their basic arguments, why not go ahead with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U82	Thank you for your question. There were no specific reasons, but basically there was to understand what the question was. The question is rather in the form that it is not recommended to be set as a fixed percentage. As has been said, the fact that some of the members of the committee voted against going forward with the draft and in favour of some of it does not in itself mean that those who voted against progress would in any way be opposed to the fact that Estonian science would receive more money or that Estonian science needed reforms. There was no such confrontation, even though the voices went as they went.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U83	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U84	Thank you very much for your thorough review. My question is somewhat personal, although I understand that you are making a presentation on behalf of the Commission. If the current draft law may still be amended in the following readings, would you consider that this bill could have a perspective on being adopted in the large hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U85	Yeah, I can only say my opinion again. Unfortunately, I have to say that unless there is a strong increase in content, in parallel with which the reform of the Estonian research system will be implemented, I fear that [it will not be adopted]. From my own point of view, my vote in favour of continuing with this bill points out that I agree that more attention must be paid to Estonian science. But if this attention remains as formal as this bill, my sympathy will run out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U86	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This draft also describes the financial impact on budgets in 2021, 2022 and 2023. Next year's budget would increase to EUR 34.4 million for science. Do you have any information on how much really planned next year's budget is to give more money to science?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U88	Thank you for your question. That is a perfectly legitimate question, but I must say that I do not have this information, because the budgetary process is still under way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U89	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I was very sympathetic when you said that your voice supported this idea, and I do not think you would object to this funding. But you also said that this bill, like it doesn't really contain it or doesn't guarantee it. We all want decisions taken not only in this Chamber, but also in ministries and everywhere else, to be made on a science-based basis, taking into account best practice and all studies. It is quite clear that if Estonian researchers and higher education do not have a financial resource, we do not have to expect such a result, we must base our research on foreign research. At the same time, the decisions made for Estonia could be based on the opinion of Estonian scientists. Tell me, who as a member of the opposition does not know the internal life of the coalition, how much have you personally paid attention to this issue and the need to find money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U91	Thank you for your question. Look, that's a bit of a sudden question. I can't say that. Of my, a politician's attention, I have devoted perhaps 5% to all such issues, if such an answer gives you anything. Maybe 5.5%, but more than 1%.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U92	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. There is an opportunity to open negotiations. As the representatives of the political groups at first reading can speak in the negotiations. Aadu Black, on behalf of the Central Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U93	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This is a subject that I remember for decades. That is why I am pleased that he is back in the big Chamber for discussion. I remember it was about the turn of the millennium, when I had the honour of giving a lecture in the Tartu University Hall on the subject 'Estonian people's Faith of Education', is it just history? '. I remember the first time there were R &amp; D discussions right here about a dozen years ago. And I remember with a good feeling that many developments have been sympathetic. A dozen years ago, we had something called tearing the blanket off each other, a feature of our scientific discussions. Dominated by the fact that it was said how important engineering is. When tables were made on how to develop something further, social sciences and humanities, for example, were forgotten from the table because someone thought they were not sciences. The situation changed a little after Brexit when it was thought that people should also have a clearer view of the country and of the development of society. I also remember trying to do one or the other and reaching a great result, and the whole other background was forgotten, and I remember at a conference in the European Research Agency, Estonia was mocked because we were building our own research sites in Antarctica and want to put it up next to the bright research campus in the American lights. But these are all the nice things that we've gotten over and gone on pretty well. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has systematically worked in at least the last three Riigikogus to ensure that this education religion of the Estonian people is not merely history. I am still quite pleased with our committee, because there are people who look at one thing, look at you, no matter what, sometimes we argue with you, in fact there is the faith of education and science. It's a good thing they talk about it more widely. I'm tired sometimes, and I think everybody knows. All the issues that have been covered here have indeed been under discussion in the Committee on Culture. Some things are said that you only discussed for an hour how you made your decision. These are all topics that have been discussed over the years and months, very many hours. They were talking about the private sector. Yes, of course, the private sector is a problem, but there are problems with funding in every sector. It has been very well pointed out that the biggest problem is still this: as long as we do not have the research-intensive production that we are trying for, and are only subcontractors, then the global companies that have bought them are doing research, and not us, but somewhere else. So in this sense, scientific production must be fully pursued. I'm sure it'll give you a better background. We were talking about teachers' salaries and teachers' salaries. The Riigikogu has been talking about this for years. I dare tell you that some of the teachers' salaries have been discussed at first, after the entire Riigikogu. It has been discussed how important this is, it has progressed, and it has been achieved that the teacher's salary has been missed by the university lecturer's salary. Here in this very hall, I have already given the same examples of how the best master's students who graduated were offered a salary of 1,200 or 1,400 euros, with our Master's degree, who passed. Then it was said that you were the best, come to us with a doctoral degree, you will receive EUR 680 at the time was EUR 680, after EUR 860. This doctoral student's salary story is what we are still telling ministers in our daily work, talking to the Ministry of Education and Research, and saying that you have [to ensure] progress. And we are not only following this bill very closely at the moment, but, above all, looking at how the budget figures come, because promises have been made. Today, we're going to fight for an indicator. Will it last tomorrow? Maybe it will. We really had a problem with this particular bill, and we were talking about the same bill. It is true here that, if we now exchange our eyes with Jürgen Ligi, for example, it seems that perhaps this 1% cannot be cut into the real law, at least I have heard from him that the Reform Party would not accept it, but it was a long time ago and in connection with another matter. In this sense, it is as follows: what do we do with a bill that is noble-beautiful and which we want to support, but the form is not very good? The form is not such as to be realistic that it will work. Based on the fact that we all still have something of the Estonian people's belief in education, we have reached the point that it is probably appropriate to continue reading it. Because it was extremely interesting to see how many of the things that seemed to be simple in the Commission were now in real educational news for the big hall. So you have to talk about these things, you have to talk about them, you have to talk about them. I hope that the initiators, after the amendments have changed, will not say that this is a child we are not familiar with. But that is how we must proceed, as has already been said, that the draft would again not only be a beautiful statement of how we are all a believer in education, but that it would also have substance. So let's keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U94	Thank you very much. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U95	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, A little bit of what I'm saying is improvisation, but the subject is very close to me. I guess I always come here with improvisation. But since Aadu Black named my name, very adequately, I will comment on that. We are not opposed to the message of this bill, no way. I can also say from my history, having been both the Minister of Science and the Minister of Finance, that I have followed that view. I have also told governments that increasing the share of science in GDP and budget could always be such a flagship. I've done it in times when this hasn't happened. But for a long time, this has taken place with the unanimous support of the government. When I became the Minister of Science myself, it turned out, after all, that there was even a statistical regression, even though it was fought against. I had some very memorable negotiations with the Minister of Finance, where I was taken as a bridge partner, that you already got something and that's enough for you. The Coalition Agreement also provided for the funding of science, and the Coalition Agreement also provided for the salaries of teachers and much more, but it was all on paper. We left the room anyway so that my disappointment was very great and my feelings were very confusing, because as Minister of Finance I had to deal with the cuts, times were different. Then they looked at me to see how you wanted to increase the cost. I wanted to increase the cost back then. But this, of course, is not my personal confession. I'm repeating our party attitude. We don't think it's right to write percentages into the laws, just like Aadu Black said. It's a budget disaster. It's a constant compulsion and the percentage will then increase by over 100. For example, I was not in favour of signing this science agreement either, simply because all parties had already allowed themselves to be broken up and in this context, the promise of an increase in costs was not credible. I told you right away, you know, it's not full, there's a lot more popular things. I would have liked to have raised education and science as a flag letter, but most voters do not follow such numbers, and inevitably other promises tend to be more interesting in democracy. This does not mean that I do not always make budget requests on this subject, so that this amount increases and reaches 1%, and I am only going to go on from there. That's not the question. But yes, all our activities here should be aimed at a smarter economy, a smarter society and a smarter person, not an increase in costs abstractly. So these structural changes are extremely close to our soul, but we would not, as Aadugi said, want to do this in a false form. We would like all parties to actually make decisions in the direction they signed. You signed it, all right. You knew you wouldn't. Now it's time to fill in. Now we have to start filling up, but not getting involved with them. Of course, we have not written defence costs into the law, but the reason is that defence costs are an international promise, not regulation. And that promise has been fulfilled. Another major strategic, one could say, the attitude is that the state is protected, collectively protected. This is the same attitude of a smarter society that should still be expressed in the budget, not in the law. This should be expressed in attitude and in real politics, not in such regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-24_U96	Thank you. The desire for further negotiation has not been revealed, so I consider the negotiations to be concluded. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of the draft 198, and no other proposals have been received. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 8 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you all! The sitting is adjourned.
