ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U2	Good afternoon, President of the Republic of Estonia Kersti Kaljulaid, President Arnold Rüütel, Honourable Riigikogu, Prime Minister, Ministers, Constitutional Ministers, Excellencies and Visitors! I am opening the IV session of the 14th Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U3	Please ask the Chair of the Riigikogu Henn Põllea, Chairman of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U4	Dear President of the Republic of Estonia, President Rüütel, Prime Minister, Ministers, representatives of constitutional institutions, Excellencys and guests! I have the honour to welcome you to the inaugural session of the autumn 2020 session of the Riigikogu. Although the Estonian Parliament is young on the scale of world history, we are now more mature and stronger than ever. There have been agreements and disagreements and various arguments from wall to wall on this winding road. Many of those in this Chamber have expressed commendable eloquence in defending their views. Like our parliament, Estonia's democracy is relatively young. In the spring and summer of this year, we gained a new, tough but valuable experience of democracy in resolving the pandemic crisis in which we have been and are still among the most successful countries in the world. All the problems and decisions taken in the pandemic crisis were thoroughly analysed and discussed in the Riigikogu committees as well as in the large hall, starting with the budget and ending with the saving of jobs and the economy, protecting people and much more. There were many different points of view and views on which MEPs raised serious and relevant questions, whether from the government coalition or from the opposition side. This will stimulate the necessary parliamentary debate in the country. We also worked closely together at the level of the body of elders. Despite the desire of certain circles to use the crisis to bring down opponents, I believe that this whole process has led all stakeholders towards better initiatives and more precise policies. The COVID-19 situation will not end anytime soon and its course is unpredictable. We must therefore do everything to minimise the risks to people's lives and health and to ensure the functioning and recovery of society and the economy. We have adopted a series of important and justified measures for this, but we cannot rest yet. All of us formed an important foundation in strengthening the structure of Estonian society, both in form and in content, whether in parliament, in the public, in the media or in social media. Sometimes disagreements and disagreements arise, which seem unconciliatable. This is understandable because the media creates and brings us more dramatic headlines and often exaggerating comments. But if we took a step back to see the bigger picture, we'd see that it's just mixing colors on the same palette. The real problems are the same. They repeat and need a simple, sometimes faster solution. Good friends, ambassadors and guests! This year was a hundred years since the first Constitution of the Republic of Estonia was drafted and signed. It was not 100% perfect, it is not possible, but it was undoubtedly one of the most democratic constitutions in the world, which established the principles of referendum, popular initiative and direct democracy. We do not now have direct democracy, but it should be part of our daily democratic culture. Direct democracy is not a ghost or a pointless farce to fear. You have to trust your people. The Riigikogu must believe in its people because the intelligent initiative from below is a great support for the exercise of state power. We often do not see or see what the real interests and needs of people are or do not want to see it, such as the will of the majority of the people to introduce the possibility of a popular initiative and the election of the President directly, or the desire to establish marriage in the Constitution as a union between man and woman. In this way, we may and we are in a situation where the state is imposing undesirable and unacceptable precepts and value systems on its citizens. As a result, public dissatisfaction has only increased over time. People express their denial in different ways, such as petitions and meetings, or being sceptical and passive, but also depressive and opposing. The loser is the whole country. The inclusion of elements of direct democracy in the current political system is an important instrument of self-expression for citizens during the inter-election period. This would help to make elected representatives of the people more responsible, discipline the political elite and bring us all closer to the people. The principles and practice of direct democracy will become an important element of a representative form of governance in the future, which, in addition to the model of parliamentary democracy, will be a new dimension. This would involve a broad electorate in setting up issues that are important to people and making decisions. This, in turn, would make democracy a representative and truly strong human-friendly political mechanism. Both the state and the people would win. Dear listeners, What about the Estonian Parliament and democracy in the future? It seems to me that there are still a number of common challenges that we need to become more aware of and to try to respond to. One of them is greater flexibility and activity in Parliament's work. We must speak in the Riigikogu on the same topics that the people are discussing. These issues need to be discussed at the right time, not with great delay. Otherwise, we will live in a bubble on our own, and we will be ensnared into meeting the wrong priorities. The Riigikogu should assume a greater role in initiating draft laws. As we have seen in the case of COVID-19, the immediate adoption and resolution of urgent issues is often vital. Of course, things must not be overdramatic. A balanced approach is needed. Another important area is digital democracy, which can cause conflicting feelings. On the one hand, it is paradoxically a sense of distance-closeness in democracy; on the other hand, it involves larger masses more quickly. Information technology is strongly embedded in the communication of voters, especially young people. The main impact of the technological revolution over the last 20 years has been the convergence of physically distanced people in a new way. The changed channels of communication have enabled people to communicate more and more closely with one another. Through the Internet, smartphones and numerous social media channels, people can participate in large invisible online communities. People are connected by common interests and understandings, no matter what these interests are, no matter where these people are. We are at the forefront of providing digital services in the world, but we need a fundamental and comprehensive debate on technology and politics and relations between technology and Parliament. We need to be more fantastic and experimental about new trends, but without compromising digital security. As a Riigikogu, we could also be more active and more in the role of leader. We must not become a passive follower, nor must we become a hasty follower. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I have good news. In spring, we changed the law on the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu so that, in a crisis situation, if Parliament cannot physically gather, plenary sessions could be organised electronically. Throughout the summer we have been working on the development of this platform and it is already in the experimental phase, so far successfully. This opportunity to hold e-sessions in the world is perhaps very unique for one or two parliaments in the world! And I dare to confirm that our platform is over the top of everyone. In the near future, we will all have the opportunity to test it ourselves. And I'm sure once we do that and the rest of the world catches up, our platform is still the best. The Estonian people have sent out a clear message: from young people to older people, everyone wants their MEPs to work with them and address the most important issues for them. Estonia needs to develop representative, direct and digital democracy. Especially at times when skepticism is brewing in all of us and we view politics, politicians and political institutions with obvious cynicism. Our role in the democratic process is a privilege and comes with responsibility. This is how we respect and protect everyone's wishes and rights. We serve our country and every person in Estonia. Good people here! One area has remained unchanged despite crises and exceptional situations. This is our foreign and security policy. We are still facing a precarious situation in a dangerous region. Our eastern neighbour, Russia, is conducting regular military manoeuvres along our borders with perilous persistence. He's trying to expand and strengthen his grip on his neighbours, wanting to restore the former empire. The basic principle of our security policy is, and will continue to be, the preservation of Estonia as a nation state, the comprehensive strengthening of our defence capabilities and the consolidation of our international position. The state's mental and physical readiness, as well as ingenuity and entrepreneurialism, is needed to enhance Estonia's security. In addition to the military aggression against Georgia and Ukraine in recent years, Russia's military involvement in the events in Belarus is also feared. We're watching with a lot of attention. At the extraordinary session recently held, we adopted the Riigikogu statement to support the democratic aspirations of the people of Belarus and condemn all kinds of violence and interference, both internal and external. I am pleased that the Riigikogu has shown a great cross-party consensus here. Undoubtedly, security issues include the above-mentioned digital and information space. It is one of the battlefields today that we cannot allow our enemies to fill with demagogy, lies, and hostile propaganda against us. I do not know today whether we must ever discuss the interruption of the translation of certain mediums, as has been done in many parts of the world. Well, time will tell. Honourable members of the Riigikogu and the people of Estonia! Although our approaches to problems may differ, we certainly share the view that the state must, in any case, try to improve the lives of the people of Estonia. We can do so if we have good will and sustained cooperation. The opposition can be both destructive and constructive, but the latter brings substantial success, not confrontation or anger. After all, we all know that we must work together to achieve the best results. Everything we do must be based on our national interests. It has been enshrined in our constitution, and it is an indispensable duty for all of us to comply with it. We are facing difficult challenges. These tasks are done when we focus on the people who have sent us to this Riigikogu to young people, mothers and fathers, grandparents. They are representatives of different generations and walks of life. We're just as strong as our weakest link. Let us notice our most vulnerable people and areas, see the bottlenecks in education, science, culture and entrepreneurship, and turn to them with a helping and supportive hand. Let us keep Estonia's spirit, economy and society strong. The generations of the past, today and the future are united by the unshakable belief in Estonia as a nation state, its traditions, values and sovereignty, as well as by progress and technological innovations. Only by such invincible and collective will will will we emerge from the most difficult situation more quickly, better and stronger. Together, we win. As we go forward together, we have bright and busy days ahead of us. Be safe and sound! A lot of strength for the upcoming session! Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U5	I now ask the President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid, for a chair of speech in the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U6	Dear friends! I guess I wasn't alone today when I was walking towards this house and this season, which brings us a lot of free discussions and different views, preparing for the people of Belarus. What we've been accustomed to for decades, they're fighting for today. I think we should not interfere, but we must be with them, including today. Mr President Arnold Rüütel, President of the Riigikogu, members of the government, Excellencys, constitutional institutions, ladies and gentlemen. Good Riigikogu! Dear people of Estonia! A year ago, I stood before you and encouraged you to find time to deal with the long-term issues of Estonian development: Estonian School of Harmonisation, Development of Green Energy Production, Opportunities for Using Artificial Intelligence in Estonia. Your role is to guide us towards a better future by shaping the legal space that allows us to do so. I believe in parliamentary order. I really believe in that. This is your role, the direction of our future, the role of no one else. Of course, it's been a difficult year. But I guess we all have to be honest with each other that the rest of the world is a little ahead of us right now. This means, however, that in ten years' time, we will look at each other and ask how, after all, the AI tiger from Latvia, not us, became. How can this Poland, which is dependent on coal electricity, supply us with green electricity? Why can't our economy, which for 30 years recovered faster than that of our northern neighbours, do it any more? Of course, it is difficult to say in every moment when the future was exactly missed and the purchase of a grace period was focused on the past. In 30 years' time, it may not be possible to place a finger in this one place in history. But for the first time in 30 years, we see and feel that many of our companions who have been freed from the Iron Curtain work more effectively than Estonia for a more prosperous and secure future. Something's wrong with our big picture perception or our ability to react to that big picture. The alarm clock, dear Riigikogu, has already sounded. Estonia is no longer able to supply itself with electricity on its own because, despite the fully predictable increase in CO2 prices, we are still very far away from our necessary 2 000 MW sea wind parks and the necessary energy storage capacity, be it water pumping station or hydrogen. We're so far away that we can't answer the question 'How far? '. These risks of long-term development must be mitigated through smart leadership. This is the best job you can do in this hall. There is a time when the country is directing our economic development with more money than ever before. Here is the opportunity to put our economy on the path to green development, and there is also the risk of wasting our time holding yesterday. And then we have a pandemic. Fighting the virus means that our normal rights may be limited to a certain greater social benefit, to prevent people from dying. But these restrictions must be uniform and proportionate. The situation can also be seen in the sense that it is the pandemic that gives us a simple reason to talk more about the embodiment of the freedoms enshrined in the Constitution. It's needed anyway. It is in the last decade that the world views of our political parties have become increasingly and fundamentally different on the axis of personal freedoms and universal rights. In this Chamber, too, there are different approaches to what is a state and what are the freedoms of people than ever before in this century. This is an honest and important debate, and this dispute must be debated about what is fundamental: the person and his or her freedoms or the state and national objectives. Keeping this debate will benefit our democracy. It will improve our people's understanding of universal human rights and our own constitution. Surrender of rights and freedoms is often a process in the world that takes very small steps until it is too late or impossible to change something when you realise at one point. Talking about it, being aware of it is the best way to avoid such a path. I am very pleased that we have spoken a lot about freedoms, rights and responsibilities this year. A lot of work has been done. This means that our society will be able to correct the gaps before these gaps result in irreversible damage. If some people feel that they cannot have a say in Estonia's life, it is not good enough for those who feel that they are getting back. People who are disappointed in their own country must be handed out their hands and do so in such a way that the same hand does not, in turn, cause disappointment in others in their own country. Very many of the countries that we have built our own country have faced similar difficulties with us. But they have not always been able to react quickly enough to prevent the loss of social mobility and the loss of access to quality education, and to avoid hopelessness inherited from generation to generation. Clearly, in 30 years, we too have reached the point of having this conversation. In today's Estonia, it is actually possible that a single mother's child will become president, a Russian-speaking home will be a minister or a head of capital and a cashier's child neurosurgeon. We will, because we have taken many steps that our richer friends may have been surprised at in a country like us: a huge share of educational expenditure in the state budget; free higher education; health insurance for all children, regardless of the social tax paid by their parents or their absence, which covers an unusually wide range of services, such as dental care; long, well-supported parental leave; the obligation to provide a kindergarten place for local governments. We can be very proud that we have succeeded. But there's still a long way to go. In the case of a true welfare state, the country's positive attention is always greater for those in a weaker position for some reason: minorities, single parents, their children, low-income families, people with disabilities. And it makes no sense to divide minorities into those who deserve the support of society and those who deserve it less. Everyone feels outnumbered sometimes. But just knowing that your interests and rights, your happiness, will not be run over on the grounds that you are a small concern for society, because there are not many like you, is the essence of the welfare state and the source of security and freedom for citizens. This brings me to one of the greatest concerns in the organization of our social life. Of course, you'll notice in this big hall when someone's bad and someone's sad. You'll notice and you'll act. But you're a minority of spotters. The majority of spotters are in local governments, and those who can actually do something are mostly there. For 30 years, we have complained that our local government is too weak, that it tends to borrow itself, that it is unable to carry out the tasks assigned by the state. A thorough reform was needed. It's like we did the reform, but things didn't change much. A little less 'local', still 'own', but still little 'governance'. Local authorities still do not have the capacity to be the nearest spotter, helper and supporter to their people. I've been through almost all of our new merged municipalities. Their councillors and parish elders have one great joint request for you: Trust them! Trust them a lot more and give them a decent budget. Give them a budget whose development would not depend on national programmes and roofing money, but on the diligence and skills of the people and entrepreneurs of this municipality. Money is always low, although in the current crisis, this position seems to be somewhat volatile. However, trust our local authorities in organizing the life of your region. Trust them also in the budget, and you will see that they deserve it. The model of the social market economy of European countries, which is also written to us by the Estonian Constitution, makes the state an obligation to be the guarantor of last resort for its citizens. If a person cannot cope, for whatever reason, the State will help him or her to overcome the difficulties or take on part of the difficulties in life. In Estonia, the law places an obligation on the local government. Court settlements indicate that the local government has no right even in the absence of budget resources, even then! just refuse to pay for the home if the family members themselves do not have the means to do so, to organise a disability child support system, to build a water supply that is permitted by planning and to run a near-home school. And that's it. The local government must satisfy all these citizens' needs. However, many of the special-purpose allocations for which municipalities operate have been established in ministries on the basis of partial, simplified and necessary information with no detail. On the other hand, in municipalities where information is better accessible and more specific, decision-making freedom is limited. Couldn't the solution to our burning debate on freedom today be to give the majority of our tax revenues to local governments, who can then keep their people in a way that no one feels like an insignificant minority, forgotten in their own country? Wouldn't it be wise to divert the vast majority of European Union funds from Tallinn in the next period, where the level of wealth is 135% of the average lifespan of the European Union? 135%! The rest of Estonia deserves preferential treatment because without Tallinn, the level of wealth in Estonia is only 55% of the European Union's average GDP per capita. The difference is two-and-a-half times! Our parishes are already very good spotters and carers even within the limits of the resources they have been given. Childguards, social workers, parish elders and council leaders just know that if they can't help their people, no one will help their people. What can the Riigikogu do? We need to move forward with the framing of the administrative reform so that the helpers also have more opportunities and less heartache because their hands are short. The Riigikogu holds the key to making local spotters more effective. You have the key, good friends. The people of local governments are saddened, among other things, because of the inaction of the Riigikogu, their role is marginalising in the elections to the President of the Republic of Estonia. The original idea of the electoral body has been vigorously and consciously distanced. There is also a season before the local elections. With the money borrowed cheaply, the next year's budget will certainly boost the municipalities, but it will fade quickly. In fact, right now is the best moment to fill out Article 154 of our Constitution, which says that local authorities act independently under the law. I hope that's what you want in this hall. It is not helpful for parish elders and councils if the main topic of municipal elections is the question about the concept of family. I am afraid that this debate will overshadow the serious and necessary debate on the continued strengthening of our municipalities and mock all those who notice with heartache, but cannot respond, because the choice is not theirs to make and the use of resources to decide upon them. This debate does not solve any local problems, but interferes with the search for solutions to make life as comfortable in the countryside as in the city. This debate ridicules all the efforts that local governments have already made to ensure that no one feels forgotten and insignificant in their area of residence because of age, illness or simply under-reinforced residence. This debate underestimates the Estonian people because they want to create a delusion, as if the Constitution would change as a result of this vote. It won't! Good friends! I began my speech today by saying that I fully believe in parliamentary democracy in our Estonian way, in our constitution. I am proud of the Riigikogu when this year's debates show our people that you really care about their rights, their freedoms, their future and also their desire to make Estonia in their own neighbourhood, just as the people there want. I am proud of the Riigikogu when, in addition to the burning debate on freedom and the interpretation of the Constitution, you finally arrive at these laws this season, which would bring us a green Estonian, a one-language school system and so much the necessary legal space for new data-based technologies. I don't want the rest of the world to be a little ahead of us. I want it to be the other way around. You're the expert in leadership, aren't you? Good luck with this job! Best season ever! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U7	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U8	And now music, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U10	In a presentation to Collegium Musica, Veljo Tormis's work "Thinkings With Hando Runnel" sounded. I thank the singers of Collegium Musica and their conductor Endrik One Gate. Dear Riigikogu, please rise, the President of the Republic of Estonia is leaving. And now we're going to go on with more busy business with the delivery of drafts and enquiries. Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U11	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to make to Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige, and I want to ask him about the defence budget. Tensions in the world, and also in our region, have grown steadily. At the NATO Summit held in Prague in 2002, 2% of national defence expenditure was agreed in order to maintain the elementary capacity of the alliance in case of a need to initiate defence activities. 2% of GDP is certainly not the level of national defence funding that would enable the adequate defence capabilities to be built and maintained properly, taking into account the needs of Estonia's geopolitical location. Mantra, that Estonia has met the NATO requirement of 2% of GDP, is inappropriate when we talk about the implementation of Article 3 of the North Atlantic Treaty, which in turn is a prerequisite for the implementation of Article 5. In the state budget negotiation process of 2021, different policies of coalition members have given different signals about maintaining defence spending at today's 2020 level. Reference has also been made to the possibility of extraordinary investments of up to EUR 300 million. The countries of our region, Norway, Sweden and Finland, have already significantly increased or increased their defence costs in order to significantly increase their defence capabilities and make it adequate with a risk picture. Stoic peace seems to exist in Estonia and there has been even a reduction in the total amount. On the basis of § 331 (5) of the State Budget Act and the decree of the Government of the Republic 'Conditions and procedures for drawing up the state budget strategy, the draft budget and the plan to improve the efficiency of the budget and for the transfer of state resources and the procedures for submitting reports pursuant to the State Budget Act', I would like to know from you, Mr Minister of Defence, what amount have you specifically asked the government for for defence gaps such as mid-country anti-aircraft, the modernisation and further development of maritime defence, communication and management systems...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U12	I'm very sorry, Mr. Kert, but I'm afraid you've been past 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U13	Yeah, I'm gonna need one more second... Development of armoured capabilities, acquisition of North Division communications and fire support elements. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U14	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U15	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Have a nice season. Two weeks ago, on September 1, the children started schooling. It didn't take two weeks when there was a huge confusion in the capital of Estonia about whether there was distance learning or not, who had distance education, where parents left their children, whether they didn't work, etc. Like the President of the Republic of Estonia, I believe in local governments. Estonian local authorities have organised education very well in difficult circumstances, now during the virus. Tallinn has not done so well. And that is why, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, we are handing over the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which we ask the Government of the Republic to develop a plan within the area of government of the Minister of Education, which would serve as the basis for all basic and general education institutions in Estonia, so that any restriction of access to education is scientifically justified, guided by the recommendations of the scientific advisory council that advises the government and is purposeful and proportionate, as any limitation must be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U16	Thank you. And now I ask the representative of the Government of the Republic, Mr. Aivar Rahno.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U17	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates 16 draft laws and submits one draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending the feed law. Secondly, the draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and the Law on Bankruptcy. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Food Act. Arvo Aller, the Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of these four draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaties necessary to accede to the Convention establishing the European Centre for Medium-Term Weather Forecasts. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Rene Kokk, Minister of the Environment. Sixthly, the draft Act ratifying the agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the granting of the status of associate member at the pre-accession stage with CERN. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Raul Siem, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Seventhly, the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure (guaranteeing an action for infringement of intellectual property rights). Eighth, the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act (terrestrial relations). Ninth, the draft law amending the Copyright Act (the so-called "empty tape fee system" and the extension of the Patent Office's tasks). In the Riigikogu, Raivo Aeg, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above three draft laws. 10th draft law amending the Tourism Act and the Consumer Protection Act. By the eleventh, the repeal of the Commercial Act and, consequently, the amendment of other laws. The draft law amending the Law of the Government of the Republic and other laws (mergement of the Air Administration, Road Administration and Maritime Administration). In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when dealing with these three draft laws. By the thirteenth, the draft decision of the Riigikogu to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Financial Corporation. By fourteenth, the draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act. The 15th draft law amending the VAT Act and the Customs Act. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when dealing with the above three drafts in the Riigikogu. By the 16th, the draft Act ratifying the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on the facilitation of investments and the amendment and termination of the Agreement on Mutual Protection. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Finally, the draft law amending the Aliens Act, the Higher Education Act and the Study Grants and Student Loan Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior. The drafts have been transmitted electronically to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U18	Thank you! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted 18 drafts and one inquiry. The Management Board will process them in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now please check your presence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U19	91 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 10. We will proceed to the adoption of the agenda for this working week. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the first working week of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U20	There are 84 members of the Riigikogu, there are no respondents and there are 1 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U21	As always in Monday's sittings, all those who wish to attend the meeting will have the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the two Chairs of the Riigikogu Committee for their good work here today. These are Mr Jürgen Ligi, Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, and Mrs Katri Raik, Chairman of the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption. As a result of the self-denial work of these two commissioners, it has been established in the course of the investigation of the agreement between the Estonian and American law firm concerning money laundering in Estonia that the above-mentioned agreement is not useful for Estonia, but is dangerous. This was mainly due to the association of a law firm with one of his partners, former director-general of the FBI, Louis Freeh. Fortunately, the chairmen of the committees have not kept the candle down, but have also shared this information through the press. For example, in Delfi on 20 August, Jürgen Ligi, Chairman of the Special Committee on the National Budget, published an article entitled 'I expect Helme to be dismissed and the Freeh Treaty to be revoked'. Nearly the article notes that this is an agreement of the Estonian Government, concluded with a Russian influence agent in the matter of Russian interests, including money laundering. Jürgen Ligi has also announced, including on 24 August, by means of the Õhtuleh, that Louis Freeh can be considered as an influence agent in money laundering matters in Russia. He's been given directions straight from the Kremlin, where he's probably been several times. In fact, there are more examples, but because of the lack of time, I am not going to quote them. There is no doubt that the story of a member of the Riigikogu, even more of the presidents of the special committees, cannot be compared to the saying 'women spoke in the sauna'. It can only be taken as absolute truth. All I have left to do is once again pay tribute to Jürgen Ligi and Katri Raig. At the same time, we are in a situation where we must certainly inform our allies in America, both the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as it is unthinkable that they should not know that Louis Freeh is a Russian influence agent in their own country. In view of the fact that I have been approached by some persons, who I am not going to mention at the moment, with regard to the information mentioned above, I have the intention of presenting to the US embassy all the information and any evidence of Louis Freeh's involvement regarding his involvement as a Russian influence agent. As an address, as I said earlier, I note the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. At this point, Mrs Raik and Mr Ligi, I would like to ask you to provide me with all the evidence for this week's Wednesday on Louis Freeh, on the basis of which you have come to the conclusion that she is a Russian agent. The content of Mr Ligi and Mrs Raiki is not here: please present me with all the documentary evidence (except newspapers) by 16 September at the latest, proving Louis Freeh's participation as an influence agent in Russia. I intend to present the evidence to the U.S. embassy. In any case, I suggest you respond, because otherwise, if you do not answer me, you will answer Louis Freeh's law firm. Thank you for your attention. I have a request that the President of the Riigikogu may be willing to forward my application and request to Mr Near.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U23	Thank you. As a rule, the chairman of the Riigikogu does not perform the role of post pigeon, but since Jürgen Ligi left the hall, I can ask you to forward it to him.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U24	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U25	Thank you! Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U26	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't have come here if my colleague hadn't spoken right now. We have only just finished the meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control; it has not been completed. And it was in the middle of this in order to discuss our Commission's position and this report. I think it's important to inform you how this actually works. Yes, during the summer, parliamentary hearings have taken place under the leadership of a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, in the so-called 'United Committee', both in the Committee on Corruption and in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. Of course, there is no such thing as a joint committee. That's one. Secondly, there has been no quorum at most of these meetings and, in fact, it has been a 'private initiative' of some of the MPs to satisfy their interest, where a number of high-ranking civil servants have been invited up to the Prime Minister. But I'll tell you what was today. And it's all been happening in the background of the big media shit. The special committees are discussing and squeezing the Minister of Finance and the Russian agent, as we talked about, who will be given the Kremlin guidelines. Recently, there was an end when it was announced that the vote had taken place. With 3 votes: 2 the Committee on Corruption decided all that a good colleague, Sutt, had written together, that it was a very bad thing and that it had to be stopped at all. Today, in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, we have proposed that we vote as well, because the second committee has already voted. In addition, the Government of the Republic has also been called upon to put an end to this illegal matter with the Louis Freeh Bureau. But what did you find out? A good colleague Jürgen Ligi said that what did you now, which was voting, and threw your good colleague Katri Raigi, with whom he had run through the drum during the summer, in the so-called trench, figuratively, of course, saying that this voting was not at all correct and should not have been at all. That was in response to my suggestion that we vote then too, let's see what's going on. Such a strange thing. And another thing. The fact that everything is in the best shape and the way Mr Sut's report was. Well, real life is much more complicated. I've read these secret documents, too, and many of us have read them. For example, on April 23, if I remember correctly, the Foreign Intelligence Service had to request a report on law firms. The answer came on April 24, a day later. And what was it? It was that the two offices were very bad because they were infiltrated by the Kremlin connections. But the State Department recommended them, no one has said anything about this in the report. The second thing, the Washington embassy report, is not really there. But the most eloquent of all is the cover letter from the head of the esteemed Foreign Intelligence Office, in which he says that you're a dear friend, do not take it too seriously. But good Jürgen and Katri have taken it very seriously in their zeal. It's over my leg. In fact, there is a copy of less than a few dozen articles collected from American newspapers and then a summary that Louis Freeh is an agent of the Kremlin and so on. By the way, the Senate intelligence report is also pretty funny. There is nothing about this; only one text published in the Estonian newspaper has been referred to. But that's it. On the occasion of the beginning of the season, I also welcome from myself everyone who is interested in Estonian politics. And I look in awe at Jürgen Ligi, who is the true accessories of our current Riigikogu composition. After Mart Nut and Eiki Nestor left, he's the bearer of all this continuity who knows how things are done. Perhaps I have a slightly different opinion, but as the Head of Foreign Intelligence said in his cover letter, do not take too seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U27	Thank you! Next, please speak to Urmas Espenberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U28	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you for the season that begins. I wanted to take this opportunity to say a few words about Donald Trump because I'm a member of Donald Trump's Friendship Group. Ernits is its chairman. I'll just give you an example that might help open your eyes. Then, when Trump froze Ukrainian money, he said he abused his power to have Joe Biden investigated his actions in Ukraine. And what came out of it? He had done the right thing. The story began when, after the events that began in Maidan Square, the son of American vice president Joe Biden, Hunter Biden, suddenly became a member of the board of a large Ukrainian gas company called Burisma, whose salary was set at $50,000 a month on 12 May 2014. In 2015, when Burisma was frozen due to suspicion of tax fraud, Joe Biden demanded the removal of the Ukrainian Prosecutor General, Viktor Shokin, otherwise threatening Ukraine with the freezing of USD 1 billion of American loan guarantees. According to Victoria Nuland, then Deputy Foreign Minister of the United States, the American government had already spent $5 billion to help the new government in Ukraine. So let's think about who was right. Is Trump still as black as they try to picture him? And why aren't they investigating Biden's crooks? Here's something to think about for the next election.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-09-14_U29	Thank you. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Have a nice day.
