ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our next week at work. But first I'd like to mark the historical meaning of today in a few words. In addition to the historic air attacks on Narva, the Red Army launched a large-scale air attack on Tallinn in March 1944. Nearly 300 Russian bombing planes were involved. According to official reports, 757 people were killed, including 586 civilians, 50 military personnel and 121 prisoners of war. 213 people had severe wounds and 446 had minor wounds. 1549 buildings were destroyed and 3350 buildings were damaged. About 20,000 people were left without shelter. Harju Street and the surroundings of the Estonian theatre were badly damaged, Estonia's theatre house, which was the meaning of the Estonian symbol, was destroyed. Since there were no important military objects or significant units in Tallinn, the attack was a terrorist attack and a crime against humanity. Tonight at 19.15 the bells of the churches of Tallinn will begin to beat, and the memory lights will be lit on the edge of Harju Street. Now we go to the Monday session of the 7th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is, as always, possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Mrs Heili Tõnisson, on behalf of the government of the Republic, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act. Secondly, the draft law amending the Road Transport Act and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the Riigikogu when dealing with these two draft laws. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Employment Working Conditions Act for posted workers. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. And fourthly, the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection and alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity excise. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Rene Kokk, Minister of the Environment, when the bill is being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U3	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts, which we process in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're conducting a presence check. Two remote controls don't work on Aivar Sõerdi and Urmas Kruus. We're interrupting the presence check now. Well, it seems that this problem has been solved. Let's try it again. Incoming check, please! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present and there is no 12. Next, we need to confirm this week's agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 7th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. The Riigikogu was completely unanimous: 85 members were in favour, there were no respondents and there were no abstentions. Confirmed. Since we have a number of questions today, I will remind you of the procedure for enquiries. First, the questioners receive up to five minutes from the panel, then the minister's answer will be up to 15 minutes. After that, any member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question, the duration of which is one minute. And then, as usual, there will be negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U4	The first item is the inquiry submitted on 10 February by Indrek Saare, Lauri Läänemetsa, Kalvi Tõd, Jaak Juske, Helmen Küti, Ivari Padari, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Raimond Kaljulaiu, Riina Sikkut and Katri Raigi concerning the construction of Rail Baltic railway connection. A member of the Riigikogu, Indrek Saar, receives the floor as a representative of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ratas! On 7 February this year, when you spoke in the media, you confirmed your mutual desire, along with your Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues, that Rail Baltic would be ready by 2026. At the same time, your coalition partner's leader has said that 'if we don't get a point in the coalition agreement with which we directly stop Rail Baltic, it will be possible to stop it in another way'.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U6	I'm sorry, Mr. Island! Ladies and gentlemen, Please respect the speaker and don't buzz so hard! Thank you. You may proceed!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U7	I will start again with the quote: 'If we do not get a point in the coalition agreement that we will directly stop Rail Baltic, it will be possible to stop it in another way, for example by initiating cost-benefit studies, environmental studies, demonstration of the possibility of an existing Pärnu route, etc. 'According to the joint audits carried out by the three Baltic States, the project promoters have so far failed to keep the activities agreed in the Connecting Europe Facility financing agreements on schedule or within the budget initially foreseen and the project activities are one and a half years behind the agreed timetable in the financing agreements. In Estonia, the planned 27 activities in the financing agreement have been delayed by 23 activities and the average delay is 815 days, which is significantly worse than in Latvia and Lithuania. All of this has been accompanied by infinite changes in personnel at the executive agency of the epoposo project. Your coalition agreement states that if the next budget period of the European Union does not provide 81% of the co-financing for the Rail Baltic project, you will review the project's profitability, path, schedule and local stops. In other words, if the desired result of the European Union budget is not achieved, it is a question of not stopping Järvakandi, Kaisma, Toots, Häädemeeste or any other stop, as well as stopping the whole project. The last passenger train to Pärnu left 15 months ago. It is clear today that there will be no new railway in Pärnu by 2026. Rather, the current management of the project raises questions as to whether this railway will ever be completed or will remain the only effect of closing the passenger train traffic in Pärnu, which the Rail Baltic project has brought about with regard to mobility opportunities for the Pärnu people. With these troubled thoughts, we have asked you eight questions about the implementation of the project, to which we expect your answers. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U8	Thank you. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! Thank you for this question, which has been submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group, including on 10 February. The inquiry concerns Rail Baltic. Since there are many questions, I will start by giving them answers. The first question: 'How do you assess the progress of the Rail Baltic project so far? " The Rail Baltic project has now reached the design phase in all three Baltic countries, and construction work in all three countries has started or is about to begin. The spatial planning of RB and the strategic assessment of the environmental impact of RB began in Estonia in 2012. County planning was established by the Minister of State Administration at the beginning of 2018 and in the second half of that year a preliminary project for the part of Rail Baltic Estonia was completed. To date, all three sections of the main route have concluded contracts in Estonia for the construction of the main railway and related infrastructure project. Designing major local sites has also begun. The first item financed by Rail Baltic was the tram connection at Tallinn Airport and was completed as early as 2017. In May 2019 the construction of the first object of the Rail Baltic main route, Saustinõmme viaduct, in Harjumaa, also began. The acquisition of land for Rail Baltic is also underway, its progress depends primarily on the design process. Now, the acquisition of lands. Rail Baltic passes through 864 cadastral units in Estonia, with 621 private and 74 local cadastral units, which must be acquired by the state in order to establish Rail Baltic. About 53% of the land required for the Rail Baltic route is state land and the vast majority of the land is agricultural and forestry. In individual cases, these are parcels for which construction rights are laid down. As of the beginning of February, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has transferred 204 immovable property to work within the framework of the acquisition list. Land acquisition operations have been initiated for 156 immovable property and for the purposes of the advance railway project or changes to the preliminary project. A notice of public interest acquisition of immovable property and a tender have been submitted to 114 owners of immovable property in total. Of all the bids submitted, the landowner has consent for 104 properties, the money needed to buy out the land is available for 76 properties, 17 for changes in borders and 12 for the exchange of the property. About 40 parcels have been acquired by February of this year. Rail Baltic and related objects are responsible for financing and designing local objects, Rail Baltic Estonia OÜ and RB Rail AS are responsible for designing the main railway route. Land acquisition has been entrusted to the Land Board by MKM and the Ministry of the Environment. The Road Administration is involved in the construction of infrastructure. Now, the second, third and fourth questions, I'm going to read them out at once, and I'm going to answer them together. The second question: "Do you think that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, responsible for the Rail Baltic project, has been able to improve project management by Estonia and the quality and speed of the activities carried out in Estonia? The third question: " Have the changes outlined in the previous response been sufficient in your opinion? ' Question 4: "Does the main reasons for the critical assessment of Estonia lie in the time when the responsible minister was Taavi Aas or Kadri Simson? ' And the answers to those three questions. The physical planning of Rail Baltic started already in 2012, the design phase was completed last year and preceded by the drafting of county plans. It should be taken into account that this is a large-scale project and that the physical planning of Rail Baltic began from scratch in essence. It is clear that in a democratic society it takes time to design large-scale infrastructure projects and objects, and it is often impossible to keep to the projected timetable. For example, the planning phase of Rail Baltic lasted from 2012 to 2018, although more optimistic forecasts indicate that the deadline for planning was already the end of 2015. As you can see here, it's about three years apart. Such risks were taken into account in the design of the project and the completion of Rail Baltic is still possible. The current and future delays in the railway design phase can be offset by the fact that both design and construction take place in sections. Consequently, in September 2019 the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure gave the joint venture RB Rail AS and Rail Baltic Estonia OÜ a guide to accelerate the construction of railway infrastructure. This infrastructure includes bridges, viaducts and eco-ducts. One of the key objectives of this guideline is to invest around EUR 200 million in the construction of Rail Baltic by the end of 2022. The risk of financing the project. Progress in rail construction is an essential condition for successfully applying for additional funding from CEF. The most important aspect of the construction of Rail Baltic is the availability of the necessary support tools and self-financing. As we know, negotiations are under way on the European Union's new long-term budget, involving the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance and the State Chancellery. The situation with regard to Rail Baltic and similar projects is currently positive, and the maximum EU contribution rate of 80 to 85% is, according to current information, available for expenditure and co-financing. Rail Baltic has been mentioned both in the context of the Connecting Europe Facility and as a project of connectivity relevant to the trans-European transport network in the negotiating package for the EU budget to be discussed at the level of EU leaders. As a general rule, such documents do not specifically mention projects. The fact that Rail Baltic is specifically mentioned as a project in this document demonstrates the importance of the project in the European Union and is the result of the joint efforts of our national officials and politicians. Surely we will continue to do so. Question five and question six, I will answer them together. Question 5: "What have your previous proposals as Prime Minister been to Taavi Asa and Kadri Samson to improve the management of the Rail Baltic project? Have they been implemented? What are your suggestions for Taavi Asa's future? ' Question 6: Have mistakes been made in the decisions of the Prime Minister so far, or is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications responsible? When it's done, which ones? ' The implementation of such projects on an international scale can only be a result of joint teamwork. More specific physical planning of the Rail Baltic project has taken place, as has already been said, since 2012. During this period, there have been five governments in power in Estonia, three of which have also assumed the responsibility of the Social Democratic Party. I sincerely believe that all governments and governments, including economic and communication ministers, have made a major contribution to the success of the project. Indeed, the audit of the National Audit Office highlights the risks of planning and financing the project. They must be taken into account when establishing RB, but more importantly, these risks must also be systematically addressed so that they do not materialise. This responsibility lies primarily with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. According to the Act of the Government of the Republic, the development and implementation of the state's economic policy and economic development plans are subject, inter alia, to the administration of the MKM in the field of transport and are within the competence of the respective ministers. However, given the strategic importance of the rail link for the Baltics as a whole, I have agreed with my Baltic counterparts that we will monitor the progress of the project jointly at Prime Minister level and work together to ensure that the railway is completed by 2026. As Prime Minister, I have raised the topic of funding and faster promotion of Rail Baltic in dozens of meetings with my European counterparts, the President and Vice-Presidents of the European Commission and the President of the European Council. For example, between the beginning of 2019 and today, I have discussed with my European counterparts the promotion of the Rail Baltic financing project more than 30 times. This is, of course, complemented by the good work of other ministers and many good officials. The last meetings with the Baltic Prime Ministers, where Rail Baltic was one of the main topics, took place in December 2019 and February 2020. The next meeting is scheduled to take place in Vilnius at the end of March this year. We have agreed that the management model of Rail Baltic needs to be optimised. The optimisation proposals were entrusted to transport ministers from all three countries. Question 7: "How do you assess the current activities of Latvia and Lithuania in realising the Rail Baltic project? " In Latvia and Lithuania, Rail Baltic is in a similar phase as in Estonia. Spatial planning has already been established in Latvia in 2016, in Lithuania in 2017. Separate decisions are needed between Kaunas and the Lithuanian-Polish border and between Kaunas and Vilnius; special plans have also started there. The design work is underway on a 270 km route of approximately 75%. Construction works have reached the most advanced stage in the Kaunas region of Lithuania. By the end of 2020, a contract will be concluded for the construction of the Riga airport terminal and railway. The most important goal is to complete the Rail Baltic railway connection by the deadline, repeated by the prime ministers of all three Baltic states in Tallinn in February. Question 8: What has been the current involvement and communication strategy of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications? Is this the reason that there are still so many unanswered questions and uncertainties about the Rail Baltic project in society? 'The communication related to the RB project is divided according to the activity between the various parties, the largest part of which is left to the local implementation unit Rail Baltic Estonia. In the framework of the project, involvement activities have been carried out in a consistent manner since the preparation of the regional plans. During these more than 80 public consultations were conducted, this is the unprecedented largest number of public debates that have been conducted in Estonia so far for any project. In addition, there has been a continuous exchange of correspondence with local residents and dozens of meetings with local authorities to discuss different solutions concerning railway design and construction. These meetings and exchanges of information will continue now that a core design and related environmental impact assessment programme is being drawn up. For example, public consultations will take place in Vändra on 16 March and in Rapla on 19 March on the environmental impact assessment programmes in the sections concerning these municipalities. In addition, RBE representatives, project managers and engineers meet local residents whose land ownership and life are most directly affected by the design and construction of a new railway line. Everyone is welcome! Rail Baltic Estonia has consistently published a special Rail Baltic page every year, both as an extra page for Maaleht and Postimees, which gives an overview of what is going on within the project and will take place in the future. The media and journalists and the wider public in general have access to the public documentation of the project and to the specialists carrying out the project. In addition to other platforms, relevant information on the project can be obtained from the websites of the RBE and the RBR Joint Undertaking. The parties to the project regularly issue a digital newsletter with which everyone can join. The Joint Undertaking, together with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania's partners, has opened a "digital information centre" last year, which is constantly evolving according to the progress of the project. Specific local objects and their progress have been identified. In addition, information about the project is provided through social media on an ongoing basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U10	Thank you, Prime Minister. There are a number of questions for you. First Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I am interested in a small clarification of this financing risk. We all know, we have heard before, that co-financing comes from the Connecting Europe Facility, CEF. You said such a sentence that it required the availability of own resources, and the funding is currently positive. Please, can you explain for a while this existence of own funds, do they exist? And what does it mean that there is no financing risk at the moment and that the situation is positive? How long is this moment, and will it last?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U12	Thank you very much for this question. When we talk about public funding first, the question is what is included in the national budget strategy. Co-financing is currently included in the national budget strategy. I mean 2021, 2022 and 2023 because for a longer period we do not have a RES. In addition, land acquisition has been included in the state budget for this year and EUR 7.95 million has been planned for the 2020 budget for the acquisition of land. Right now, I'd divide it into two different blocks. One block is that if we have to finance the Rail Baltic project in the future MFF, what will be the financing model, or percentage, that Estonia should pay. At the moment, it is indeed planned to have the same financing model as in this MFF, and now the question is what will be the total funding for the completion of Rail Baltic by 2026. The moment will last until the European Union budget is adopted. If you ask when MFF will be accepted, it will be very difficult to predict. Estonia has said that as soon as possible, but of course we have our priorities and our wishes. To just say a few words about this previous Council meeting, I believe that today is quite far from this general agreement. This has also been the reason why Estonia has actually requested additional funding for the Rail Baltic project. If we are thinking of the offer by President-in-Office of the Council, Charles Michel, before the last Council meeting, in which we said that we wanted Rail Baltic to be funded, then in this offer or proposal, as I said to you, Rail Baltic has an entry and wording in it, but, of course, there is still an additional need for funding for the three Baltic States, and this proposal by Charles Michel, which he made before the last Council meeting, does not contain. If you ask, what is this additional need, which is still in the air at the moment, it can be said that it is about 2 billion to the three Baltic States in total. A rather large part of this is also connected to this Kaunas Vilnius connection. If you ask about Estonia, knowing the moment here I stress several times, and I underlined that we have not had construction procurement properly, it could all change, and certainly it will change, is that, in this seven years, we would like to increase Estonia's investments a little more than 400 million. So I guess that's what the MFF process is going through.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U13	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U14	Thank you. It is well known that the construction of Rail Baltic has been behind schedule for several years, and it is highly unlikely that the money already allocated by the European Union taxpayer will be used during this period. By acquiring land alone, we are totally behind schedule, with about 5% of what we need in three years. If you extrapolate it, it would take us more than a century to get all these lands. We can't get any other objects ready in time. I am looking at the development of the eastern border, for example, if the original plan had been moved forward, it would be ready by now, or smaller things. For example, the building of the Estonian knighthood has already been in the budget once, but it is still completely zero. I will be honest with you that I am concerned, and I want to know how we got there, that we will not be able to complete the deadline by rail, the eastern border or even the construction of smaller things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U15	Thank you, Honourable Taavi Clothes. I see that you have returned to active politics after a little break, through your speeches, and I have missed these debates, frankly. So thank you for that! But then let's take all these things apart. First of all, your accusation that Rail Baltic has not progressed as quickly as 2012 was forecast. I'm sure there isn't. At the moment, we see that certain stages have been longer, including the acquisition of your countries. And what am I supposed to do now? Bounce that ball back at you and tell you what was done in the house of Stenbock in 2012? I won't do it, of course I won't. I think we need to be guided by what I said: all governments have tried to develop Rail Baltic and to act as quickly as possible. This is the biggest, largest international investment that has restored independence in Estonia, and it has taken longer than was originally planned. I still believe that if today's governance scheme between the three Baltic states is improved, it will be possible to move within the deadline that was set at the time. I continue to be very strong in the faith of Rail Baltic. And it has also been my initiative to meet the three Baltic Prime Ministers that Rail Baltic must be under the eye of the Prime Ministers every time these meetings take place on a regular basis three times a year, but it is already clear that more will come this year. Now, you're upset about the eastern border and its development. On the contrary, I say that I believe that very concrete steps have been taken to make progress with this. I may be wrong about the date here, and I apologise to you, but it was either the decision of 25 or 26 February 2015, which said that we know how much the eastern border costs. Well, it's hindsight, but we all understand that this assessment was made without any natural, geological research. It was 2015. A few days later, the Riigikogu elections came up, and it was not possible to do so in time. It has now improved, after all, a very fundamental survey of the land and the soil has been carried out to see how it can proceed. The development of the eastern border is definitely progressing. This has been done by the previous government, and this is what today's government wants to do. So what I'm saying is that the development of the eastern border is definitely in focus. Now, from that knighthood building you're worried about. Well, it's true here that maybe it could have been done a lot faster. At one point, the state's contingency center had to come. Then, I remember, during the previous government, this decision was re-evaluated and it was found that the contingency centre could make a better location, even more so than considering that the knighthood building could remain a representative building of the state. From there, the corresponding state investment was refocused on the completion of the contingency centre. I believe that there are also political forces in this Chamber who say that there is absolutely no point in privatising the knighthood building with state or public money and that it should, I don't know, be sold, privatized. My position remains that if we were to build on the location of this building in Toompea, the Old Town, opposite the Dome Church, then this building would still deserve to be repaired by the state, written into the state's investment plan. As of today, decisions have been made in the government office that this process will be led by the State Chancellery in cooperation with the Minister of State Administration and the Ministry of Finance. So I believe that, as early as the end of April, we will see concrete progress on the annual figures as well. What I know is that the planning of the premises is already taking place there, and they're looking at how to fix this building. So in that sense, I even agree with your impatience. We need to move faster, and I hope that you will be a great supporter of this good and positive decision that could be made in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U16	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U17	Thank you. Good George! Here's the question. As you said, there will probably be large-scale procurements here in the near future, and construction will soon be in the Rail Baltic. At the same time, the government has taken into its plans that I have read in the media about building 2 + 2 roads in Estonia, increasing the 'black cover' programme, i.e. covering dusty roads with black cover. But it's all going to the same sector, the construction sector. I'm afraid we may not have enough technology, labour and other resources, all kinds of clay, and so on. Have you analyzed these things in the government if you have proposed that other developments, 2 + 2 roads and black cover, be dealt with? What's government priority number 1?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U18	Thank you, good Squid! Don't worry and don't be afraid! We'll try to move on here together. I believe that you, too, in your own area, if you look at South-East Estonia or, for example, Võru County and Võru City, there are many ways in which the state should actually come to help. Let us also talk about these transit routes, for example. Here, I believe, in fact, that more state support is needed, and I promise that I will take this comment and this criticism seriously. Now, yes, indeed, today's government has said that more dustless roads need to be taken under black cover. It should be a greater ambition than it has been so far. And I am pleased that in the last state budget, in addition to 5 million more roads, 10 million more were added for this year, a total of 15 million. This, of course, does not mean ensuring a full asphalt cover, but it does not mean building a black cover or a hard cover. So we get quite a few miles, roughly speaking or approaching the axe method, we get about 150 kilometers of better roads. Of course, everything depends on procurement, but it could take about EUR 100000 per kilometre. Let's keep talking. You raised with concern what will happen in the context of Rail Baltic if today's government also wants to make 2 + 2 road connections. To be honest, I recall that the Social Democrats have once said in the elections that all major roads must be made with 2 + 2 connections: Tallinn, Tallinn, Tallinn, Tallinn, Narva. I'm not your mouthpiece, of course, but don't undermine that ambition. I think safe roads are really important. The question is how to get this resource, and how it distributes it is absolutely right. One is a natural resource, the other is a building resource, the third is definitely a fleet resource. I would like to congratulate Finance Minister Martin Helmet here. I think it is a bold idea that he has come up with, perhaps looking a little further than today and tomorrow, to undertake private-public cooperation projects, PPPs. I think someone mentioned in the office today or a minister said that you see Latvia already moving, Riga detour is expected to be done with PPPs in a certain part. I think it is very reasonable to consider different options. And in that sense, it is clear that the basic construction of Rail Baltic will not start tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but that more procurement will be needed here, as you said, you are familiar with it. That's very right. But we really need to consider, first of all, how we are dealing with mineral resources or natural resources, and what our ability in the construction sector is, in the case of road construction, I mean the machinery park. All of this, of course, must be taken into account. On the other hand, it is good luck that we are a common market in the European Union, isn't it? Let's hope we get the best price-quality ratio. But it's clear that there's work here and there's nothing more to do. The last question was what priority 1 is. Well, it is impossible, in my opinion, to highlight such a single priority in the state budget. Priority No 1 is the well-being of Estonian people, the development of Estonia. If you ask what priority number 1 is, you have to do everything. There are certainly very important dust-free roads in rural areas. If we look at Estonia's connection to other Baltic countries and to the centre of the European Union, there is no connection today. So I think, if we talk about this Rail Baltic one more time, it's definitely more than a high-speed rail. I believe that Rail Baltic is a dream, both mentally and physically, of a united Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U19	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U20	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Just by referring to your answer, I would add that neither the PPP is a miracle. This possibility has been discussed during different governments, and the final issue is still what it will cost the country in the medium term. This isn't about anything that's suddenly been pulled out of your pocket and that's gonna solve everything. Now that we're talking about Rail Baltic, what's in the ear? From the outside, differences of opinion remain in the hands of the prime ministers of the three countries, who come together and say that we live on friendlyly. But it's clear there's a conflict somewhere. However, it is extremely difficult to understand what and which country the specific contradictions with which this project must be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U21	Thank you. This is, in my opinion, a question on the nail's head in the light of the current situation. Honestly! So what's the problem? The problem today is that we have RBR, which has its head office in Riga and has daughters in Lithuania and Estonia, and we have so-called national Rail Baltic companies in three countries, such as RBR Estonia. And the truth is, I think there's a way to improve the guidance scheme here. When Mr Indrek Saar, the representative of the heirs, introduced this question, he also said that people have left work or there has been a staff change, to which you are referring. Yeah, it's been a problem. If you ask why some people have left, maybe it's just that the pyramid or the control system hasn't been clear. When consulted by the European Commission, they too say that there is a need to make the management system clearer, more concrete, so that there is one channel or link of responsibility. That is the main thing we are trying to deal with together with our good Latvian and Lithuanian counterparts in order to create the best governance scheme. I'm talking about a command scheme that'll be in place until Rail Baltic is completed. There has always been public talk about what the operating scheme will be. That is a separate question. But until we're finished, I think we need to take urgent steps here and make decisions. And that was also one of my proposals when we met three Baltic Prime Ministers here in Tallinn to try to come, I do not know, at the end of March or in the beginning of April in Vilnius again and, apart from the analysis carried out by the infrastructure ministers of the three countries, to decide this issue. The answer to you is that yes, I do not think the governance scheme is working as well as it should today, and it needs to be changed. This is about one design, one procurement, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one building, one And I think it will give a better result in terms of time or pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U22	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U23	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister Ratas! In your previous responses, you repeatedly referred to the fact that five governments have actually been in place so far in the planning of the Rail Baltic project. But there are some differences. Compared to the last government you run, the previous four governments have had no matter what their vision of the technical details of how the best way to do Rail Baltic would have been, in effect, the very team you described. Perhaps they have always agreed and stood for Rail Baltic to come, bearing in mind Estonia's opportunities for economic development. For security reasons too, good connections with Europe have always been a priority. However, the signals of this government are very controversial, and that is why my question arises. At the same time, with all these negotiations, which are complicated and which concern the future funding period of the European Union, Minister of Finance Martin Helme states that Rail Baltic will drain Estonian money without offering anything special in return. How do you see it? How's that really going to be? Do you know the support of the Minister of Finance as a specialist in this field and see his commitment to solving the financing problems of Rail Baltic in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U24	Thank you. I feel the support of all the government partners for what we have agreed, including Rail Baltic. I also feel the support given today by the Minister of Finance. No minister has said at the meeting of the government or elsewhere that, to the moon, we are doing something in the same way or the other way, a respected or respected member of the Riigikogu, Saar, so that this Rail Baltic is not coming. The coalition agreement has also mentioned that if the next budget period of the European Union does not guarantee 81% of the co-financing for the Rail Baltic project, we will review the project's profitability, path, schedule and local stops, but in the meantime we will continue activities that support Estonian infrastructure in general. I think I have said the same sentence about five or ten times, and the same thought during the previous government coalition, when we also worked with you and your party in a pleasant way. If something should change in the next budget of the European Union, for example, as regards the percentage of funding, it is my duty, the government's duty to come before the Riigikogu and discuss what we are going to do. This principle is even enshrined in the agreement of the three Baltic States. I understand what you're saying. Yes, one of the government departments has not supported this project if we are talking about the pre-election period, but it is clear that the coalition agreement will be the result of some kind of compromise. And the compromise has been that if the percentage of co-financing does not change or at least does not change very much, then we will go ahead with the project. If it does, then it is actually a question to the Riigikogu that we are going to do what we are going to do next. Is this a substantial state contribution for seven years? Yeah, it's a massive state contribution for seven years, it can't be denied. But it can also be said that if I repeat this again, these are very predictable sums, because construction procurements have not been carried out, the Estonian share of Rail Baltic will cost about 1.6 billion euros, we hope today that the European Union will cover about 1.3 billion of it. This amount, of course, is also European Union taxpayers' money, but even 300 million, perhaps more or less, is difficult today to say once and for all, seven years is, of course, a large sum. We must also take into account that certain funding has already taken place today. It is clear that this project requires a large amount of funding. So, in this sense, the Minister of Finance is right that 300 million to at least 300 million to seven years is a lot of money. But I will not feel today when we are in the middle of the MFF negotiations and it is not known what the percentage of co-financing will be known is what is proposed on paper, and the same percentage on paper that applies in this period is that now there is a desire to change something. I am sure that you also brought this up in your inquiry to a separate debate, as well as these additional stops of Rail Baltic. And that is what I think there should be more courage on this subject in a good way. It is not necessary to limit yourself to Ülemiste, Rapla or Pärnu. I know that there are 12 more local stops marked in this plan, and I think they should be considered seriously in Harjumaa, I don't know, for example Luige, Saku, Kiisa or Assak, or in Raplamaa, for example Järvakandi or Kohila, or be they in Pärnumaa, for example Kaisma, Tootsi, Kilksama, Surju or Häädemeeste. These are the opportunities to build on this path. All of this will require extra money to add to the money that I have mentioned earlier, but this funding will be different depending on the stops and access routes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U25	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U26	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I am pleased to hear your self-confident answers to the questions asked in your inquiry, which is what the Rail Baltic project really needs. And I do not wish to criticise you on this matter. On the contrary, I very much hope that Rail Baltic will do as you say here. However, we cannot get over or around the audit of the National Audit Office and its results, nor can we get over or around the fact that our responsible Minister of Finance is without internal motivation. As a result of all this, the National Audit Office has said that Rail Baltic can be completed five years later due to the current lag. You yourself have also admitted that there are three years behind. Nevertheless, you hope that the railway will be completed in time, i.e. 2026, although initially it would be completed in 2024. And now I'm asking you if this optimization of management will help. You guys used to say it was supposed to help. But what are the mechanisms that would help to optimise management by speeding up the rest of the process so that we can get back to the planned action schedule?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U27	Thank you for your question and for your good word. So what does that mean, essentially? In my understanding, this means, above all, that there is one company in the three Baltic States that is ultimately responsible for the final project, construction procurement, construction works. Let it be said here that if something is finished in nature, it will remain on the balance sheet in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. But this means, above all, that at the design and construction stage, this thing is centrally managed through one company. This is what the European Commission has also communicated in its speeches and in its prayer. That should speed up. Now, in a good way, it's so Estonian, how are we stuck in numbers: will it be completed in 2024 or 2026 or, I don't know, 2029? Of course it's important. In my opinion, Estonia and the people here have been a very strong railroad believer, in the best sense. In different eras, decades, rail has been a very good helper for the Estonian people, whether it is a narrow-track railway or a railway that meets today's powerful European standards. What the representative of the heirs, honourable member of the Riigikogu, Saar mentioned is that he does not know whether the railway is coming to Pärnu at all or whether there is no coming to the people of Pärnu has been important rail connection and train traffic. I believe that this is the case today, and it will continue to be so in the future. I also know the people who are talking about how Häädemeeste or Laiksaare was driven along a narrow-track railway. So I do believe that efforts are being made to make this railway happen at one point. After all, this rail is not done for five or ten years; rail is still more of an infrastructure that lasts decades than not hundreds of years. So, yes, the management scheme needs to improve the design, construction and construction phases. That's the main thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U28	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I too am forced to come back the day when you asked the Riigikogu for the powers to take office as Prime Minister. And I was worried about the wording of the coalition agreement, which you have actually quoted here many times, and which, let's say straight out, actually opened the door to halt the construction of the so-called Rail Baltic if any of this is possible. After all, the same quoted sentence says that if European Union funding is not at least 81%, almost everything is possible. I was very worried about that at the time. Now, it has happened in Pärnu that EKRE has been included and a coalition agreement has been written into which such a point has been entered: 'We support the restoration of passenger train traffic towards Pärnu in Tallinn. ' We're not talking about Rail Baltic. 'We support the restoration of passenger train traffic towards Tallinn-Pärnu. " This is what Pärnu's coalition agreement says, which has not yet received the council's mandate. They want to restore what your good partymate Kadri Simson put away as a minister. Do you understand what's going on? Or has it really been agreed that Rail Baltic will never come?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U30	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U31	Thank you, good questioner. Well, now I'm really sorry. If in any way I have tried to answer these questions about the Tallinn City Council in this chair, because I am already a resident of Tallinn for several generations, now that I have to answer questions about the Pärnu City Council, I find it difficult. But, of course, you have the right to ask and so you can ask about all 79 municipalities. First, Pärnu. I hope that the unstable situation in Pärnu will be resolved as soon as possible and that local elections will be met with a strong coalition. You mentioned a coalition agreement, which, I don't know, has been signed or not, but something was signed there. I saw that there was beautiful news in Estonian National Broadcasting; people were happy and happy there. You say that you support the restoration of the railway connection to Tallinn. I'll sign it with two hands. Do you really think they're thinking about setting up a narrow-track railroad or running a horse-cart? Well, I don't think so. I guess they're still thinking of creating a decent rail link, decent train traffic. I understand that you want it to be fixed: Ülemiste-Pärnu have 38 minutes, as Rail Baltic suggests. I understand you want a reference to Rail Baltic. But I think that the people of Estonia are much more specific, pragmatic and simpler and say that when the train comes between Tallinn and Pärnu, it is the same rail link that is being spoken about today at national level. I have not heard such thoughts from the state that we are making Rail Baltic and then we are building another Pärnu-Tallinn association. I think that might go a little too far. Well, then, you'll have to go over it. After all, you are a member of Pärnu City Council and I have heard that you are actively attending council meetings. After all, you can always ask about it yourself, either in the form of a written question or an inquiry, I do not know exactly what opportunities you have there. But in any case, if you ask whether to make another railway between Tallinn and Pärnu in addition to Rail Baltic, I think it's going to be a lot. Let's get the railroad ready for Rohuküla. If several trains are heading in one direction towards Pärnu, it is not reasonable. You said another very painful sentence that, of course, scratched my ear. You said that this principle of the coalition agreement opened the door to stopping the construction of Rail Baltic. I say it's the right principle. I cannot imagine how the Government of the Republic can proceed with this project if Europe changes the percentages. This requires a very serious dialogue, a discussion here in the Riigikogu. What happens if this funding is going to be, for example, fantasizing, 50:50? It's a radically different approach, a whole different amount of money. I think this point is very rightly included in the coalition agreement. And I will be honest to say that, as I recall, this is defined in a similar way in the agreement between the Baltic States: if the share of co-financing changes, the project will be reviewed. I understand that you want to fish for such a political saying from here, go to the public and say that you see, this government opened the door, as you said, to stop Rail Baltic. Then please use my words to balance your message in front of the people and tell them that I do not think so. Then I think it's a fair game. You say you see, this government is bad and bad, but I say you see, this government is busy and trying to do things. And that's good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U32	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! On 13 January, a letter to the members of the Riigikogu and also to the members of the government came in a mailbox, including you, containing four lines: 'It is reasonable to stop the Rail Baltic project that is harmful to Estonia. In order to avoid irreparable damage to nature and the economy, it is smart to use existing railway corridors in the development of infrastructure, as public letters and various social organisations have repeatedly called for. " This letter has been signed, I don't know, certainly more than a hundred journalists, poets, artists, singers, and scientists from different walks of life. Can you tell them that to build Rail Baltic through Pärnu, in 2014 the government's decision to tell them explicitly that this process will not be reversed and to tell the people of Pärnu that this process will not be reviewed, reversed or closed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U34	Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U35	Thank you. To be honest, if you ask me if I can say that this decision was made in 2014, then I do not have any information to take about this particular year at the moment. But the principle you're referring to is correct. When you start talking about changing the path, which RBR and RBE are doing a little bit at this point in order to find better solutions in the final phase of the preliminary project, I have said that today I think it is important to move forward with the preliminary project to the construction phase, because as soon as we do one of the bumpy ones here or make the road straighter, it means an extra moon again. These things have been discussed by now, as I said, some public meetings are still ahead. Now, I take this letter and any other signal from society very seriously. Of course, a large investment, a quite broad railway corridor raises questions about how we keep our nature and, like Kalvi Tõud here, is concerned about whether there are enough mineral resources, resources. It's all right, and I guess these people need to be answered seriously. When we talk about connecting Estonia to the Central and Western European rail network through Rail Baltic, I believe we are currently planning to build around 21 kilometres of noise barrier walls, over 80 bridges or overpasses, 24 ecoviaducts for our animals and about 8 light traffic tunnels. It is also important to ensure the passage of amphibians, about 80 of them. Such things must, of course, be borne in mind. Now, with regard to the economic impact, perhaps I would like to bring out one thing, although I do not know how much you want to put it under the economy, perhaps you would place it under the environment or under road safety. According to Ernst & Young's 2017 analysis, in 2035 the Rail Baltic countries are moving in the north-south direction by 465 to 481 million tonnes. It also stated that RB's marketing potential, given that the total volume of goods transported by road and by sea is about 13 to 20 million tonnes per year and therefore the market share in 2035 is 2,9 to 4,2% of the total volume. When we talk about Rail Baltic, it is in terms of road safety that a thousand rekats a day can even be said to be 1600 rekats, but well, a thousand rekats a day, in fact, moving from Tallinn to Tallinn to Riga or Tallinn to the railway between Pärnu and Ikla. This should, in any case, be environmentally friendly and also help to ensure road safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U37	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U38	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I will continue on the subject of funding. Rail Baltic is certainly the most important infrastructure project that we are developing at the moment as a long-term perspective. Your responses sounded through uncertainty about the extent to which its funding is guaranteed and whether the current proportion of funding between Estonia and the European Union will be maintained. My understanding of the European Commission's conversations and answers is that no one has wanted to open this proportion. 85% of European Union funding, regardless of whether we are talking about the next budget period or the next budget period. What is your understanding of this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U39	Thank you. Well, that's an interesting situation now. You say that there are uncertain answers here, but before that, they said that they would give firm answers, too, from the opposition. So you grab what it's like. But the beauty is in the eyes of the viewer. First of all, you say this is the most important project. Well, I don't know if that's the most important thing, but it's definitely important. One very important project. I'm just saying to the side here, we can't get over or around syncing the power grid. I also consider this a very important project, so that the electricity grid in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania can be synchronised. And here we are actually making a pretty good move in this MFF negotiation period. Now, you're asking if it's been heard that the percentage of CEF is being changed, i.e. if it could be anything other than 85%: 15%. It is clear that the Riigikogu negotiates these negotiations on its own level and I negotiate them at the level of my employees or co-workers. I haven't been put on another percentage of the table at this point when we're talking about CEF. But when we talk about co-financing in general, the percentages are presented in very different ways. For example, it was only recently that I fought in Brussels for cohesion policy. Estonia's co-financing was 45%. I said no, we can't agree with that in any way. Life has improved, prosperity has increased. What about a triple jump from 15% to 45%? That doesn't make any sense. Now, fortunately, they've brought it down. Mr. Sutt, listen up! It's not 45% anymore, it's 35%. But still, I think we should fight to reduce it further. Let's keep talking. It's not the only percentage we stand for. Take, for example, the financing of the European Union in relation to rural matters, agricultural matters. It's the same here. I think we should stand up for reducing co-financing. At the moment, as you know very well, 55% is proposed: 45%. Here, we must also stand up for reducing co-financing. At one point, we may be told that we will also reduce the co-financing in CEF. This is where we need to keep this position and protect it. But that doesn't mean it's settled. Like I said, we don't know how big this MFF is gonna be. And here I recall these thoughts when I last had the opportunity to stand before the Committee on European Union Affairs. When I went to the Council, I also said a sentence there that, however, the volume of the European Union's budget, some say it is 1.0%, and it can completely replay the cards, if that is the case. Of course you shake your head, you know the European Union's fiscal policy better. But I'm saying that there are countries there today that have 1,0%. The last time, there were four countries in the Council who said 1.0% and not an ounce more. Perhaps, at the end of the day, we are saying that the Finnish proposal was to see that it was still good at 1.07%, as we remember. They said it wasn't okay then, too. Estonia has nevertheless maintained a position here that we must maintain the strength of the European Union. We've said it could be 1.16%. We take all these digital solutions, environmental desires, border protection, security, defence policy. The European Union is constantly facing new ambitions. I very much liked the saying of my good fellow Luxembourg Prime Minister at the entrance or at the doorstep there that, on the one hand, we are always talking about new ambitions, that the European Union must be more ambitious, and then we will say that less money, less resources. It's, you know, really hard to put together. You can't do that. But I agree that this proportion should be maintained in any case. And thank you for your support and cooperation. That's what's important right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U40	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Having listened to your answer to Mr Kalvi Tõlle, I would once again like to congratulate you on your enthusiasm when you said that the money for local tea is to be increased. But I sincerely hope that we will not lose this enthusiasm if we start discussing the country's budgetary strategy or the state budget for 2021 very soon. Life has been shown by the local government, and I am well aware that this money does not even cover regular care support, not to mention road investment. But to the question. You were very enthusiastic about local stops. After a lot of communication with the designers and the entire RB team during the previous work, yes, in the end these local stops were agreed to draw the project, but there was always a sentence that there was also a need for a government and state guide and a decision that they would be built. I have a very specific question: when will there be a real decision from the government that these stops will be completed, and also about trains? There may be stops, but there must also be a decision on trains...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U43	...and this decision must be made long in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U44	Thank you for your good word. Life is black and white, one says one thing, the other says another, and after all, the truth is there somewhere in between, as they say, a church in the middle of a village. But what I want to say is that you know that in recent years local governments in Estonia have been taken as very serious partners. It is not the case that, as a country, we say that we are making some changes, but there is no money given to local governments. As a very good former head of local government, you may feel that the decisions that have been made here over the last two or three years have given the local governments a lot of extra money. We start by increasing the rate of income tax without imposing tasks, taking early childhood education, where the state has supported raising the salaries of kindergarten teachers and paying extra money. I believe they've helped the local authorities. This part of the roads is really positive for me, too. But now, of course, you have come to a painful subject, the RES and the state budget in the future. I understand we're talking about Rail Baltic right now, but there's no way I can miss today's economic situation. Looking at the news of foreign markets, you are certainly aware that on Monday, for example, trading on Wall Street was stopped for 15 minutes. Of course, this is primarily about what is happening in the face of the corona virus in the world. And it will certainly also have an impact on the economy, on the financial markets. So I'm glad the Minister of Finance has, in a good way, taken the bull by the horns. We also have an office decision. As far as I know today at 15:00, he has convened the widest possible meeting, and Eesti Pank has also been invited to discuss possible economic and fiscal effects. So if you say today that you see the budget or the RES will be like this, today's situation, what's going on in the world, could actually confuse a lot of cards. Now I come to the other part of your question. You ask when you will know exactly how many stops and specifically how many trains will come. We're not at that stage yet. Like I said, pre-design is in the final phase. I have said that we could move forward with 17 objects, make this preliminary project still a basis to proceed quickly with construction procurement. But, of course, I guess at some point the subject will come to the table. Once the MFF is in place and the new management scheme is in place, we have to decide where to make these stops. Personally, I support this plan that there should be more local stops than Ülemiste, Rapla and Pärnu alone. In any case, more! I believe that the Riigikogu must also be consulted here to see how the Riigikogu sees this matter. But yes, we certainly don't have that phase today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U45	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I heard you mention in one response that the Rail Baltic Railway will be completed either 2024 or 2026 or 2029 and that you do not see the problem of time in general. But my question is this: can delays jeopardise the financing of Rail Baltic? If we know that most of the money comes from the single currency of the European Union, then suddenly everyone can be turned around.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U47	Thank you. First of all, of course, the more we can take advantage of the money of this period, the better. Here, too, we must be quick. We can't say it's 2020 and let's not make any more effort. On the contrary, I know that Estonia is doing everything today to find extra euros in this period, plus millions to contribute to the completion of the Rail Baltic project. I have not said that Rail Baltic will be finished in one year, two years or three years. These years have been spoken of. But in that sense, the place of concern you spoke of is, of course, entirely there. Are we being completely turned around? No, I don't think so. But I think it's wise for us to act as fast as we can today. Of course, we cannot make over-the-counter decisions, but it is worth acting as quickly as possible, which was also what I said to Mr Jaanson, that, above all, the governance scheme is starting to slow down our activities a little bit, not only in the next period but also in this period of funding. To say today, on 9 March 2020, in which date exactly this major project, the international investment project, will be completed, it will not be quite difficult, because there are more than one variables. But yes, I also said in my inquiry that we are working to get Rail Baltic ready for the deadline.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U48	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U49	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Whether it is the most important infrastructure project or one of the most important infrastructure projects, such a thing can actually be realised only if the whole government is working together on this. There is no doubt that MKM, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Finance must contribute to realising the project on this scale. Officially, maintenance costs have been estimated at around EUR 10 million, while Martin Helme has said in his interview that, well, it costs at least EUR 50 million. And when he had asked where the extra money would be taken, he had received the answer that the facilities would be shut down and the subsidies would be tightened, the ferry ticket to Saaremaa would be more expensive, the train ticket would be more expensive, the bus ticket would be more expensive, the county bus routes would be reduced, even more rescue troops would be tightened, fewer policemen would be left on the streets. Can you tell us what the forecast for maintenance costs is and has the Minister of Finance changed his position compared to his previous interview, and yet Rail Balticus sees an important project in which he must also contribute to making it work?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U50	Thank you. Yeah, well, you're using the quotes of a politician here cleverly, you read the answers, but you don't specify when they're given. But I haven't been given a chance to question you again. Of course I'll answer you. First of all, I would like to say that Finance Minister Martin Helme is certainly working in the interests of the government's common goals, just as I and Fatherland will do. After all, there have been different political desires and principles before the coalition agreement was concluded, and there is nothing wrong with that, on the contrary, it is good that there are different views of the world and that they are trying to put together coalitions. Today this coalition is a good coalition, a very good coalition is born. I believe you agree with me. The question now is who is working how and to what extent to get Rail Baltic ready. Like I said, I think everyone's working for it. I don't see anyone wearing a leg right now. But I will say once again that if the principles of funding change, then we need to think seriously about what we are going to do next. What are the maintenance costs? Yeah, I know that 10 million stories too, more than a year and a half ago I was told it was about 10 million. Those sums are always going to be more specific. By the way, your own group has made an inquiry. I don't know why you didn't put this issue of maintenance costs in it. It would have been very interesting to discuss it here on the basis of the latest data. You yourself have signed this inquiry. But basically, something comes back from the rail fare, depending on how many railways will use it. Above all, I am thinking, of course, of freight transport and freight trains. Let's hope there's as many of them as possible. This is now the question I answered: whether we can get this project under joint management after RB has been completed or not. This, in my opinion, is extremely important for smooth rail traffic. In conclusion, I would like to say that, in the case of such infrastructure and common infrastructure projects, we always see subsidies, almost every time we make such large public investments. All right, I don't know, the connection to the big islands, there's a subsidy, there's a subsidy in terms of the ticket price. So if the question is whether it's going to be exactly zero or not, then this economic model is going to be updated all the time. If you ask questions about this or you have a question, I can update this information here and ask you to send it to see how it is with these maintenance costs. You know, I will if you promise not to protest. I am asking that these maintenance accounts be sent to you as of March 2020, and if you will allow me, I will also be placed on the CC-line.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U51	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U52	Prime Minister! I'm so glad you're allowing me to send you the data. You recently also sent me data on the construction stages I asked specifically. There was a table, but it was so brief and very little detail. I'd like to get this data in more detail, maybe you can answer me right now. The response that you have sent will reinforce the doubt that the funds for the current financial period will not be used because the gap is very high. I specifically looked at this year and there is nothing more to read here than the fact that there are 20 million worth of construction. Here it is much talked about in Saustinõmme viaduct, then one crossroads and, in addition, one or two hard to read out of the ecoduct. That's it, that's it! I understand we have 165 million to spend. Can you tell me what constructions are planned this year besides what I called them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U53	It's been a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U54	And it's not too fast, is it? The pace of construction.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U55	Thank you. Once again, I must tell Mr Sõerdi that we fully agree with you when we talk about the pace of construction. I, too, would like us to be much more ambitious in terms of speed, so on this point I fully agree with you. I really may not have told my good colleagues that it is not worth sending such general principles to Aivar Sõerd, a member of the Riigikogu, but that you should be sent details, because you have always been very detailed, especially in financial matters. I ask that the level of detail be raised considerably and that all the information that the country has today about the money to be spent in 2020 be communicated to you as soon as possible. So I apologize to you if this information has not been detailed enough. If you ask me if I can tell you exactly where the money is going in 2020 today, let me review my latest data for a second, and the detailed information will be provided to you as soon as possible. So I will take this criticism into account, as regards what you said, that the data was not detailed enough. Perhaps it was my fault too, because I did not tell the officials that there was no need to communicate general principles here, but Mr Sõerd always wants a very detailed matter. It's the right approach, and that's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U56	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U57	Good President! Good Prime Minister! I take a train every week between Tallinn and Narva and I am very happy that the train traffic has gone 20 minutes faster in a year. I'm a little worried about the people of Pärnu, because a few years ago, there was talk about upgrading the track between Lelle and Pärnu, which would have speeded up the traffic. It was claimed to cost 17 million. At the same time, it was decided to put money into the construction of Pärnu airport. But now Pärnu doesn't have much air traffic to think about, nor does it have a fast train. They have to wait another ten years. What is your position on this matter? All right, Pärnu, what about your position on Tartu, Narva and other directions? What is the government planning to do so that we can move faster? This is very important, as you know very well, and 10 minutes is also a big win in time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U58	Thank you for your question. True, it was the coalition of the Social Democratic Party, the then IRL and the Centre Party, who decided that Lelle was to be closed now and that there was no point in investing in this railway at the moment. Indeed, there must have been a drop in speed of less than 60 km/h, if not more. And indeed, the construction of Pärnu airport was the wish of the coalition at the time to enter into the contract. If I am not mistaken, it was about EUR 20 million. As far as I am concerned, this money has not yet been fully realised; there may also have been disputes about close quarters, well, about land and this construction. But I do believe that if this money is realised at one point, it will help Pärnu as a tourist area. The other half of your question. You asked about the railway connection between Tallinn and Tartu and other sections: what is the plan here? The government has had a concrete plan. It must be acknowledged that, unfortunately, there are not many of these examples. If we look at the last 30 years, we can see that these extra miles have come to the railways extremely few. Must have been Koidula. I remember the Koidula border crossing, and then I remember the Rice FamilyTurba. It was great when it got open, about six kilometers. There were a lot of people in the peat who said they hadn't, I don't know, seen a passenger train for 25 years. So I think it was the right move to take it to Turba. And if you ask what happens next, the plan is to move forward towards Rohuküla, restore train traffic on the Tallinn-Hapsalu route and go from there to Rohuküla. This is also very important for Hiiumaa, so I support it. Now that you are asking about Tallinn and Tallinn, about what the government has wanted to do about them, the government has wanted and will certainly do so by increasing the speed of passenger trains as much as possible. The second big issue, in my opinion, concerns the environment. For example, I am asking myself more and more, and I thank the Minister for the Environment, Rene Kokka, who is standing very hard for this, so why can't we decide that we are taking a certain part of the train traffic to hydrogen technology? Well, we've decided that train traffic should be electrified, but I would consider hydrogen technology. I have met Estonian entrepreneurs and they have said that transferring certain millions of trains to Elron provides an opportunity to transfer these trains to hydrogen. So given the dimension of the environment and Estonia's own capabilities, I would consider this possibility very seriously. If you ask us what plans we have, I'll tell you this is one plan. I'm sure it's a plan. On the one hand, we have said that we need to electrify, but on the other, I would say that perhaps we should go a step further and choose hydrogen technology. Let's go. The government has decided to buy six new trains. I may be wrong, but I think we have 38 trains or something now, and it is planned to buy six more trains in that park in the next few years. As you yourself pointed out, some of them will be used between Tallinn and Tartu or Tallinn. These are the main directions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U59	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U60	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I, too, am a railway believer and travel very often between Viljandi and Tallinn by train, so my ear is resting when you speak so tenderly and caringly about train traffic. But when I listened to this debate on Rail Baltic, I had this question sitting in this Chamber. Maybe everyone knows that, but I don't know, and maybe some spectators don't. If, now, the funding ratio changes and a different percentage is envisaged, then what happens next must be considered. And if it should be decided that this railway cannot be built because the costs to the state are too high, what does this mean for the Estonian state? You can also answer me in writing if you do not know the answer now. You don't have to ask me if I'm very offended when you answer in writing. You can also answer in writing. What does this mean for Estonia in terms of the funds already used? In that case, do you have to pay them back? Or if the change comes from the European Union, will everything remain the way it is? What does it mean if there are such doubts and there is not a common position between the parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U61	Thank you. I am Nõmme's boy, and maybe that's what you said, love and tenderness for train traffic, because Nõmme's always had this connection from the Peace Mountain, Hiiumaa or Nõmme to the Baltic Station. Now, what can a change in funding mean? That's a good question. In principle, the European Commission has also been one party to the documents, and we have also said that the principle of funding should remain similar. In fact, this is a very legitimate issue and a legal analysis is needed here. The easiest answer is that changing funding will lead to new negotiations with the European Commission. If the funding is changed, does this mean that you have a legitimate question that tram traffic within Tallinn or from the city centre to the airport will have to be paid or not to be paid? Must Saustinõmme be paid for or not? This certainly means some new negotiations on a completely new platform. But Estonia is not working for this at the moment. Estonia is working to make this connection complete. If you ask whether such a deep-legal analysis has been carried out, no doubt it has been done. If you like, I can ask you to put this bureaucratic machine to work, but it will probably cost something. But if a member of the Riigikogu asks, it can be done and sent to you nicely. So let me know if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U62	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U63	Dear Chairman, Good Prime Minister! You certainly know that 150 years will pass in the autumn of this year from the moment the Baltic railway was opened, which in fact laid the foundations for Estonia today in many ways and contributed to the Estonians becoming a city nation at all. In order for the Estonian state to survive, it is important that at a critical moment the troops of our allies reach Estonia quickly. And here's the question: how much has Rail Baltic been taken into account in planning the military needs and is it planned to apply for support for Rail Baltic from the planned military mobility budget of the European Union? What is the state of play of the EU budget negotiations in relation to the budget for military mobility? Will this amount finally reach the budget plan and what will it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U64	Thank you. Mr. Juske, I'm certainly not competing with you in history. I always listen with great interest to what you say and try to store it. I think you're very active on Facebook too, so I appreciate it anyway. Now about this military mobility: has that been taken into account? Yeah, it's accounted for. Is there a financial cost? Yes, the initial forecasts take into account that Estonia could also receive a certain financial contribution from it. I mean the 213 kilometers. If you ask how much Estonia could get, then this amount is currently rather modest, it could be, I don't know, in the order of 30 million seven years. If you ask what is the state of military mobility in the European Union budget today, the short answer is that this budget has not been agreed, so it is not in any position. If this is to be clarified a little bit, and I am certainly prepared to do so, then, well, at the last Council meeting, there were different proposals on the table. What was done? How do we agree on this budget? Well, there were also proposals that no longer provided for military mobility. So that's what it's like right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U65	Thank you. As each member of the Riigikogu had one question, Aivar Sõerd loses the other and there are no more questions for the Prime Minister. If there is a wish, it is now possible to open negotiations. But I don't think that's what you want. Thank you! Let's stop asking questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U66	The next item is the inquiry into the Institute of Estonian Language submitted on 27 January by the members of the Riigikogu, Heidy Purga, Erkki Keldo, Aivar Sõerdi, Vilja Toomasti, Annely Akkermanni, Signe Riisalo, Urmas Kruuse, Toomas Kivimägi, Yoko Alenderi, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Liina Kersna. I would like to ask for the representative of the speakers of the speaker here, Heidy Purga, a member of the Riigikogu, to be answered later by the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U67	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, on 27 January, we presented an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps, with 11 reform parties, about the reorganisations taking place at the Institute of the Estonian Language. There is no doubt that circumstances have changed in the meantime, but we are still waiting for the answers to our questions from Mailis Reps. For example, what operational activities is the Ministry of Education and Research planning to transfer to the language office that will be set up? Secondly, what can be separated from the Institute of Estonian Language if all implementation activities, such as the development of dictionaries and other language applications, are based on research carried out at the Institute of Estonian Language? Thirdly, what is being done wrong at the Estonian Language Institute, so that the existing one needs to be restructured? Fourthly, how will these changes contribute to strengthening the position of the Estonian language? Fifthly, which current budget costs will form the budget for the new language agency to be created? Sixthly, is there a reduction in the budget of the Institute of the Estonian Language? And seventhly, what added value does the official reorganisation of the Estonian language bring?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U68	Thank you. Here's the speech chair, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U69	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Indeed, in the meantime, some things have been clarified, but I will answer what you asked. First of all, in answer to the first question, we could go back to defining the task of the Language Board. On 16 January a meeting of the Office of the Government of the Republic took place and an overview was made of the audit commissioned by the Ministry of Finance, the opinion of the joint expert of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Finance has been taken over to review the reorganisations and the positions of the Ministry's experts. After the discussions, it was decided jointly that the creation of the Language Board was justified in place of the Language Inspectorate. Of course, this means that it is necessary to continue to know how the Riigikogu feels about it. It was specifically emphasised that the Institute of the Estonian Language will remain independent and in its role. In addition to the Language Inspectorate, the language scholarships and recognition events of Archimedes Foundation, as well as current activities of an applied nature from the Ministry's Language Department, will move to the Language Board. I can tell you that there are some agreements and other routine activities that are very necessary every year, but they are not policy-making. There is certainly nothing going beyond the role of the Language Institute to date. The draft does not mention the tasks of the Language Board, which are currently the tasks of the EKI. A number of activities, which are set out in the EKI Statute, are in similar terms in the future Statute of the Language Board. Once again, they are not of a dubious nature and there is no plan to take over EKI's tasks. These are tasks that are more widely addressed. For example, supporting the learning of Estonian as a second language or the digital development of the Estonian language or the development of public language services, the image of the Estonian language, the implementation of programmes and projects. So the activities that are currently in the E.K.I. are not being carried over, but are all having their own characteristics. The second question is what can be separated from the EKI. HTM currently does not intend to separate activities from the EKI, so the simple answer to this question is not planned. Thirdly, what is wrong with the Estonian Language Institute? Once again, on the contrary, we are very pleased with the EKI. The social discussions were very broad in 2014 and 2015; I believe that they are quite lively, and when a coalition was formed in 2016, EKI, or the Estonian Language Institute, was discussed separately, because at the time the discussion was very lively. I therefore stress some important facts. We've brought additional resources to the EKI. We have also tried to support the various activities of the EKI, which are vital for Estonia, but perhaps have been left a little sidelined in terms of funding so far. And I'll bring up some facts that maybe everyone doesn't know. The Estonian Language Institute employs 75 people, so EKI is a remarkable institution in our area of administration; it cannot be considered very small in any way. I'll tell you, in comparison, 19 people work at the Language Inspectorate. The tasks have been discussed several times, meetings have been held with both the Director of the Institute of the Estonian Language and, of course, with the people of the Language Inspectorate. We have been discussing precisely the key to ensuring the most optimal future action for everyone. If the wording were to be clarified here, the EKI would say that the Ministry of Education and Research continues to be the R &amp; D institution of the state, its tasks are to preserve and develop the Estonian language with the aim of ensuring the preservation of Estonian nation and culture throughout the ages. EKI also performs the functions of the central language institution of the state and is responsible for the activities necessary to ensure the sustainability of the Estonian language and to develop terminology in Estonian. Question four. The creation of a language agency will create two implementing bodies in the field. The Institute of Estonian Language can focus more on its core business, because we hope that this will also mean additional attention in the key to additional resources, because it is important for us to strengthen the positions of Estonian language primarily through research and development. In recent months, you have certainly heard discussions in society on national and humanities, as well as language sciences. The Language Board will continue to monitor, but as discussions in the Riigikogu and also in the Government Office of the Republic have so far shown, there is a expectation that it will have a significantly greater advisory role, i.e. it will not only go to punish but will thus increase the assisting, advisory and supervising role. Together with the latter, the number and scope of activities of the institution will certainly be diversified, and this will in turn strengthen the position of the Estonian language in the Estonian country. What are the budgetary costs? The budget of the Language Board consists of the budget of the Language Inspectorate as well as the budgets associated with the tasks added to Archimedes and the Ministry. The budget of the Institute of Estonian Language has not decreased at all, but has increased significantly, on the contrary. While the EKI budget was 1.6 million in 2017, it was 1.7 million in 2018 and 2.1 million in 2019. Significantly, we have also contributed to wage increases, but there are still a number of programmes that were in a very critical state. In addition, we have developed infrastructure and are also developing a house on Roosikrantsi street. Those who are more familiar with this area know that a large part of EKI's activities requires very good internet access, but the state of the servers was still very modest. So we started with the digital environment, connections and a critical electrical wiring, and now we are going to have more extensive repairs. So these debates over EKI's existence have been confirmed, we have also invested heavily in it. Value added. The official reorganisation in the field of Estonian language has two very important objectives. One is the status and reputation of the Estonian language, the other is the infrastructure of the Estonian language. We also come to discussing the Estonian language strategy in this Chamber and I assure you that there will be a third major part. Of course, much has been said about language learning, but it is precisely the reputation and position of the Estonian language in society that means not only control but also general good attitude and guidance, strengthening language learning. Under the Estonian language infrastructure, there are also a great many such topics of language technology and Estonian digital language, which are extremely important because the movement is taking place at a very rapid pace in this area. And the proposed step is also clearer in terms of the division of roles, because we need to be responsible. In turn, the National Audit Office has said that the Ministry of Education and Research needs to significantly increase its role and responsibility in relation to the Estonian language and its position. That is certainly what we are doing with these reorganisations, in cooperation with our good partners from other ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U70	Thank you. Good Minister, there are questions for you, and the first of them is Heidy Purga. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U71	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! In the recent meeting of the Committee on Culture, we listened to the views of the representative of the Estonian Language Institute and the Head of the Language Board to be established. By the way, it was very nice to see that they had already taken a proactive approach to meaningful cooperation. Although there were few emotions, in terms of the distribution of content, that who had more precise tasks, but the question or lack of knowledge was more about the Language Board, especially about the additional people and other resources needed. Can you specify how many specialists or professionals are needed and what additional resources have been discussed so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U72	Thank you for a very good question. I'm sure Kristi Mikiver, the coordinator between our two ministries, would be able to talk about numbers right now, but I assure you that there are almost a thousand people in our administration. I believe that we do not have a shortage of resources in terms of people and resources at the moment. Now the question is how these resources are distributed. I believe that this area of administration has become quite ambitious. The Ministry of Education and Research is prepared. I believe there are months ahead, let's say, time for change. That's what we all understand. Archimedes is coming over certain programs. People may not be so familiar with each other. Of course, language people know almost everyone; it is such an area of relatively good knowledge of each other, but still. People have such very fundamental work questions, such as how the rooms that are going to be renovated, on which someone will be on the floor, etc. will be ready. I have to tell you, unfortunately, that we do not yet see all the details. But knowing the leadership of both institutions, both the Language Inspectorate and the Institute of the Estonian Language, and knowing the understanding they want to create, I believe that there is not so much a need for some "top-down" management as for trust in these people. The resources of the Language Board must also be reviewed on the side of the ministries, i.e. what we organise ourselves and what we hand over to the Agency. Because the profession, however, is a rather high-ranking institution. We now know that five languages run by the Ministry. What form and how we would like to hand over some tasks, this must be discussed in turn and we do not have a final answer here. Now there are discussions between ministries, but does anyone in any ministry still want to hand over any tasks to the Language Board, how resources move and other nuances do not yet know what to say? Are we prepared to move people with money? Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U73	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Actually, Heidy Purga already touched on this question here a little bit, but I'd like to continue with that. Do you see that there is a need for two separate institutions, which are, in principle, still, as I understand it, responsible for more or less the same things? Will you, to some extent, start firing the people of the Estonian Language Institute in order to compensate for all of this, or will all of these people still be needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U75	According to the information I know, there is no need for such a serious reorganisation of the Estonian Language Institute at the moment. The inspection is already a national R &amp; D institution. The Language Board grows out of the Language Inspectorate and is given additional competences, such as counselling, etc. I don't have any other information today. These meetings, which have now taken place between the Language Inspectorate and the Ministry of Education and Research and the Institute of the Estonian Language, have in no way altered the view that the Institute of Estonian Language as a research and development institution will remain in its role and status.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U76	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U77	Honourable speaker! Good minister! It is clear that the creation of the Language Board created very well-founded fears and questions about the future of the Institute of the Estonian Language. At first, the question was whether the Institute of the Estonian Language would remain, and if the Government confirmed that it would remain, what exactly will the functions and budget of the Institute of the Estonian Language be. That's my question. What is the budget of the Institute of Estonian Language for next year? And if you go more specific, the Institute of Estonian Language is in many ways a technology institution that, for example, manages and compiles web dictionaries. Are and what investments the government plans to increase and improve the IT capabilities of the Estonian Language Institute?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U78	Thank you, good questioner! I'm afraid I don't have exact numbers here. As far as I know, during this summer, some major investments have been planned, but I don't want to tell you the amount by heart, I might be wrong. There have also been costs, for example, of servers and electricity, etc. over the last two years. I will present a more detailed overview either in writing or when we are officially establishing the Language Board. When we come to the Riigikogu, I will try to make these sums of money. They were not among the questions at the moment. Yes, investments are planned in such a way that the direction is towards a digital and technological community, but also more broadly. Since five or six years around the Institute of the Estonian Language have been like this, say, very vague, then perhaps the sanitary conditions there might also need to be improved. Even though it is a very nice house on Roosikrantsi Street, everyone still says that there is a need for certain investments. However, they have indeed been delayed for several years. So that's the plan right now. If you mean human resources, we will, of course, try to catch up with wage increases at a cautious pace where expectations are. But yes, if we look at next year's RES, I can comment on that. I have with me the figure that this year it will be 2.1 million, but the exact amount of next year will be in the course of the country's budgetary strategy and budgetary procedure. It's more like the numbers have grown so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U79	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have to admit that I did not have any plans to ask you a question today, but I had this wish about an hour ago when a very angry employee of a company called me, who announced that Saku Beer Factory sent them a request for all the bills in English and asked what it meant. As far as I know, the language law in force in Estonia aims to preserve and protect the Estonian language and to ensure that it is used as the main language in normal life. In addition, there is a section of the Language Act that requires responsibility, i.e. 33, violation of the obligation to use the Estonian language. It seems to me that this is not just a single business problem, but a general one. The question is: what are you going to do on the basis of the information you have now heard?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U81	Thank you. I'm supposed to do the law then, so I'd dare to quote the paragraphs equally with you. But we have very strictly regulated language requirements in public spaces and services. I say again that I don't want to be wrong and I should do the law, but somehow I suspect that there might be some other basis for this when it comes to Carlsberg Group and the interaction between these domestic or private companies at the level of accountants. I cannot comment on whether we have regulated it in the Riigikogu. But I will take the question along, and I am sure that the Head of the Language Inspectorate, Mr Tomusk, will be able to react immediately and say whether it falls under regulation or not. And if they do, they'll act accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U82	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This week, members of the Riigikogu are expected to propose a development plan for the Estonian language sector 2021-2035. The introduction highlights that the Ministry of Education and Research is involved in the development of the language area as the principal Ministry of Language Affairs, on the basis of expert advice and proposals from the Language Council and the authorities responsible for language development. But the specific institutions we are talking about today, and there are quite a few of them not mentioned. Is it aware of how many changes are really taking place? Maybe you could be more specific. And then you mentioned in your presentation that the language institute should be dealt with, or was it the Language Board? The Estonian language also has a reputation. What are the major problems with the reputation of the Estonian language today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U84	First of all, if the introduction does not list all our good partners, i.e. if there are no, say, a complete or incomplete list, please do not read that the Institute of Estonian Language is not dignified. On the contrary. Of course, universities are also good partners, and we also have some very good language people who are working in associations. Among those who have made a serious contribution to this strategy are the few slightly emerited linguists, who have simply come to the aid of very, very good advice on some of the wordings, simply out of professional interest. So I guess it's pretty standard that we're not naming everyone, but let's say it in general. If the members of the Riigikogu feel that there should be a full list of partnerships, we will pay special attention to this. But there has not been any attempt to ignore R &amp; D institutions as sub-offices in our country. Now I wonder what the second question was. Oh, reputation, reputation. If you follow the language discussions, for example, about the issue of the Wiedemann Prize or the recognition of the work of the language, there has also been a discussion in this hall, for example, during the previous Riigikogu, as a matter of national importance, a very big emphasis is to begin with the fact that we should be prouder ourselves using our correct Estonian language. This imagery can mean a variety of fun language events, word-making, partnership grants for nice traditions, starting with the Wiedemann Prize, as I have already said, and ending with a number of other events. This also means paying attention to bottlenecks. For example, the Language Inspectorate sometimes provides sad examples of humor at some events that need to be addressed. But image design in a broader sense means that we all pay attention to the language together. Should we be generally concerned? Fortunately, the Estonian language is concerned about everything. But the language people rather say that the life force of the Estonian language is, in a rapidly changing world of language technology, something that needs special attention and avoids it right now. The interest of all of us is that self-propelled cars, crats or any other changes in the future would use Estonian as it is now among the 30 most digitised languages. We're all working to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U85	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U86	Good President! Dear Minister, Please try to dispel my fear and doubt. The Language Inspectorate disappears, the name of the institution disappears, the Language Board emerges. Do the work and activities of the Language Inspectorate disappear after the name? Because the activities of the Language Institute will be transferred to the new Language Board. Maybe that means changing the foundations of our language policy. Are there no future activities of the Language Inspectorate such as these?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U87	Thank you. I understand you have college experience. So I'm quoting my logic faculty in response. Ene Grauber used to say that if you ask the question the opposite way, the answer remains the same. No, the activities are not transferred from the Estonian Language Institute. Now, speaking of the Language Inspectorate, this is the first time anyone is worried that he will be in office at the Institute. The agency has a little bit more ambition in the legal sense. But the role of inspection is not lost in terms of inspection, I assure you that. In the coming weeks, the Riigikogu will also have a real draft. I believe from this bill you will see that the inspection is there in every way and completely. In addition to inspections, which are generally punishable as punishment, there is also such a more positive one, in favour of counseling. Since you know the Ida-Virumaa region well, I'm sure you've heard that a lot of entrepreneurs say that if, instead of someone coming to fine, you'd have to say, listen, I have such wonderful thoughts about how you can solve problems together, maybe this first reception would be a little more encouraging. If we give the inspection this opportunity now in the form of an agency, I believe that perhaps a number of decisions will be settled before the fine is passed, but of course all the fine measures will remain, and you will certainly see this in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U88	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will go somewhat wider with my question than this question involves. Last week was a very interesting opportunity to visit the Estonian House in Helsinki, where the teaching of the Estonian language to students of Estonian families living there, children as well as adults, as well as Finns, is very seriously and very effective. Do you have issues such as teaching the Estonian language outside Estonia and giving it more money for purely practical reasons, as the number of students is increasing, etc., on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U90	Thank you. Excellent question! I believe you've met the very first instigators of World School. This initiative came from the same place in Helsinki. And fortunately, you can still travel to Helsinki. I see you've had a positive experience in that sense. Great people, really, they started this school because they saw there was a need. Now it's more traditional. Every year, if they have the slightest capacity to expand this World School, the Ministry of Education and Research has been very supportive. Every year, when we make a budget, our management asks separately if we can get more teachers there and whether it can be extended. But we also need to understand that this school started on its own initiative. There's no power for very big jumps, we're doing half-jumps, but change has been insane. For the people who started there, a deep bow. Fantastic! Now the question is, is there anything else besides this World School platform? I don't know what's going to happen now in this outbreak, but we do know that Estonians are now in very many parts of the world and the World School is reaching them all. Teachers are also part of several places in Estonia, some are in Finland, but they are also elsewhere. So this is the platform we are really very supportive of. The broader question, however, is the teaching of Estonian in other parts of the world. To this end, there are new and new applications every year, which will be examined under the programme. These amounts are not very high, from 3000 to 10000, mainly in universities. Every year, we raise at least a few new centres in universities and support groups. But yes, the subject runs between the two ministries. Riina Solman has dealt very strongly with this issue in relation to the population, people living outside Estonia and the diaspora, but the Ministry of Education and Research also has a major role to play through programmes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U91	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U92	Honourable manager! Honourable Minister! You answered Signe Kivi's question about the reputation of the Estonian language, that this reputation depends very much on the correct knowledge and use of the Estonian language. I agree with this one hundred percent and also agree that our correct and perfect Estonian still needs some serious work to make it better. In the history of Estonia, one very large language innovation and the campaign to speak a better language has been linked to the name of Johannes Aavik, and President Ilves also launched his campaign to improve the language. Doesn't the government have any bigger plan in mind to continue to deal with this issue, i.e. not just to admit that you see it is a problem if you do not speak the perfect Estonian language. Once again, one hundred percent agree. But in fact, we all need to learn this language and improve its use.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U93	Thank you. Its hopeful name is the Estonian language strategy. Whether he will now be a sectoral strategy, a strategy in the field of Estonian language, we will see it again under the leadership of the Committee on Culture. But contributing to this strategy is very broad. Not only is the Ministry of Education and Research, but the whole wider linguistic community, the university people, the scientific advisors of very many ministries. Because this is not only about the correct Estonian language and language technology, which is certainly a topic close to the heart and very important for many of us, but also about the scientific language, for example, so that we have different sectoral terms to develop and we do not simply take over English terms. There are a lot of questions in the translation work about how we can digitally assemble a terminological base, for example. The quality of all translation, including machine translation, would probably increase, terminologically. So there are a lot of nuances where we have to work with a systemically and quite powerful resource, otherwise this pace will remain, say, too slow in terms of normal development. So it's all about reputation and infrastructure. I hope that if we discuss the strategy more broadly here, these nuances will also become more clear and, of course, the correct language will improve. The people of Estonia are very attentive, for example, to the 'Radio Ear' programmes or to some language comment programmes, very widely sending their opinions-references, with the precision of a second, where some things fell into the ear. In this sense, we always have cause for concern, but let us say that the Estonian language is very viable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U94	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate, so the answer to the second question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U95	We can move on to the third inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Johannes Kert, Valdo Randpere, Andrus Seed, Erkki Keldo, Urve Tiidus, Ants Laaneots, Kalle Laanet, Andres Sutt, Annely Akkermann, Hele Everaus, Yoko Alender, Kristen Michal, Maris Lauri, Urmas Kruuse, Kaja Kallas, Marko Mihkelson, Hanno Pevkur, Jüri Jaanson, Heiki Kranich, Madis Milling, Eerik-Niles Kross, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Signe Kivi, Signe Riisalo, Heidy Purga and Jürgen Ligi on 12 February 2020 about preventing the import or influence of the ideology of the Russian Federation in Estonia. The inquiry has been submitted to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Member of the Riigikogu Johannes Kert!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We certainly have reason to be proud of our schoolchildren, who have achieved glorious results in international competitions. At the same time, there have been some signals from schools that do not please us. I've been here for years preparing national defence teachers and putting them into schools. One day one of them called me and said you know what happened. I had a prepared class, we had to talk about the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, NATO, and why Estonia is a member of NATO, but half the class boys stood up and left the class. It was explained: "But our history teacher has said something different. " It was the moment I started to take an interest in it. We have also discussed this topic at the joint meeting of the Committee on Culture and Defence at the end of the previous Riigikogu and the teaching of history has also been discussed in this composition in the Committee on Culture. However, the main point may be that the historical narrative of the Russian Federation and what we and our European partners consider to be historic do not fall together. In a situation where our teachers attend refresher courses organised in the Russian Federation, both the import of educational materials and the import of certain attitudes take place. The Defence Police are aware of the participation in these further trainings and have confirmed that teachers are being ideologically biased in training and that the real aim of Russia is to influence young people through teachers and educational materials. We are raising a new generation, and it is very important that this generation grows together, not by carrying out conflicting knowledge, conflicting values. If we allow a neighbouring country that generates a hybrid war for a long time and systematically does nothing to solve our school and problem, the integration of the foreign language population living in Estonia into Estonian society will be difficult if not very difficult. Here comes my question. How do we train and supplement our teachers, how we control their knowledge, and whether we are satisfied with what our schoolchildren acquire in this area? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U97	Thank you. I ask for an inquiry to be answered by the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Repsi.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'm trying to answer your questions. First of all, how many history teachers have, according to your records, visited the continuing training of history teachers? Perhaps the most important thing to start with is that the state really trusts its teachers, just as the heirs pointed out in the introduction. This is confirmed not only by the good results of our children, but also by the knowledge that our teachers are doing an excellent job and that our school leaders and our teaching materials are also very good. So let's say we're generally satisfied with our education. Nor does the Ministry of Education and Research control anyone's convictions. People are entitled to their opinions, but we all understand that the teaching profession requires a study programme, including new teaching materials. In recent years, there has also been a great deal of emphasis on digital learning materials that are available free of charge to everyone in the Opiq environment. And there, too, we are constantly trying to get all the publishers, in cooperation with the publishers, some small producers are not there yet. I'll start with what your questions are about, or what about the teaching materials. In addition to the paper textbooks, there are digital learning tools and there is additional material that can be analysed independently, as well as various tests and developmental surveys. So there must be some help for the teacher. In addition, there are textbooks in the school bag. Teachers, both legally and in general, develop their professional skills well and do so in the form of further training. According to EHIS, we have 23 schools with Russian teaching languages and employ a total of 56 teachers who teach history. Of these, 91% have participated in continuing education and training in Estonia in the years 2016 to 2019. CVT data do not state the country, but they say whether the training has taken place in Estonia or abroad and the entry has been in Estonia. Five historical teachers have visited Russia by the name of training courses and trainers, one of the courses held in Russia during the years 2016 to 2019, has been on the subject of history. So five teachers have gone to Russia, one of them training on history. The security risks affecting the country and society, as discussed in this introduction, are not directly addressed by the Ministry of Education and Research. Other agencies deal with these security risks, mainly the Defence Police Department. They also report to the Ministry of Education and Research, i.e. those who are entitled to read this information, to the extent necessary. I don't think we're going to quote these things from each other here, but no such wide-ranging subject has emerged from the training of this one teacher in this range either. Question two. How much textbooks are used in Russian-speaking schools in Russia? Perhaps I would like to say once again about textbooks as an introduction to the fact that we have textbooks corresponding to the national curriculum, these are in the register from which the school can choose textbooks-learning tools. What is chosen from among those in the register, according to the curriculum, is the free choice of the school and the teacher. There are really requirements for teaching literature and its review, one of which corresponds to the curriculum, but there are other requirements, such as those that depend on the student's age and others. In the case of textbooks, the obligation to provide the material digitally applies not only to paper textbooks from 2014. A special impetus for the use of digital textbooks has certainly been the enlarged programme in the last two years, where we have given everyone free access. And really we see a significant increase in the use of digital learning tools in these 23 Russian-language schools because they go there to get acquainted and when they understand its meaning, they start to use it. If anyone else uses additional material from time to time in a school library, the Ministry of Education and Research has no record of it. However, we have not had any complaints that any textbooks that are systematically used as a basic textbook in teaching were issued in Russia. Question three. With what measures do you direct teachers of Russian-speaking schools to give preference to continuing education in Estonia? Firstly, perhaps an important remark is that in-service training is generally free of charge, they are also available in different regions. And perhaps it is also important that we have directed specific training measures to Russian-language schools, such as the successful ESF programme, with an average of 10% of Russian-language courses or part of Russian-language courses. So really, they're trying to provide training. In addition, both the University of Tartu and Tallinn have organised further trainings in such a way that the course itself takes place in Estonian, but if the teacher needs additional support, for example in the form of educational material or some additional seminar, this possibility of further demonstration is also taken into account, so that teachers can still receive the information. Question four. With what measures do you direct a teacher to prefer textbooks approved in the Estonian state? I rushed ahead and said that one thing is that everything is free. Secondly, it is what the state, through the state budget, sends to local governments and the local government, in turn, sends to the school specially for the purchase of educational resources. There, the school really has to choose the textbooks and educational tools that correspond to the curriculum. They are issued in Estonia and meet the requirements regulated here. Next question. What specific activities are targeted at teachers in Russian-speaking schools in order to reduce ideological influence? I believe that, mainly through training, and indeed, separate efforts have been made to this end. This is an example of Narva College of the University of Tartu, and I would also like to express my congratulations on several trainings at the University of Tallinn, where some measures have just sought to create coherence with the rest of Estonian teachers. As I have already said, they are wanted for the same training, ready to explain a number of things, or to give more Russian-language material if necessary. So this coherence is one thing. Networks on topics of particular interest to different subject associations or teachers. Special training courses for inclusive education and special needs are particularly popular in recent years, where participants are indeed from both Estonian and Russian-speaking schools. Now prevention and such ideological influence. This is the department of the Defence Police, which, when there are concerns, informs the Ministry of Education and Research. Regionally, as I have already mentioned, there are Narva College and, for example, their pedagogical conference, where there have always been a huge number of participants, there are multilingual educational publications, as well as many networking development programmes. If we take the subject of history, then it will certainly be dealt with by the Society of History and Social Teachers. A number of professional topics are also addressed in universities. And perhaps on the NATO issue already mentioned here, one example is the social partner of the country, the Estonian NATO Association, who has organised several training courses that are necessary for this target group. Nor must our foreign embassies, whether British or American, be underestimated, nor have Norwegian programmes been targeted there. So there are a lot of positive teacher engagement events. Next question. Does the Ministry of Education have a regular accreditation mechanism that controls the competence of Estonian historical teachers, the competence and professional preparation of Estonian and European history? First of all, we have qualifications requirements for teachers, which are updated at a certain time. It has always been a very important social issue, which is the requirements for teachers. Compliance with the requirements is also assessed by the employer and in Estonia we usually analyse the results of the tests, such as the results of the level work, and when something is very clearly drawn out there, the external evaluators at Innoves, later at the educational office, show special attention. What does it mean to pay attention? When the results of the external evaluation are processed and it gives rise to the understanding that no area is understood, attention will be paid to this. We also have a development programme for local government education officials since autumn 2019 to strengthen the understanding of the educational system of the local government, as well as the subject associations that have already been mentioned. If you will allow me to sum up the matter again, I will say that it is certainly justified to pay particular attention to it. However, if we look at integration monitoring data, as of 2017 alone, strong state identity has increased significantly in the last two to three years and the number of people with very weak state identity has decreased to 14%. It is certainly important to note this too. Several other broader courses will also be organised, for example in cooperation with the International Centre for Defence Studies. In September, higher national defence courses of education leaders took place in Ida-Virumaa and there are many other steps to teach security, foreign policy and state identity, and teachers' participation has always been very high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U99	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U100	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I want to ask you about the teachers' training money. It has fallen, and it should now be a little less than 1%, but the need for further training to increase its competence is still very great for teachers. My question is this: how does your ministry regulate the subject-matter of teachers and why has the training money decreased?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U101	Thank you. It's not polite to sort in history, but still, this money didn't go down when I was a minister. The debate about this was quite lively in this hall at the time. Right now, it's 1%. The argument was that teacher training was very uneven and should be directed through universities as much as I remember this reduction discussion in this Chamber. But now, coming to the answer, we have two big platforms as partners. One is public procurement, where we are approaching certain issues, for example in the case of inclusive education, we did not just say to universities that please organise it, but we also asked others, because there are also very good specialists in civil society. So from procurement, let's say, such content procurement is organised by Innove. I don't even know all the nuances, but there'll be bigger partners out there who'll be training teachers. Universities have also been directly involved in such major training series. European funding goes hand in hand, ESF funds are significantly focused on continuing teacher training, of course public funding is also regularly used. The 1% that is allocated to schools can really be decided by the school itself. Here, too, it can be said that there are two kinds of wishes drawn out. Some are that a specialist wants a very specific course or a whole module that raises his or her qualifications. And then it depends on the size of the school, but often there are certain funds and directions. In addition, there are major trainings and clearly the most popular are all kinds of inclusions. Our children are different and teachers are asking for more and more opportunities to support different students in their classrooms. Thirdly, we look forward to the MFF for the next programming period. As I have already said, the ESF's resources in teacher training have been significant and we sincerely hope for help there. For the next programming period, the Ministry of Education and Research itself has put forward further training for all teachers as a clear priority. Since 2015, there has been a strong monitoring of coherence between schools. We are trying to keep the proportions and make sure that about 10% of teachers from Russian-speaking schools are involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U102	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We all want learning to be interesting, exciting, surprising, to create new coherence and to be urged to ask questions. We also know that teaching really does not take place only at school or in class, but is also collected elsewhere, for example in cultural institutions. Can't the Ministry of Education and Research treat museums operating in Estonia as partners? In recent years, all museums have diversified their educational programmes. And is it very utopian to think that in the near future we will arrive at the Estonian National Museum, the Estonian Art Museum and Vabamu, for example, free of charge for students and teachers? We could start organizing educational programs in them. I believe that this would lead to different trends in the history of young people, not only in their knowledge of history, but also in the knowledge of their teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U104	Thank you. A good questioner certainly knows that this is a matter close to my heart. At one time, the museum's study programs received a special impetus when we started a special program. Now you could call it a pilot programme, it was a two-year programme. Universities, museums and educators in a broader sense put it together. I assure you that all museums, whether they are county museums or larger, offer enormously exciting programs for different age groups. Funding is very different, in some places it is done by local governments, some museums have received some kind of programme money. As usual, we thank the European taxpayer, many European programmes have enabled free participation. The inclusion of museums is not utopia at all. I just don't want to go to another administration, but I know Tõnis Lukas likes that idea too. I also know that the debate in the cultural council has left the sound of such a social partnership. Well, I guess we'll just have to get specific and say what it means. The Riigikogu once planned to change the law and make sure that no money can be taken at the museum. It has not been implemented, but it is an interesting bill that has never entered into force as a law. Read the museum law, it's so surprising, but it's been written there for quite a while. I wholeheartedly support thinking together, and together we need to find a solution to how to organise it. It's not just the ticket. We actually want to keep museums and educational centres running. If we're gonna go there for free, maybe we should find some sort of compensation for the museum. It may not, however, hold this great support group, these enthusiasts, so it must be focused on educational programmes. KIK is currently implementing it through environmental education and directed, perhaps we should do something similar to museum education in some way. I don't really love these programs, everyone's tired of them, but basically it should be earmarked for that. The feedback from teachers and schools has always been one hundred percent supportive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U105	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U106	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that there will be no state examinations in history and social studies since 2014. The question is how the Ministry of Education and Research will assess the achievement of the learning outcomes of these curricula or that children will then learn history and gain knowledge of history, as is the case in the national curriculum, since we are talking about history and society in particular right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U107	To be precise, since I understand that the Society of Social and History Teachers has also been very active here, in this form, this 11-selection exam system has been lost many years ago in upper secondary school, but in primary school, the selection exam is still available. This is something that relatively few students choose, since most choose a foreign language for a comprehensive school final, but a certain number also do so. How do we judge? At present, such an evaluation works, which we call an external evaluation test, but as stated in Estonian, it is a level work. And the more we can sort out this "big data," the better. Our goal is that we can give the teacher more and more accurate information so that the teacher, in turn, can do something about it. It also provides information to the Ministry and decision-makers, policy-makers. The point is that we can go to child level, class level and school level. In that case, we'll see if there are whole blocks in some subject that aren't understood, if there's some kind of theme that you don't understand, if we get a signal about it. For example, it may be that there is a school with parallel classes, but in some classes the same substance has been handled differently. If we find out that this is, for example, a question concerning one teacher, then we are already going ahead with these basic data. In addition, feedback on social education and history also comes from associations and associations of subjects, as well as from Innove's expert, so that such a network still works, sometimes more actively, sometimes less. The reason why we want to do this through the state, the Ministry of Education and social partnerships is that, after the change of the Gambling Tax Council, the direction has been taken towards three-year-old large social partnership agreements, so that these associations can gain strength, to be a connection to such a network. There will certainly be feedback to the Ministry, too, if there are any signs of danger or, on the contrary, if there is an intention to change something in principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U108	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U109	Thank you. Good waitress, thank you for your answers. I have a question for further training. As the school is the most important designer of a child's and a person's value space alongside the home, I am sure glad to hear that 91% of teachers have completed training in Estonia. But please specify how large these trainings are and how many teachers have not attended at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U110	Well, I'm gonna have to do EHIS here, I don't wanna be wrong, or you'll find something else after the EHIS. This information is all publicly available on the website of the Ministry of Education and Research, but one part of the qualification requirements is that we constantly require teachers to complete further training. Until recently, it was mandatory if you wanted to increase your degree of accreditation, right now it's only if you want to get an invitation. It has also been said in this Chamber that the number of candidates is extremely modest. The reform of the accreditation system has certainly had an impact. If you had previously been assured that one hundred percent would participate because there was no other option, then now you can't confirm whether there is a teacher out there who will refrain from all the trainings. However, in general, teachers' interest is very, very high and very many in-school trainings are often brought to school by someone trainer who speaks on some important subject that has been agreed upon. Not all teachers may attend specific training in their subject area. If you mean whether all Estonian history teachers will attend the training organised by the history teachers' group, then certainly not. They're doing a little different specific work. But maybe I should ask people in the subject area if they've noticed that there's a teacher who somehow specifically wants to avoid getting information. So far, there has been more feedback all the time that the interest is even greater, but more meaningful training. Teachers are very critical of what is being offered. Feedback's strong. If the teacher is still dissatisfied with what is being offered to him, the teacher will say so, perhaps not immediately, but in a few days' time. Estonia is so small that it still comes out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U111	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U112	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, We know that a teacher at school with his mentality, just like a coach at sport, is still teaching and raising teenagers a and o. The teacher's mentality and the effects of approaches lay at the bottom and this is very important. But we also know that the average age of the Estonian faculty is over 50 years old; I do not know about teachers of history and society. We also know that the Defence Police have confirmed that teachers, as well as schools, are being influenced. And here's the question. The training is in progress, but mentality remains a mentality. How the teacher explains to students, for example, the case in Crimea or Georgia, as well as the follow-up of World War II, etc., is very important. At the same time, you claim that the defense police are not working very hard with you, you haven't had much contact. I ask you how you can still get an overview of whether in some schools students may be affected by such an impacted mentality.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U113	First of all, I insist that every time the defense police find that there is something they should say in our field, they say. Cooperation in this regard is very good. It's just that I may have stressed that the Ministry of Education and Research is not one of those ministries who go to regular conversations, rather than being invited. I was trying to put it this way that our communication isn't very close. So I'm suggesting that there's probably not as much concern as maybe a few years ago. I have the experience of a minister from different times, and there have been times when very often called out, and now it is more peaceful in that sense. I guess there are fewer moments of such concern or rapid response. The teacher's influence on the student is significant; there is no question about it. In the case of the curriculum of the Ministry of Education and Research, we can say that there are a number of topics that are required to be discussed and analysed. We're trying to give you a lesson. We are trying to provide additional material, including individual reading. But we're all connected to our history, and that's what we understand. I, too, have been in school since there was a very different story about what was at home. It didn't work. This must also be taken into account. So we can't just blame teachers. Even if they do certain seminars and discussions, we still have to admit that children are watching the news and watching what is happening. These families do not necessarily watch one or the other'mandatory television', but choices are made very widely, today there are several hundred channels. We have also discussed at different times in the government how to reach a particular target group, because ETV+ is not the main news channel for all. So I'd like to protect schools. They're going through the subjects, analyzing, using materials, etc., but how this discussion will develop in that class and how much we can measure the mind of one child or another, I can't say. It is certainly the same as you said that, for example, a coach who maybe says one sentence in the evening will sometimes notice much more of the child's differences and maybe be a much bigger ideal for him. Especially if there is a boy in practice and a coach is a remarkable male, perhaps one of the few men of authority in a child's life who says one sentence, it could put a teacher under the brunt of a multi-annual job. I say, though, the numbers speak their own language. Only five teachers and one of them in the field of history have attended field training. So we've come a long way, though. There's interest and alertness. When we look at all these documents that are public, we see that the interest of young people themselves in going to camps in Russia, such as youth camps, is rather modest. However, we are currently offering so many other opportunities here in Estonia and we have done a very good job.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U114	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. What is the Ministry of Education and Research going to do or has already done to motivate teachers in Russian schools to still prefer further training approved in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U116	Information, availability, so that they are also regionally accessible, as close as possible to the school. And here, as I have already mentioned, regional colleges are very important. Narva has done a very good job. Then we will also try to do some more systematic training in cooperation with universities, for example, on the ground. On the integration side, the Ministry of Culture has also offered more philosophical and broader topics where teachers have an interest in discussing, not so much training, but just such discussions. Perhaps another important aspect that I did not mention before is language learning. Especially now that these Estonian-language houses are largely focused, in the last four to five years, a large number of teachers have completed their training. It is clear that it is not just language training, because it uses good materials and has a great deal of conversation. It also shows that feedback from teachers is good and that there is also greater interest in the functioning of the country through such steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U117	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U118	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, We have also tried to ask the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, about Russia's influence. It is interesting, in itself, that the President of the Riigikogu, who refused to forward an inquiry to Mart Helme on this subject, has forwarded it to you. It is good that this debate is taking place here today. It is well known that Russia and the Kremlin, in principle, do not reject any instrument or opportunity that somehow helps to divide the society of some European Union countries internally. However, it is precisely the wringing of history under these same trainings or trainings and trainings that has been used more and more indiscriminately. After all, more and more teachers are invited not only to participate in Russian language and literature, but also to teach history, as are more and more teachers who then return with this literature. You mentioned that there are not many examples in which Russian teaching literature is used. Where should the information be provided by those who specifically have it? And what would you do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U119	Thank you. In this case, the first place is, of course, the Ministry of Education and Research. The Ministry of Education and Research generally carries out an external evaluation or uses Innove material specialists. Now, if I recall, I may have encountered a few cases where a person has made such an appeal to me through social media. In this case, external evaluations have been carried out. Usually we act like we ask the headmaster for an explanation, and mostly the headmaster sends a pretty thorough explanation. What's the effect? Attention. Surely the teachers are quite cautious, especially when we consider Russian-speaking schools, for example. I assure you that you also go to schools yourself, that teachers are very respectful of the country. And if there's a signal that there's something that's frustrating, they'd rather try not to cause it. Now for the explanation. The reason why I gave this tip here is that in one case it was not history, it was probably mathematics or physics, either, where such a really rather nostalgic work was used, although there was no question of ideology, but this textbook simply did not respond to the teaching material in all parts of the curriculum. At the time, the teacher gave such an explanation that he thought that it was whatever part of the book I might be wrong whether it was physics or mathematics, but in any case the subject of the matter was better explained in this very historical work. This teacher also confirmed that in general the works of the Soviet Union are not used as basic textbooks, but the explanation of this particular section was easier for the Russian-speaking student to understand. Maris Lauri and I discussed the percentage calculation a few weeks ago. I have to admit, I was also interested in watching my children calculate a percentage these days. I think we learned easier at school in our time, but probably all of this depends on the choice of a teacher how to teach a child within ten, for example, a few leads to ten and says that then comes 15, some don't do it, so there are different tricks. Therefore, I have no concrete example to give you today, but if you have any such signal from a group, you would already be asking for specific information and then we will start by asking for an explanation from the head of school.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U120	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have listened to your answers and, frankly, I have again raised my questioning by my colleague, Mr Kerd, to look at its title. The issue has been the import and influence of the ideology of the Russian Federation in Estonia, not the continuing training of teachers in mathematics, physics or history. I am absolutely sure that the history teachers at Estonian school know very well, say, the history of World War II or of the middle of the last century. The issue is not that they need further training. I was actually prompted to ask for a recent debate show in ETV+, where our colleagues were present in Stalnukhin and Mihkelson, and there was another history teacher who spoke Russian as his native language, I did not notice the name, and an ambassador from Russia. This history teacher had the same views as Stalnukhin and the Russian ambassador, and he was very victorious that any fact can be interpreted from very different perspectives. It was also evident that he would be happy to do so. What can the Ministry of Education do to ensure that the ideology of the Russian Federation is not imported into the Estonian school?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U122	First of all, the title and the questions. I tried to answer your questions with my best wishes today, and if I talked too much about further training, it was because there were questions about it. Now, the influence. Well, it is not the Ministry of Education and Research that appreciates the influence and its effectiveness, but it is the professional institutions that exist in Estonia. For example, when youth events take place and young people are invited, one thing is whether they go there in the first place, another, who finances them, how they get information, how they get there in the first place, and so on. Surely we are not the best, say, evaluators of effectiveness. I didn't try to ignore it in my questions-answers, just as Kei already touched on it, but I'm happy to discuss it. At the same time, I do not have the data that is particularly concerned about in general all over Estonia or, for example, only 23 Russian-speaking schools, nor have I received documents showing that this would somehow be a general problem. You don't get to young people that easily. Young people are quite selective. However, we have been able to play a very active role in the field of recreational education and activities for young people in Estonia. Local authorities must also be commended, they are on this side or on that side of the Kunda River. There are certainly many camps, chess and similar editings. No, let us say, Russia's events are the only ones involved in influence at all. Do people go to Russia? Still, young people go on excursions, in both Estonian and Russian-speaking schools there is a great interest in St Petersburg, for example, which is very attractive, such as going to Ermitage, etc. Art schools go there systematically. There are cultural exchanges, educational exchanges, as well as events for teachers. There was a conference last week. In this sense, every action in cooperation with Russia means nothing wrong. But the fact that these events are intended to influence and get contacts, we need to be aware. Of overall effectiveness, yes, as I said, we have come a long way, so in general I would dare to make such a conclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U123	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister of Education, We may have some information different from what is happening, but I would like to ask that we have one of the main organisations involved in the organisation of further training courses in the Estonian Society of History and Society Teachers. This grateful work, which they have done over the years, has certainly had a positive impact on the historical consciousness of our young people. Unfortunately, funding for this society has fallen significantly in recent years, this year to EUR 25000. Why has the funding of this vital society decreased?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U125	Thank you. I assure you, I haven't taken any money from anyone. History and social studies are indeed dealt with by the Society of History and Social Teachers, Jaan Tõnisson Institute and a few other very strong social partners here in Estonian society. The subject has been very important over the decades. Substance associations will then be financed in the budget as follows: activities relating to state examinations, olympiads and particularly talented ones, and in addition, a general social partnership. For the first time ever, we negotiated a social partnership agreement with associations of subjects two years ago, in the sense of such a systemic partnership, when the Riigikogu gave us such instructions after the Gambling Tax Council was dissolved. This year, the proposal has come out with the exception of this series on Olympics, especially talent, which is a separate line to create a network of teachers' associations, because many of these issues are not education-specific, but broader. On the contrary, budgetary resources have been significantly increased and the funding amounts to several hundred thousand as proposed in the negotiations. So the Minister is not aware of any savings in this area. I doubt it, and I do not believe that any changes have been made at the expense of any company. But yes, there is currently a proposal on the table by the Ministry of Education and Research, which is supported by most associations of subjects, namely, to bring together the organisations representing teachers as a more general round table, because their capacity and level are very different. And in total, this sum has been raised by almost 300%. So I believe that it is rather a desire to support.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U126	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Your report revealed that there is a register of textbooks used at school. And the question is this: have history books been issued in Russia in the school textbook register?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U128	No, it's not. The textbooks must comply with the syllabus and curriculum in force in Estonia. The textbooks issued in Russia are not included.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U129	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U130	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary! Estonia currently lives about 1.32 million people, including ethnic Estonians only 920000, with the number of Estonians living abroad being reduced by about 200,000. The birth rate of Estonians here in Estonia, its increase, is also questionable. After regaining independence, it seemed that the threat to our small people had been overcome because one common Estonian language was designated as the official language. This language is also supported, it must be said frankly, a generation of young foreigners living here because they do not see another country for themselves. At the same time, however, this generation needs education in Estonian in schools, and to do so more Russian-speaking schools need to be transferred to Estonian-language education. But Russian schools, especially in compact settlements, seemingly do not intend to raise the teaching of the Estonian language. The result is that young people are simply forced to leave Estonia because of bad language learning, for example from Narva, Sillamäe and Tallinn. I've been talking to several Russians about high school. Going to Western Europe, mostly, or back to the Russian Federation. Why is the Ministry of Education so helpless that it cannot solve the problems of learning the Estonian language of foreigners living here? In fact, Finland, our neighbor can. There, for example, children from Russia, Ukraine or elsewhere can learn Finnish immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U131	I do not want to give a real example of Finland, because there is another official language. Fortunately, we in Estonia are through with the debates on this issue. Estonia has one official language and it is Estonian. The state, I believe, has certainly not shown helplessness in the last 30 years. If we look back, through this three decades, there are many very decisive moments in which the right decisions have been made. It is certainly not just the restoration of independence or military capacity; much has also been done in education. There are also curriculum changes.. if we go back to 1996 and look at the curriculum again, then there have now been significant changes. It is worth thinking about where we came from and what has been achieved during that time. Our universities have developed very quickly, providing high-quality education, including both full training and refresher training for teachers. You also had a question about compact settlements. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act has a certain structure and has the expectation that the state will set objectives, they are very abstract. And the transition dates, for example, in upper secondary school, whatever they may be, have been set goals. But all the way it is implemented, where teachers are found, where resources are found and with what means they move forward step by step, it has been up to the local authorities to decide on these compact settlements. If there are not many Estonian language teachers in any local government and it is difficult to find lecturers, then it is quite late for such necessary discussions how we can support teachers or, for example, Ida-Virumaa in general. I dare say that perhaps the last five-six-seven years are being spoken of as responsibility of the state. I believe that if we strengthen the responsibility of the state even more, it is not just the concern of the local government, then we will achieve significantly better results.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U132	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U133	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! I am asking about what we have actually talked about with you before, about the general preparation of teachers. We've been talking today about refresher training. After all, training can be done in such a way that none of it improves that you go there. The question is what happens to preparing Russian-language teachers in Estonia if we do not do this. That will probably be the case, because we have directed our Russian-speaking school towards slow extinction. At last, those who are unable to go to Estonian-language school will remain there to learn. All right, history is actually very often taught in Estonian, especially in upper secondary school. So maybe in history this problem isn't the most acute, even though it's in middle school. What about the preparation of Russian-speaking school teachers in Estonia? The time has probably passed when teachers from Russian-speaking schools come from Pihkva or St Petersburg, although some good years ago exactly half of the teachers had received their basic school education there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U134	Thank you. The subject of teacher follow-up. By a few percent the teachers are older in these 23 Russian-speaking schools than in Estonian-speaking schools. But only somewhat, because when we look at the region again, the age composition of teachers in Ida-Virumaa is not drawn in any way in particular. If we take electives or basics separately there, then it must be said that, of course, the secondary growth of science teachers and language teachers is very worrying. Now for the number of students. I'm sure a good questioner knows that students are from very different backgrounds. They come to study mathematics from a home where they speak Russian and come to study mathematics from homes where they work in Estonian, English or any other language. Where will this young person later, after studying, start working? Well, we all hope it's still school. Is it Russian or Estonian? For example, logopaedia is very language-based. And actually from the participation we know that people come to Tartu, for example, to study logopaedia and many specialize in Russian logopaedics, although their studies at the University of Tartu are in Estonian. Even universities have done this. So on the subject of succeeding, we will take all measures to encourage more teachers and schools, or young people with a bright eye to come before school and then to study. Here I would not say that there is a very big difference between Estonian and Russian schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U135	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U136	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! We have quietly moved here from the subject of history teachers and the ideological influence of Russia to the subject of Estonian language. Personally, I was inspired by fear of signing this inquiry. Not fear of them, but fear of those who fall under the influence of Russia's possible ideology. In fact, you have also touched on the influence of both the media and the home in your answers and mentioned the same question of improving language learning, or improving the proficiency of the Estonian language. I really do have concerns about the young people who live among us and their socio-economic livelihood in later life. Why don't you tell us now that your coalition partners would like to move to the Estonian-language school, which are the obstacles for you, why Estonia should not or shouldn't take serious action and set a goal: in a year, three, five or ten, we will have a common Estonian-language school. What do you think these obstacles are?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U137	Thank you, good questioner! I answer as Minister of Education. But let's sit down and talk. What are we talking about? Are we talking about the date, as was done in the 1990s and early 2000s? The date was set, but nothing happened. Are we talking about closing down Russian schools and directing everyone to Estonian schools, while we know that there is a very different understanding of this issue in society? What are we talking about? Let us agree on what we are talking about under this transition, unless it is only a date that we have discussed and voted on several times in this Riigikogu, where there is absolutely no consensus in society between coalition partners and members of the Riigikogu, while voting along political groups and discussing in corridors, everyone understands that the date does not change anything. I've seen this great thing in the late 1990s and early 2000s. In 2002, I was a minister, then a date was set, then we moved it forward, at first it was 2004, then 2007. Now we see what's really gotten. Children enter university, they have graduated from upper secondary school, where now I don't know how many decades they've been called 60:40, but there are schools where this 60:40 basically means teaching in Estonian, and then there are schools where the percentages are filled, but the content is different. Why am I talking about this for so long? Apart from the policy and from the content, which we discussed in the language strategy, for example, there are so many nuances and details. Finally, it is always said that apart from Ida-Virumaa, there we look in stages. We have now proposed a programme three years ago. In addition to the immersion that already exists and works well in my opinion, the participants are very fond of it, others are cautious, thirds say they would like something else, there are schools that bring great results. Their name is usually lyceum. Its idea was once at the beginning of the 2000s that if all schools move faster to the Estonian language, some of these schools are those with the depth of Russian culture and language learning. Indeed, if we look there, for example, at the results of the state examination or there are some indicators, then there really are the best results of the language examination in the country. In that sense, it was the right direction. We have also proposed that we start in kindergarten, because there was a great deal of criticism that this transition to upper secondary school was the wrong end. The first 53 were with a methodology of 2+2 once again: in addition to the immersion, because there is a great deal of language immersion children's garden, and this method of 1+1 is then that the actual teaching is in Estonian, but one teacher works only in Estonian and is also another teacher. Very much has been worried that if a child doesn't understand or if a parent doesn't understand what happens then. This other teacher is not a subteacher, but he is in parallel with and works with those who need additional support and also works with parents, their counseling and all that. We will start with this method in schools now from 1 September. If this method is, in addition to immersion, what might charm you, for example, then perhaps we speak another language. But right now I'm being careful because I don't want to talk about the date yet. But in what way and how we can put these things together, it still has to be decided. There is a great deal of talk about bilateral immersion, a very positive example, once again on a voluntary basis. It can be applied where the parent is ready for it, because careful is the Estonian parent, especially in Ida-Virumaa, but here in Tallinn, too, some parents are rather cautious. We must also look firmly at all these changes so that we can keep up with the quality of education at all times. So the very long answer is, a good questioner, that we have to agree on what this is, what we're changing. The main focus and specific topic is that about one third of young people graduating from primary school do not learn Estonian at a level that satisfies us. Let's look at these schools alone and ask how we can go there and what extent we want the state to intervene. Because right now we've been very careful. The local government and the teacher are extremely autonomous. Do we want the state to intervene? There's been a lot of signals that we want. We'll be out soon, I think maybe in quite a few weeks, with our offers on how to change the law. If the Riigikogu wants to support it, such opportunities exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U138	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Yes, please, Katri Raik!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U139	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I myself have worked as a history teacher at the Russian-speaking school, taught history in the seventh and eighth grade in Estonian for Russian children. I prepared every hour for three hours to deal with students with very different language skills. There was one of the most interesting tasks of my life. But that's not what I want to talk about. I would like to talk briefly about another topic, which is why I myself am sitting here on the ground right now, because I have to be in the first Baltic Channel in an hour and a half. I know a lot of us wouldn't go there. Tonight is the recording "Russian Question" ('Russkii vopros'). I go because Estonian politicians have to talk about Estonian affairs themselves, and it is good to have different views, views of different political parties. It's hard for me. Often I'm two minorities in one-- I'm usually the only woman there, and I'm the only Estonian. My Russian isn't perfect, but I'm learning to do it, and I'm going to do it. With my speech, I want to tell you briefly the information about studying Russian in Estonia and to call on all politicians in this Chamber, most of whom will definitely speak Russian, if not to go to the Per or Baltiski Channel, to go boldly to Radio 4 or ETV+, precisely because our Russian-speaking population will receive more information from us and also from Estonian-national politicians. Perhaps there is even less interest in this neighbouring country. I got this from the Ministry of Education and Research. In comprehensive school, about one in three students learn Russian. This percentage has decreased by a few in ten years, not by an increase. In upper secondary school, two thirds of three young people learn Russian, and this percentage has also decreased slightly. Of course, unfortunately, this teaching of Russian often does not lead to the ability to speak the language freely, but still. There is a great interest in learning Russian. It is good that Estonia has also been allowed to take a test of Russian as a foreign language as an examination at the end of the school. Last year it was done by nearly 170 young people, 200 young people in the past night. Apparently, students of semi-Russian origin or those who speak in two languages at home or have been bilingual as a child or received their upbringing in two languages have taken the B2 exam. This shows that it is also important to recognise Russian skills. But now to the labour market. I was quite surprised to see that according to 2018 data, 'I don't know at all' or 'I am primitive' about 50% of the people on our labour market. Half the people don't speak English at all, or they don't speak English at all. That's 20% for Russian. Of course, it should be taken into account that there are also Russian-speaking people in our labour market who influence this figure. But all the statistics show that 29% of people in our labour market speak Russian very well, who say mostly that their native language is Russian or their native language is Russian. But only 8% of the rest of them speak Russian freely. These 8% are potentially those who, as active citizens, public officials or professionals, would be ready to go on a radio or television programme in Russian. Of course, Russian-speaking politicians, officials, etc. will also go there, but I am absolutely convinced that it would be good if our own Russian media had more Russian. It is not to Russ Estonia, it is to enable our Russian-speaking people to get information from us. I call on you all to make yourself a Russian Facebook page. It may seem scary at first, but it's actually quite reasonable. I would also like to call once again on everyone to participate in television and radio programmes in Russian and to have a conversation at the Per or Baltiski Channel, then in other channels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U140	Thank you. Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U141	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. I will not tell you anything new if I say that the influence from Russia will be more specific, the Moscow Kremlin will be practiced. And we shouldn't just be looking for it from us. We have seen interference in the US presidential elections here, we have seen subversive action against the various countries of the European Union, playing the interests of the countries of the European Union against each other, and so on. We have fine young people and it is very important for us to observe what is happening to these young people. This is a question of tomorrow's day in our society. Whether we can grow these young people into full members of Estonian society, our friends, depends on us. Winning friends and gaining trust is a very long-term job that requires wisdom and attentiveness. You don't have to be very smart to win enemies. It is now very important that we do not fail to respond to any signals that might touch us in this area. For example, the graduates of the school have been conscripts who have presented a Russian anthem in one of the Estonian troops and have raised the demand that orders be given to them only in Russian, etc., probably without understanding the Estonian language. Such examples should disappear from the Estonian Information Space. We must also, of course, argue very precisely and reject this propaganda. If we don't, the old lies will prove new lies, that's the mechanism of propaganda lying. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Estonian public! I call for attention and not very modesty. Rather, we react to all such malpractices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U142	Thank you. No more members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate. Thank you very much to the Minister and thank you to all the active participants in the debate. The answer to the third question is closed and today's agenda items have also been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U143	It is now possible for everyone who wishes to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. My colleague Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U144	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to talk about what happened last Wednesday in Brussels. If you remember, the President of the Commission von der Leyen presented the climate law there. At the same time, there were tens of thousands of people on the Greek-Turkey border who demanded crossing the border. Alongside the President of the Commission, an autistic young woman who had said that she had actually written a letter to the European Commission, together with 33 schoolchildren of her age, that what the climate law is trying to implement was, in fact, surrender and betrayal, and that the end of the world should be fought much more actively. Let me remind you that the plan was such that CO2 emissions should be reduced by 40% by 2030, but that in fact 50 to 55% should be achieved. In the opinion of this young activist Greta Thunberg and his friends climate activists, action should be even faster in practice. What does that mean? They had written a letter. Read this letter. It's very interesting, by the way. It has been signed by six young people from Latvia, only two from Sweden, and none from Estonia. There are two interactive charts that show the world's end in 2027 instead of 2050 or 2030. So I'm pretty sure they didn't write that letter. But at the same time, a letter from 12 governments came to the European Commission and it said that it should actually be whipped much faster, of course not until 2027. There was also Latvia, there was no Estonia, there was no Lithuania, but the strangest thing is that there was no Germany, the largest country in Europe. At the same time, the German economy, the so-called industrial union and its leaders made a statement and said that it was such a wishful thinking and, in fact, that there should be a much more argumentable approach, that it would not do anything good, but, on the contrary, it would hold back the economy. That was the position of the leader of the German industrialists, on the same day that the German President of the European Commission came up with such a pivotal climate reform, which he said was what it was like? That it's like stepping on the moon or a compass for the next 30 years. Germany said no, it's a little too dangerous. Now, if you look at what's really going on and ask, what is Europe's share of this global issue, it's now less than 4 billion, I think 3.4. How much is in the world? 43 billion if I'm not mistaken. But how much is there in China? Nearly 12 billion, I think it's 30% or 31%. Now the European continent, one of many, is trying to become climate-neutral. Well, you all know, even schoolchildren know that the climate is global, that it knows no borders, no boundaries of economic associations, etc. And now we're trying to boil thicker soup on this one continent, somewhere in the corner of the pot. At the same time, it is known that many companies are working on planting pine forests in Africa, for example, Tanzania, Uganda, Mozambique, for the sake of this global trade in carbon dioxide, but I may be wrong about some of them. And in order to achieve 'zero', i.e. climate neutrality by 2050 or 2030, all things, including any manipulations, are fit. According to one study I read a few days ago, 85% of these measures are actually quite suspicious. So I think we should be a little more realistic, just like the German industrialists and many others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U145	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare to report that the week was extremely busy, I went to meet the voters in different places and received an invitation to meet with an interesting man like Herbert Ving from Kokavitika. When the major political issues were discussed, I began to wonder what the problem was. I asked the good Herbert why he didn't like his neighbor, Altpere Kalju. Herbert, of course, was not a jealous man, and he told it all nicely. Namely, Altpere Kalju was elected a village elder some 20 years ago. Brussels-minded as he was, he began to apply a new pea-growing technology which consisted of prohibiting the villagers from using scarecrows in the pea field. They were meant to offend the poorer people. So it happened that there were no more scarecrows, but the crows and hacks ate all the seed they sowed, and the villagers lost the expected yield. So it was repeated for a few more years, until the crowds were over. So you knocked that Rock out of your office and put the scarecrows back in the field. In autumn, there had been plenty of harvests. Despite the fact that the Altpere Rock was warned and persuaded to stop, but where did you get it, Kalju was confident that he would do everything right? In the light of this half humorous story, however, I think that a clear parallel can be drawn to this day as well. The pension reform law was recently passed in this Chamber, giving people the opportunity to make free use of the money they have accumulated there. The reason for this was plenty, because the fund's productivity was close to zero, and even the European Commission, in its report, pointed out that we are a red lantern in Europe in terms of older people's livelihood. As a result, current pension funds are an excuse for expressing themselves! was practically cleared by retired pea fields. But, as the classics say, I didn't want to talk about it. Unfortunately, the President did not declare the new pension reform law, which was passed in the Riigikogu, trying to improve the situation. This, in my opinion, has created a situation which, in a sense, can be called a constitutional crisis. The President's decision not to announce the reform of the Pension Act is known to be a matter for justice. For example, an important criterion for fair trial is the fact that justice not only needs to be fair and fair, but also to appear as such. Perhaps justice must be impartial. But what are we talking about when President Kaljulaid has participated in the working group that developed the current pension reform law 20 years ago? When declaring a new law, he should, in effect, admit that he has never done a bad job in the past. Because there is no dispute that the productivity of pension funds is almost nonexistent for more than 15 years. Once again, there is, in any case, a reasonable doubt that the President was not impartial in making his decision. The signs of the constitutional crisis, however, are reflected in the fact that according to the Constitution the President declares the laws. However, if the President cannot be impartial for the reasons mentioned above, who will enforce the law? Look, here's my question mark. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-09_U147	Thank you. There are no more free microphone registered, so the free microphone has ended and today's session has ended. Thank you, colleagues. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 6.36 p.m.
