ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our week. We have the Monday session of the 9th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, as usual, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. I don't think that's what you want. Then there's the next checkup. There are 24 members of the Riigikogu and 77 are missing. Andrei Korobeiinik has his hand up, is there a suggestion or a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U2	Thank you. I propose that the timetable for this week be changed so that plenary sessions take place today, 23 March and Wednesday, 25 March, and on Wednesday, 25 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U3	Thank you. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Can we go to the vote? I am voting on the proposal to change the timetable for the 9th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu so that plenary sessions take place today, 23 March, and Wednesday, 25 March, and on Wednesday, 25 March. Please take a stand and vote. There are 25 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions. The timetable of the Riigikogu has been changed. We now come to the approval of the agenda. This Thursday session of the working week was scheduled for elections to the Riigikogu Board, but the plenary session now changed the timetable and the last session of this week will take place on Wednesday, 25 March. Since pursuant to § 6 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the elections to the Riigikogu Board must take place at the last session of the week of the sitting, the elections to the Riigikogu will take place on Wednesday 25 March. Together with this amendment, I will vote on the approval of the agenda for the 9th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 25 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U4	Now we come to today's first point. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Rescue Act and the Weapons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. As usual, our procedures foresee that the initiator will first have the opportunity to report for up to 20 minutes, then the representative of the commission will have a presentation, as well as up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask up to two oral questions and there is one minute to ask the question. Then there are negotiations, if you like. Today's draft rapporteur is Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior, and the chairman of the committee, Jaanus Karilaid, will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I'd like the Secretary of the Interior, Mart Helme, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U5	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, to clarify, before I come to the draft: this is not a completely new and recently launched draft. The original version of the draft act dates back to 2018, therefore from the time of the previous government, but now it became urgent in view of the fact that the current corona crisis, as an urgent change, has led to the launch of the 1247 hotline and the large-scale involvement of volunteers in both the work of the information service and other work in the field of law enforcement, and therefore urgent improvements and changes are needed here. However, we also take this opportunity to deal with cases that have already been pending since 2018. This explanation is, in my view, necessary because otherwise people may be somewhat incomprehensible as to why we are dealing with the amendment of the rescue law and the arms law. These things are all in one law together. And since, at different times, the changes that have been made with the participation of several parties have accumulated, we in the ministry think that it is now reasonable to process them at the same time. To clarify this, if perhaps there is a question of why the topics of the Deminator, Rescue and Alert Centre staff are all here together in a single draft. This is not a cluster bill, but a draft which deals with all these things in their entirety, although improvements may give the impression that there is some sort of hacking and artificially assembled collection. But let's go to the bill. What are the main changes? First of all, we are talking about the Rescue Board, because it is also at the forefront during the current crisis. The Rescue Board is an institution which has not only a preventive function and a function related to a particular event, but also a function of determining the causes. This means that according to the Rescue Act, the Rescue Board must identify, for example, the causes of the fire. Unfortunately, the law overlooks the fact that the Rescue Board itself does not have the right to demand clarification. They may be refused, i.e. the provision of materials and the investigation of the scene of the crime may be refused. This means that in many cases the Rescue Board has received the necessary data only during the trial initiated. In total, we have 79 cases like this, as far as I can find on these papers. It's not normal. It would be normal for the Rescue Board, in the course of its research, to immediately have access to the necessary activities, to the necessary materials, to the necessary sites and to everything else, in order not to wait for the details to be disclosed during the hearing, but, on the contrary, to give its expertise in the course of the hearing in its entirety. We have therefore proposed amendments to the draft. A certain degree of legal clarity will also be created. Preventive work is a very important section of the Rescue Board's activities, in terms of content, and it reduces the administrative burden of involving voluntary rescuers through the health check, simplifying this control. To illustrate, the current situation is that a separate medical examination and other appropriate procedures must be carried out to act as a voluntary rescuer, while a person has valid medical certificates relating to a driver's licence, a weapons permit or any other document. We find it completely pointless for a person to go to medical checkup once more. This means a multi-layer administrative burden. And we also consider that if there is a valid medical certificate, there is no need to apply again for any special medical certificate. Now let's go to the Deminers. Deminerers are given the right to carry and use firearms under certain conditions in order to ensure the safety of deminers. What does that mean? This means that under certain conditions, i.e. demining operations, deminerators have the right to carry a weapon and, in order to protect themselves and prevent their actions and handling material from falling into the wrong hands, they have the right to use a portable weapon. Figuratively speaking, we can imagine that the rescuers are going to demining some kind of explosive, such as mines, shells, other bodies, or exploding material, but some characters decide that since the demineers have collected a nice amount, now is the right time to take it away from them. If deminerators do not have the right to use a weapon to protect themselves, themselves and all the material, then armed attacks can be very successful. In order to prevent such situations, perhaps only theoretical, but still, we are proposing this amendment to the law. Within the framework of this role, there is also the establishment, improvement and improvement of standards for blasting sites to ensure the safety of humans and the surrounding environment in the destruction of explosive substances. We cannot say that these conditions are not yet in place, but there have been cases where there has been at least a theoretical risk to human health in handling larger explosive devices in the event of a shock wave, as well as other related consequences. In order for this risk not even to be theoretical, these conditions will be somewhat improved and tightened up, i.e. they will be transformed into such a way that such a threat cannot even theoretically exist. Go on, let's get to volunteering. This is a very important paragraph and we currently have some gaps in guaranteeing voluntary social guarantees. This draft also deals with these social guarantees that volunteers who are involved in an operation, event or other public activities will not be in an unequal position compared to professionals. This is very important, because we are all professional or voluntary in the flesh and the guarantee of accidents is not more excluded for volunteers than for professionals. It also has to do with the fact that we have launched a new hotline, which has been operating for the second week now. Last week, the number of calls from the Alarm Centre, as well as the number of calls to the ceiling on a new phone number launched, went up to 1247 at peak times, so the Alarm Centre could no longer handle its employees and included volunteers. It is true that among the first volunteers from the Ministry of the Interior, certain qualifications and rights exist, unlike volunteers from ordinary volunteers, i.e. ordinary citizens, but it became clear quickly that they still have one problem: namely, volunteers do not have the right to handle and transmit all data in the same way, in equal measure, with the employees of the Professional Alarm Centre. I'll give you another example of life itself. Volunteers do not have the right to provide callers with certain personal data, even if the caller is identified and the person for whom he or she wishes the data has also been identified, there is no right to transmit such data. In anticipation and a little in anticipation of questions, I will also explain what it means when volunteers are provided with such rights by law. I imagine that this may be one of the issues that raises questions for the MPs, particularly because of the protection of personal data, so I will explain. Volunteers working at the PSAP will undergo thorough background checks and training. It's not just that they say, "Hey, Jüri, Jaan, Mart, Sergei, we really need one person, come on over here and take a call, see where you can get the information you need to give them, we'll give you a quarter-hour training, and everything's fine." No, it doesn't work that way. Both background checks and training are thorough and must ensure that volunteers know exactly what their rights are and what their responsibilities are. Go on. Personal data that may be processed are also visible only in the institution where the person is present or where the person received the service. Not the whole point of view, not the whole data bank, it's not going anywhere. This is a very, very limited amount of information that will be available by request and is not allowed to be transmitted electronically in any way. All calls are recorded. If someone asks a question, for example, I want to know where my husband, Helle-Moonika Helme, has disappeared, then he must identify himself, give his personal identification number and name, as well as the personal identification number and name of the person who is wanted to receive the data. It's not like I'm saying I want to get any Jaan Island data, and I'm about to be given them, and they're asking me that we have 20 Jaan Island here, which of them you want, we can give you all, if you want. No, it's a specific Jaan Saar, with a specific personal identification number, and only the information that is required in the context of this request will be provided. For example, if he has been in an accident or hospital, he or she will be examined for his or her medical condition and where he or she can be contacted permanently. There's no such thing as sharing any random data. It is also important that the data is not transmitted to the employer for the protection of the person. These are explanations in addition to the inclusion of volunteers in order to improve the work of the Emergency Response Centre crisis telephone and to better serve the population. In principle, these are briefly the changes that we intend to make in this draft. That's all I'd say right now. If you have any questions, I'll try to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U6	Thank you, good minister. Indeed, there are questions. Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U7	Thank you for the explanations regarding the involvement of volunteers and the transfer of their personal data. Do you agree with me that Paragraph 1 (10) of the current Act is worded too generally and should be clarified in the course of the work of the Commission in order to remove all concerns and fears in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U8	Yes, of course I agree. Having also been a vigilante and proposed many improvements, I agree, of course. I do not dispute at all the collective wisdom of the ambassadors in order to improve the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U9	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U10	Thanks for the explanations. My question comes about the same thing. There is still quite a fundamental change in this draft, apart from the regulation of the very necessary emergency telephone, concerning the substantive opening of health data to the same volunteers who will be helpful in answering the phone. I am very interested in this argument or in the consideration of why you decided to make such a fundamental change and whether this is where you consider it possible to further elaborate on this draft. Because the circle of those who have the right to ask for such information about their loved ones is beautifully broad, according to this bill. It seems like a pretty dangerous precedent if we open our data like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U11	Yes, we do not argue that this is such a delicate issue, and we are all afraid that there might be a possibility of abuse here. We're all afraid of it. And therefore, once again, I would like to stress that all volunteers must meet the requirements for admission to public service. All volunteers working on the Alert Centre phone line will undergo appropriate background checks and must meet all requirements. The current somewhat abused situation in the country, not only in our country, but in Europe and the world as a whole, because of human health, has shown that the number of calls asking about their loved ones has increased dramatically. Especially for older people who are somewhere in nursing homes or hospitals, they're afraid of how they are and whether they're okay. As has been said, volunteers are unable to access and respond to these data, so people are left unscathed. Very much is wanted to know not even so much where a person is and what health he is in, but rather whether a person can visit, when it is possible to visit, etc. So this issue is certainly more seasonally topical now, if it is perhaps in a few months' time, then the crisis will hopefully come to an end. But this is the situation now, and it has also put a certain pressure on us to deal with this draft quickly. Although rumors are being spread in society about my tendency to authoritarianism, I have no tendency to authoritarianism. If the MPs have concerns that there may be a back door or an air window open to abuse, and proposals are made that should rule out 100% of these possible misuses, I can assure you, on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior, that we are completely open to such proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U12	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U13	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Undoubtedly, I feel that this law deserves to be supported. It's just for the sake of clarity, and it's about the phone 1247. Is this a phone of a temporary nature? He's in the middle of a crisis. Will this phone be closed when the crisis is over, or how?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U14	No, there's no plan to shut this phone down. The preparation of this phone has actually been going on for a long time, and for at least six months I have heard at the meetings how it is being set up. Today, as we all know, specific IT solutions and similar programmes are needed. I'm too stupid to know all these things and details, but I know it's been done for a while. For a very simple reason: because 112 has received massive calls not related to a direct emergency. Phone 112, however, is basically the number to receive help ♪ when someone's house is on fire, someone fell somewhere, someone suddenly has a health problem, and so on. Then 112 is the phone we call and ask to send an ambulance to this and this address, for example, because the husband or someone started to feel very, very bad. Then there's Charlie's call and the ambulance goes. Now, if on this same phone, 112 is complaining about their difficult fate with respect to coronavir, the symptoms of which he doesn't have, he's holding this line in vain. At the moment, we have a response time of about 4 to 6 seconds for both phones, 112 and 1247. Well, four to six seconds is quite the time that maybe two beeps can make the call, and then they'll be accepted. This means that we have, as I said, a phone at the peak of 1247 currently falling on 2,000 calls, but it was about 3,000. A thousand calls have already reduced the number of complaining calls, calls for help, and calls for information within a week, which means that 112 responses have improved by about half. And it's important. This also means that the call will also be sent from 112 to where it really is needed, either to the police, to the Rescue Board or to the ambulance, while at the same time, people receiving calls from 1247 will have more time to listen to someone's concerns and provide adequate information for the solution. So that phone number stays.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U15	Thank you. I have such a question to go on with earlier questions. This need for volunteers is perfectly understandable, and it is perfectly understandable that they should be checked first. But if they have to answer the question of where your relative is in the hospital, where someone close to you is in the nursing home, will there be a database or what register they use to provide their answers? Is it possible to clarify this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U16	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U17	In principle, it is possible to clarify. In this sense, for example, last week, when we had a question on the agenda about what we are doing with the Latvian border, and some very alarming speeches came in about how some companies that are using the Latvian workforce more extensively would be in trouble, then we took the data out of the employees' register, how many people of Latvian origin we have. Turns out there are 3050 people, and the data bank is completely there. And we have a whole bunch of data banks like that. They are closed and there are no publicly available data banks, but of course we have the institutions in the country to which they are available. We have a population register and it has its own divisions, different registers, and it is possible to obtain quite detailed information from there. But this information in such detail, of course, doesn't go to the emergency phone or just to the alarm center's 112. It's already so specific and detailed. However, it is possible, yes, to make inquiries in certain individual cases and to obtain this query. As I said, there is nothing more to know about the alarm center of the queryer, i.e. it cannot run the entire data bank into that computer, but it can make a specific request so that it can answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U18	Thank you. Dear waitress, You described this bill, and I understand that it is urgent, otherwise we would not be in this Chamber discussing it on this very day. But we all also perceive that there is at least one part of the law around which the most questions arise and where it is perhaps the most sensitive and most difficult to find a balance, that is, the same processing of health data resulting from the protection of personal data. In principle, if it turns out to be a part that would like to get more deliberation and more time, do you think that this part of the bill could be removed from the bill with the first momentum and adopted without it? Or does this law no longer make sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U19	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U20	However, I would have a serious request that the honourable Riigikogu should not take anything out of this law or reject it, because right now, as I said, we have people who qualify, all the checks and trainings have passed. They're actually Internal Affairs employees who are already volunteering for this emergency phone. We would like to bring this matter entirely into line with the law. Otherwise, we should call those volunteers back. We now have a situation that, although not illegal, would like to be fully regularised. I can also, of course, slightly clarify the assumptions concerning specific requests for persons. The prerequisites for receiving data are the following: the person making the request discloses the name, surname, personal identification number or date of birth of the person close to him or her, the person making the request discloses his or her first and last name, personal identification number or date of birth, telephone number and his or her relationship with the person close to him or her. It must also explain why it believes that a close person is affected by a crisis situation. If the person making the request refuses to answer or the information raises doubts, the Alarm Centre will not release the data. The Alert Centre checks the identity of the persons from the population register. It's an automated request. I think this thing is still pretty well under control. It can never be ruled out 100%, but it seems to me that here in the law we have tried to make these threats as small as possible. So I would have a request to process it as a whole and not to delay it, although the Ministry cannot dictate anything in advance to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U21	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm still a little confused about exactly what kind of data you can get. At one point, you said that you could ask where my loved one was in hospital or where he was in hospital, but I think you mentioned in your report when you brought your example and your spouse, including the medical records, i.e. what exactly was wrong with him and what had been done to him. My question is, what exactly can be asked and where do these data come from? A moment ago, you said from the population register. At the same time, the population register does not provide health data. So how does the population register get that information about what hospital someone's in? Now, can you explain this in such a complex way, in the order of my questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U23	Yeah, I can explain a little. In principle, we are still a very digitalised country. For every person who gets caught, be it the police, somewhere in the hospital, an ambulance, an ER or somewhere else in the state, the relevant data is immediately entered into the network. And through the network, this information goes to the population register. Like I said, we have a whole bunch of subdivisions in the population register. To clarify so much, the following data concerning the victim shall be provided in response to requests from the crisis hotline: whether, where and when health care has been provided to him in connection with the crisis situation. Information on the person's medical condition will not be processed, but a generalisation will be made, for example, whether the person has received medical assistance in connection with a crisis situation, whether the person has been examined by an ambulance or whether the person has been hospitalised and, if so, which one. That's all. No more information will be given.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U24	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U25	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, My question concerns the requirements for the detonation site. Since I myself have found 33 explosive devices, one quarter of which is basically detonated on site, I note that there is a very well-defined code of use for a permanent blast site in this draft, but there is no temporary regulation for it, which is somewhat understandable to me, because the hazard zone for each explosive is different. Am I right to understand that the blasting site and its general requirements are based on the point of view and the plan of the demining manager?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U26	Every case is different. I'm not such a specialist in demining, but according to the information I've been given, things like the fragments that fly apart when an explosive is destroyed, their extent, how far the shock wave goes, etc. have not always been adequately taken into account. The high temperature and the sound associated with the explosion may disturb people in the vicinity and beyond. These are the things that have now been taken into account under the new rules. I don't dare go into any more details because I didn't bring the full text of the draft. But I remember that when I read this bill, I had the same questions, and it was made clear to me that these are the reasons why these improvements and changes have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U27	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U28	Thank you. Volunteers are, in any case, doing a crucial job, there is no doubt about it, and we all certainly recognise that. However, as we come to this particular draft, its wording itself is so scattered at the moment that it is perhaps a bit harsh, but let us say that it is so wide that there is still a question of how it is ensured that only the case of the crisis and not the whole medical history is opened and shared. Because I understand that the goal is not that volunteers who have come to help answer the phone have a history of the entire person. Do you agree that the principle must still be maintained that volunteers who are rescue officers should not have such broad access to their previous medical history and medical records without the consent of the person himself and should not share this information?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U29	Yeah, I totally agree with that. And, as I said earlier, in answering Mr Networkship's question, the data that can be provided within this query is very limited. There's no complete medical history. Since this is a crisis hotline, we still treat it first and foremost as providing basic information about whether a person has been in a hospital, a sobering house, or anywhere. There's nothing more to say about him. However, if all of this remains confusing with the draft, I think there is something else that can be clarified during the procedure. Once again, the Ministry of the Interior is in no way opposed to specifying some confusing or ambiguous details in the course of the amendments. I don't see that we have any desire to leave anything vague here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U30	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U31	Thanks again! The members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were given a demonstration last year of the work of the Deminators and a very good overview of how it works, what risks there are, etc. That is why I am asking a very specific question concerning the authorisation of weapons to deminers. All this "experiential demonstration" left the notion that the demisters are doing extremely dangerous work. If they have a gun in their pockets, will they be able to solve the emergency situation if necessary? Is that the desire and proposal of the rescue officers themselves to obtain this weapons permit? And another more practical question may seem incompetent to you, but why, for example, are security teams not used to help in such extra situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U32	Here's a few moments. One is that many deminers actually have a personal weapon, but by law they should not carry or use a personal weapon there because they are on duty there, they have certain limitations. Now we're just going to take this limit down. The second question is whether to send some kind of K-command task force, high-speed reactioners. This is now a matter of resource. If the Estonian state thinks that it is so rich that we drive these men every time a mine or grenade is disabled somewhere, it is possible. But I'm not very sure it's very practical and reasonable in terms of resource savings, because without counting exactly how many men we have in one unit or another, I'm just saying that there aren't too many.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U33	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U34	I'll be back to that health data search through the info line. You also indicated that in order to receive information, you must identify yourself by name and personal identification code, as well as by the name and personal identification code of the person who is interested in it. You brought an example of yourself and your husband. But I'm pretty sure that in fact, everyone is quite easily able to find your own and your husband's personal identification numbers on the Internet, for example. Don't you think it's a little too easy to identify yourself, especially for those who want to abuse data, more so for people like yourself, who are, for example, ministers, members of the Riigikogu or other public figures. Couldn't this identification still be a little more complicated? For example, to get information about the banks, I need to identify myself with a mobile ID. This name and personal identification number are too easily available in my opinion. Don't you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U35	It is possible that some criteria may be included here, I do not rule this out, but since this is a very limited amount of data and also a limited time frame, I do not see any very serious risks here. Yes, of course, the name and personal identification number are important things, but at the same time we know that it is not enough to get into the bank either to have a name and a personal identification number; there are still other filters and security barriers. So I do not feel very concerned about this now that it could become the subject of such mass abuse. But if any additional security measures are proposed, I don't think we have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U36	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U37	Thank you. As you can see, the main issue is still the protection of human health data and the text of the law is relatively general. Have you not considered the possibility, even if it is an event in the short term or a situation, of including in the law, for example, the text that the methods of transmitting the data to be provided, the security rules, the scope of the data to be transmitted, is laid down by a decree of the Minister of the Interior. If this draft regulation were on our table, it would certainly be much easier for us to believe that the risk of abuse is low.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U38	Possibly, but this option has not been considered at the moment, although I understand that it is a proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U39	Thank you. No further questions. Now I hand over the chair to the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Karilaid. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U40	Ladies and gentlemen, An extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs took place on 19 March. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Minister of the Interior and the officials of the Ministry of the Interior were present. There was a similar story about the objectives of the bill, like in this big hall, so I'm not going to refer it over. We've had two glitches there. One was the date of first reading, this problem we solved with a vote. The second glitch was the processing of sensitive personal data, and we solved it by sending a letter to the Social Affairs Committee and now waiting for the Commission's expert opinion on this problem by the beginning of April. We also made appropriate decisions to move forward with the procedure. The first was to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 23 March, and the second was to close the first reading, five on both sides. The president of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Kariliid, was appointed rapporteur, was a consensual decision. And the deadline for amendments is 9 April at 1 p.m. So four decisions were taken in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U41	Thank you. Looks like you don't have any questions. As good practice requires, there is an opportunity to open negotiations. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish for this? No, it's not. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 128. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 9 April at 13 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-23_U42	And now, ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to sign up for a free speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. But it doesn't look like there's any calls. Thank you. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 15.51 p.m.
