ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U1	Good day, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, the delivery of drafts and enquiries. Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, on behalf of the government of the Republic, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. The first draft law amending the Holidays and Holidays Act and the Estonian Flag Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik. Secondly, the draft law amending the Construction Code, the Construction Code and the Planning Act and the Energy Economy Organisation Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. Thirdly, the draft law approving the amendment to the agreement on the amendment of Section 14 of the Statutes annexed to the Treaty of 11 February 2004 between Estonia, Iceland, Lithuania, Latvia, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark concerning the Nordic Investment Bank. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme. And fourthly, the bill to amend the Law of the Courts and the Code of Civil Procedure. The Government of the Republic is represented by Raivo Aeg, Minister of Justice, when this bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. All four draft laws are submitted electronically through the draft information system. Thank you and your strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U3	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts and we process them in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. And now for presence control. There are 67 delegates and 34 missing. The next item is the adoption of the agenda. I am voting on the approval of the 10th working week agenda for the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 67 delegates voted in favour of the agenda, no votes against and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. Yes, Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U4	I have a proposal on how we work. I propose that the days of our sittings be Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U5	This week?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U6	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U7	Thank you. Question Time is also on Wednesdays. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U8	I have a request. If we finally get to the vote, then as the people's offices are located at different distances, perhaps it would be possible to take a short break before the call to vote, so that everyone can get to the hall on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U9	Are we going to vote on this, or do we all agree with this proposal that we will give a longer time to get to the hall? I'm just gonna honk the signal a little longer. Thank you. But now I am voting on the proposal to change the working schedule of the 10th working week of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu so that the plenary sessions take place on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday and on Wednesday. Please take a stand and vote. There are 58 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The work schedule has been changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U10	Now we come to today's agenda and it is probably going to be a very long day for our work today. First of all, the second reading of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities and the Act amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act 146. Signe Riisalo, member of the Social Affairs Committee, would you like to speak here as a waitress?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U11	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Second reading of the Social Welfare Act, Social Benefits for Disabled Persons Act and Employment Services and Benefits Act 146. From now on, I'll just call it a bill. The first reading was closed on 26 February and the deadline for submitting amendments was 11 March. At that time, a number of views were received on the draft. The Ministry of Social Affairs tabled an amendment and so did Helmen Kütt, a member of the Social Democratic Party. It is noteworthy that this draft was coordinated and shared with 25 social partners for their opinion, five of whom also expressed their views in writing. The Ministry of Social Affairs also published its position. The meetings of the Social Committee took place on 23, 30 and 31 March. I will now present you with the opinions and proposals. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, Chancellor of Justice and some members of the Social Affairs Committee paid attention to the creation of palliative conditions for special care providers compared to general care providers. In addition, the Chancellor of Justice contested that, if, until now, the Social Welfare Act has provided services and claims in the text of the Act, it was now intended to create a situation where a regulation would have been sufficient. During the discussions and on the basis of the Ministry's own proposal, changes to the requirements of the special care service were waived. In the meantime, the Ministry of Social Affairs presented two additional proposals related to the Maritime Labour Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act. Since neither amendment nor law is directly related to the crisis situation, in its second turn, the Ministry of Social Affairs withdrew these proposals. It is noteworthy that, in fact, the amendment to the Act on Unemployment Insurance has received a letter of formal notice from the Chancellor of Justice several times in the past. This is an unequal treatment. Although in very few cases where a person has worked in a country of the European Union and wants unemployment insurance there, the situation of unequal treatment may arise, but this amendment has now been removed from the draft. Now, however, the amendments that have remained in the draft. Since the changes have been quite extensive, it is important to mention that the proposal made by the Ministry of Social Affairs as a Commission proposal is to give the parents of care families a minimum of half of the minimum wage set by the Government instead of a quarter of the current minimum wage. And that's for a care family of one child. The background is, on the one hand, that we have known at the beginning of this year a large surplus from the state budget for substitution and after-care, which had been given to local governments through a support fund. But this change will certainly help to find better care families in the current crisis, so that children do not have to live in an institution but can live in a family. The second amendment also concerns care families, replacement care in the family home and replacement care with children living in a replacement home and the number of children placed in the family. According to the draft, it is possible to increase the number of children in emergency situations. So far, it was possible with the consent of all the guardians of children living in the family, or local authorities, but the bill introduces an addition to the fact that it must also be confirmed by the Social Insurance Board that increasing the number of children would be in the interests of all children. The wording of this amendment was further refined at the last minute, at the request of the member of the Social Affairs Committee, so that children's rights would indeed be guaranteed to the maximum. If there is no need, the number of children in the family cannot be increased. Now the second amendment, which is also included in the draft, concerns people with primary psychosis. According to the Social Welfare Act, the service of social rehabilitation has so far only been granted to persons who have been given the degree of disability. On the other hand, in the case of primary psychosis, the change would, if necessary, also allow the provision of a social rehabilitation service. And here is the background of an earlier pilot project, which shows that a very large number of people who have been psychotic are returning to the labour market in the event of rapid and appropriate combinations of health and social services and are doing very well in their lives. The next amendment is undoubtedly linked to the crisis situation and was created for emergency, emergency or martial law purposes, giving the Government of the Republic the right to pay financial support in the event of difficulties in coping. The provision of the law does not determine who, and how much, is entitled to pay, but leaves it to the government to decide. This is only a minimum and maximum rate ranging from EUR 5 to 10 times the subsistence limit. As the subsistence limit is 150 euros, the maximum amount is 1500 euros. Since these measures are financed from the state budget, this measure is also linked to the procedure for granting these additional resources for this purpose in the context of an emergency situation. To be precise, it is now planned to provide financial support to parents who are forced to stay away from the labour market alongside their disabled child or child with special educational needs, as schools, including public schools for children with disabilities, are closed and need more than average supervision and care. Their parents' income should be compensated. The Government has a desire to implement this measure as soon as possible and, since we are in such an unusual situation, we do not yet have the required draft regulation on documents today. Now the second package is the amendment of the Social Benefits for Persons with Disabilities Act, which says that it is possible to cross-use the basic documents for the assessment of working capacity and disability and to put less bureaucracy and pressure on people to make applications for documents. In the same way, it reduces the pressure on both the Labour Market Board and the Social Insurance Board. It is also intended to establish that if the person's health condition, which has led to disability, is known and does not change or is even progressive, then it is not appropriate to re-evaluate the disability at any time, but to determine the degree of disability for children until they reach 16 years of age. The following change relates to children up to 16 years of age diagnosed with phenylketonuria. Although the draft provides an opportunity for the Minister's regulation to assess exactly what diagnosis and state of health should be, children with phenylketonuria are known to be particularly affected today. This amendment also provides that, in the case of rare diseases, additional social benefits for persons with disabilities are to be paid without disability being granted, and the Ministerial Regulation regulates the diagnosis for which this allowance can be paid. I would also like to point out that at the beginning of this year, disability benefits doubled and tripled according to the degree of disability. This amount covers the cost of special food and medicines for children diagnosed with phenylketonuria, estimated at EUR 250 each month. Now, with the amendment of the Labour Market Services and Support Act, which is planned as follows: If a person has registered as unemployed, today he or she must physically go to the Labour Market Board to extend his or her status. However, the amendment allows for an electronic call to be made both by telephone and through the unemployment fund's information system in order to maintain and, if necessary, extend its unemployment status. This measure is also appropriate in the current crisis situation, where we want to minimise physical contact. The amendment made by the Member of the Commission, Mrs Helmen Kütt, concerns the amendment of the Income Tax Act and says: 'Resident natural persons have the right to deduct from their income during the tax period the costs they have paid for themselves or their spouse, a relative in need of assistance or an ascending relative who is unable to sustain himself or herself for the general care service provided outside their home. ' And here is the background to the concern that about 80% of the total cost of general care is covered today by a private person, not by the local government or the state, but by a person, a family, who at the same time also has dependent children whose educational costs must be covered, and such a burden is clearly unreasonable, so such a deduction of income from taxable income would be appropriate. All the proposed amendments were unanimously accepted by the Commission, with the exception of the proposal by the Member of the Commission, Helmen Küt, to amend the Income Tax Act. The Commission proposes to conclude the second reading and to carry out the third reading the day after tomorrow, 8 April.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U12	Thank you. Now all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask up to two questions to the rapporteur and the length of the question is one minute. But it seems there are no questions. We are going to the negotiations, as usual, and there is a chance for the representatives of the political groups to speak. First, please, over here... I'm sorry! Anyone who wishes to speak gets the floor, yes! First, please, this is Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U13	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! Today's second-reading draft of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government, the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities and the Amendment to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act 146 are much better than the same law at first reading on 2 April. That's true, it's a little different. At first reading, I was critical in my speech, pointing out that this is another cluster law to which special care is last welded. On the other hand, today I want to point out precisely the positive way in which the Ministry of Social Affairs, Minister Tanel Kiik and Deputy Chancellor Rait Kuuse and the hardworking team of the Ministry have realised that rapid and necessary legislative changes must be made in an operational and consensus-seeking manner. The Ministry of Social Affairs made the only right decision, not using the majority of the coalition, and the Social Affairs Committee's proposal to withdraw from the draft law the chapters and sections relating to special care and related changes. Such behaviour and the search for consensus could serve as an example for the whole government to seek consensus, to make decisions that are indispensable, sensible and urgent in an emergency, and not to take up their electoral promises, some of which have not even found place in the coalition agreement. The proposals added by the Ministry of Social Affairs, aimed at ensuring support for parents of children with disabilities and children with special educational needs whose children are immunocompromised or whose special needs require greater support and supervision at home than usual, so that the parent cannot continue to work temporarily, were of course unanimous in the Committee on Social Affairs and are also included in the second-reading bill today. Still to start paying out the grant in April. The target group for such a significant and very necessary change is one-and-a-half-year-olds, including parents of children with immune deficiency, severe and deep disability and special support, as well as parents of children with enhanced support, such as parents with permanent learning difficulties, intellectual disabilities, mental and behavioural disorders. The maximum size of the target group is 11000 children, but the actual number of beneficiaries is probably smaller because not all parents have, can and do not want to stay away from work. What I would like to emphasise, however, is that parents working under the Employment Contracts Act, the Civil Service Act and the Law of Obligations Act will receive support. The allowance shall be paid until the emergency situation has ended and shall not be subject to either income tax or social tax. Everyone receives more information from the website of the Social Insurance Board after becoming the law. At this point, I could conclude my speech and say that I, and certainly all the other Social Democrats, will support the completion of the second reading of bill 146 and its adoption at third reading, hopefully, already on Wednesday this week. However, I came here to ask my fellow Members for support for another amendment, namely Amendment 2 in the table of the amendments, supported by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which received 4 votes in favour and 5 votes against in the Committee on Social Affairs, which is why the Commission did not support this amendment. However, today in this Chamber, it will come to the vote again. And indeed, this amendment concerns the costs of nursing homes. The resident natural person has the right to deduct from the income of the tax period the costs he or she incurs during the tax period of his or her spouse, who is in need of assistance... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U14	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U15	... or paid for the general care provided outside the home by an ascending relative who is unable to support himself. It would enter into force on 1 January 2021 and could be taken into account when completing the tax return. Why do I count on your support? I count on your support because on 3 February, Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik said that there has been a debate at the meeting of the Cabinet on a welfare home fee that could be deducted from the tax return. There has also been a debate on the creation of tax incentives for an employer who would be able to pay part of the amount needed without having to pay social and income tax on it. Today, it is possible to support the health costs of every 300 euros per quarter, a similar principle could be established elsewhere. So has claimed Tanel swing in his interview. And ever since the previous government of Jüri Ratas started, Jüri Ratas said that it is not who is proposing that matters, but whether the proposal is good, because if the proposal is good, it could be supported. I very much hope that if you start pressing the button when voting on Amendment 2, you will think that this is very little help, but that it will still help those people who pay their loved ones' home expenses, especially knowing that they grew on 1 January and 1 April. Moreover, we all know that there are no support measures for maintenance costs or municipal compensation in the packages to be discussed on the next agenda items. It's hard for everyone, but it would be one step, and it certainly isn't the only solution that would show that these people are also thought of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U16	Thank you. It seems that there is no further wish for negotiation. I close the negotiations and we go to the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has been tabled by Mr Kütt and the proposal of the commission of directors has been rejected. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U17	Thank you very much. I ask for support for this amendment. And then make it a three-minute break so everyone gets to the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U18	Yeah, let's put it to a vote. The call will last three minutes, then everyone will be in the hall. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by Mr Kütt, whose commission recommends that no account be taken of. Please take a stand and vote. 15 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 39 against. The proposal was not supported. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 146 and the second reading is to be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U19	We now come to today's item No 2, which is the first reading of draft law on the amendment of the law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic relating to the spread of the disease virus SARS-Cov-2 (COVID-19). Minister of Justice Raivo Aegi, to waitress here at the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U20	Is there a specific time for the report?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U21	20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U22	Can I get an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U23	I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Last Thursday, the government approved a draft law amending the law and other laws, which brings together the amendments of the laws of the various ministries necessary to implement the measures designed to mitigate the effects and consequences of the pandemic spread of the corona virus. A total of 33 legislative amendments and drafts have been submitted. The explanatory memorandum has been prepared by the State Chancellery and has done so on the basis of the drafts and explanatory notes submitted by the ministries. The amendments included in the draft are submitted by the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Since the amendments to all laws are the result of a common primary objective, the title of the bill contains the law, which is the first in alphabetical order, and all amendments to the law are presented in alphabetical order. The need for the drafting of the draft has been made necessary by the special situation announced by the Government of the Republic in Order No 76 of 12 March 2020 and by the difficulties encountered in resolving the emergency situation, which have arisen, in particular, from the impossibility of establishing the special features to be applied during an emergency situation under the law in force. In times of emergency, it may be difficult to ensure the normal course of special procedures and the provision of public and other services. The issue or extension of various certificates, permits and documents has also been disrupted or impeded, as in the current emergency situation, people-to-people contacts must be kept to a minimum. We must ensure the functioning of society in the country even in times of emergency. It is extremely important that the problems raised are addressed quickly and that the provision of services is carried out without interruption. It is therefore necessary to ensure that derogations can be made in respect of the requirements laid down by law and that, where necessary, the procedure can be extended or temporarily suspended. It is also necessary to encourage non-contact handling and to reduce physical contacts between persons when carrying out special procedural procedures. In short. The amendments to the law incorporated in this draft are of a threefold nature: firstly, the exceptions laid down for the duration of permits in different fields and the duration and deadlines of different types of procedures for the duration of the emergency situation; secondly, the exceptions provided for the extension of the competences and tasks of different institutions and persons; thirdly, the amendments necessary for the emergency situation, but in substance of a lasting nature. A number of laws provide for temporary derogations for the duration of an emergency situation to extend existing health and training certificates in different areas and for the validity of existing operating licences and permits, temporary relaxation of qualifications requirements in some professions and simplification of some procedural requirements and deadlines. At this point, I would stress that these are only reliefs provided for during the emergency period, which will help to ensure that certain services, procedures and work are not interrupted at that time. The draft also introduces substantive changes to facilitate the resolution of the emergency situation. In order to ensure order and to better involve the police and the defence allies, their competences, together with the police, have been harmonised in the performance of their law enforcement tasks. In this context, the use of law enforcement measures by relief police officers and defence allies has been extended during emergency situations. Some public authorities have been given more powers and discretion during the emergency period, with changes in the net debt burden allowed by local authorities and in the basic school and upper secondary school final exams. The rules on data processing and public information are specified. The draft also includes proposals for amendments to the law which are motivated by an emergency situation but which nevertheless have a permanent character and remain valid under normal circumstances. These are, in particular, changes that allow judicial procedures to be carried out at a distance. There is a permanent proposal to amend the legislation on foreigners. The adoption of the law requires a majority of votes in favour of the composition of the Riigikogu. Next, I will discuss the amendments to the law in more detail. § 1, amendment of the Auxiliary Police Act, the proposal has been submitted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The changes will facilitate the recruitment of new volunteers. To this end, auxiliary police officers are also allowed to undergo a medical check-up with the PBGB at an occupational health care professional in a contractual relationship. At the order of the Director-General of the PBA, it is possible to waive 100 hours of training between the primary level and the secondary level of the police officer. The powers of assistant police officers to assist the police will be broadened to extend the use of specific measures already foreseen for assistance police officers, as the emergency situation requires more flexibility in the involvement of relief police officers where necessary. Support police officers shall be given the right to use the relevant databases to identify the person and, upon order of the police, to force the vehicle to be stopped either by an appropriate barrier or by any other special means. An independent assistant police officer is entitled to apply a stay ban. Independent competence in measures which are particularly detrimental to the fundamental rights of a person, such as the prohibition of stay, the suspension of a vehicle, the identification of identity, the use of databases, applies only in exceptional circumstances and is limited in time. § 2, amendment of the Road Transport Act, submitted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. With the proposed amendment to the Road Transport Act, the Public Road Administration may temporarily renew the professional driver's certificate of competence without the latter completing the corresponding refresher training, as further training is practically not applicable during the emergency period. § 3, Amendment of the Electronic Communications Act, submitted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The amendment of the Electronic Communications Act extends the range of persons whose location data may be processed by a liaison undertaking in order to inform them of an event that endangers life and health and to communicate to them the instructions of the competent authorities for further action. Until now, the communication company operating in Estonia could process only the data of its own customers, but after the changes, the communication company can also process the location data of the customers of foreign communications companies using roaming services in Estonia. The amendment will be implemented retroactively from 12 March 2020, as under the orders of the Head of Emergency, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has, since that date, obliged the communication undertakings to inform customers and roaming users of the emergency situation and to provide instructions to them. § 4, amendment of the Emergency Act, the proposal has been submitted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The draft amends the Emergency Act, the Emergency Act and the Law on Law Enforcement in order to supplement the regulations governing the involvement of the Defence Forces and the Defence Union throughout all laws and to supplement the rights for the application of special measures provided for in the inclusion, in particular the regulation on the application of direct coercion. The draft provides for similar rights for a military officer and an active member of the Defence League to apply specific measures, such as voluntary relief police officers acting under the direction of a police officer. § 5, amendment of the Emergency Act, the proposal has been submitted by the Ministry of the Interior. The amendments concern the processing of personal data and work and service relationships in emergency situations. The emergency head, the emergency head and the designated authority of the emergency head shall be empowered to process data in national databases, including the transfer of data or to grant new rights to access data in the database, where this is strictly necessary to resolve the emergency that caused the emergency. As an example of the current emergency situation, this will allow the Health Board and the PBA, for example, to react more quickly to prevent the spread of infection and to control movement restrictions. The processing of personal data, including special categories of personal data, shall be subject to the principles of the General Data Protection Regulation. § 5, point 2. The amendments lay down, during an emergency, the specificities of the service relationships between officials and staff in order to direct the official and the staff member to another institution in order to carry out their duties, to apply aggregate working time without the consent of the official or staff member and to amend the working time schedule already approved. All social guarantees laid down in the legislation shall be maintained when the official or staff member is sent to another authority to perform their duties. Both when sending to another institution and when applying aggregated working time without consent or when changing the working time scheme, account must be taken of a significant circumstance which may hinder the performance of the obligation. Paragraph 5 (3). The Emergency Act specifies the person's liability for failure to comply with a legal order in the event of an emergency. The amendment clarifies the scope of the punishment so that it is unambiguous and covered by the failure to comply with all possible legal orders provided for in the Emergency Act. Paragraph 5 (4). The regulations for the involvement of the Defence Forces and the Defence League will also be improved throughout the Emergency Act. § 6, Amendment of the Defence Union Act, the proposal has been submitted by the Ministry of Defence. Provision shall be made for members of the Defence League to continue to carry a weapon on the basis of an existing weapons permit with the consent of the Chief of the Defence League or the Chief of Staff if, during an emergency or emergency situation measures, the member of the Defence League is unable to undergo a health check and present a valid medical certificate. § 7, Amendment of Chemical Act, proposal submitted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. With the amendment of the Chemical Act, the Road Administration and the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority may temporarily renew the certificate of competence of the competent person, the safety advisor, who is responsible for the transport of dangerous goods, without undergoing further training. § 8, amendment of the Financial Management Act of the Local Government Unit, submitted by the Ministry of Finance. The amendment will temporarily increase the net debt burden on local authorities. Between 2020 and 2021, the net indebtedness of the local government unit at the end of the accounting year may amount to a difference of 10 times the difference between the income of the main activity of the financial year ended and the expenditure of the main activity, but may not exceed the total income of the main activity of the same accounting year. The proliferation of COVID-19 is also expected to lead to a reduction in tax receipts, such as income tax receipts, which means that an increase in the net debt ceiling is necessary for the smooth execution of investments. The amendment will allow local governments to borrow in order to invest in the recovery of the economy. § 9, Amendment of Law Enforcement Act, the proposal has been submitted by the Ministry of the Interior. The draft amends the Emergency Act, the Emergency Act and the Law on Law Enforcement in order to supplement the regulations governing the involvement of the Defence Forces and the Defence Union throughout all laws and to supplement the rights to apply special measures for inclusion. The draft provides for similar rights of application of specific measures to a military officer and an active member of the Defence League as volunteers acting under the authority of an official. § 10, amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, proposed by the Ministry of Justice. Extend and simplify the regulation of distance hearing of persons, where appropriate, allow for a hearing of witnesses and victims in pre-trial proceedings in the form of a written hearing, allow for the participation of an interpreter in a procedural procedure and at a hearing by means of a technical means, and extend the possibility for the accused and accused persons in criminal proceedings to participate in the hearing in an audiovisual form. It is still important that the right to personal protection must be guaranteed in the case of a video session. The possibility of participating in a district court hearing in an audiovisual form will also be extended, allowing for a temporary protection order to be applied in urgent cases by a regulation of the prosecutor's office, as well as a temporary protection order to be applied as a general rule at the request of the prosecutor or a restraining order drawn up by the prosecutor in urgent cases. Most of the amendments to the criminal proceedings were already planned within the framework of the revision of the previous Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. they had been coordinated and discussed in a wider circle. § 11, amendment of the Traffic Act, proposal submitted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. A person's right to drive shall not be suspended during an emergency and 90 days after the person's medical certificate has expired. A driving licence may also be replaced or exchanged without a medical certificate, but the driver shall not be in possession of diseases or disorders that would prevent him from driving the vehicle. About 12000 drivers and about 4000 professional drivers are affected by the expiry of the medical certificate during the period 16.03.31.05. About 5,000 medical certificates for drivers and about 2000 professional certificates for drivers will expire during the period 1.06. Secondly, according to the amendment, the initial driving licence will not be withdrawn during the emergency period and 90 days thereafter. About 2300 original driving licences expire during the period 16.03.31.05. § 12, amendment of Nature Conservation Act, proposal submitted by the Ministry of the Environment. The amendment gives the Environmental Board greater flexibility to send nature protection notices during an emergency so that it does not involve a concentration of persons in post offices or local authorities. Notices of protection and procedural documents, as well as decisions on protection, permits for the marking of bats and birds and protective responsibilities may be sent to a person by simple letter instead of a registered letter. § 13, Amendment of the Explosives Act, proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. According to the amendment to the Explosives Act, the requirements of a medical certificate shall not apply to explosives, explosives and pyrotechnics when the medical certificate was completed during an emergency or within 30 days of the end of the emergency situation. § 14, amendment of Land Cadastral Act, proposal submitted by the Ministry of the Environment. The amendment postpones the deadline if all land operator licences issued before 1 July 2018 cease to apply regardless of their period of validity. The deadline is now 1 July of this year, with an amendment postponed by 180 days from the end of the emergency situation. § 15, amendment of the Maritime Safety Act, proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. With the amendment of the Maritime Safety Act, during and 90 days after the emergency situation, the Public Road Administration may issue a new certificate for a recreational boat driver without a medical certificate, but the person shall not have any disease or health problems that would prevent him or her from operating a recreational craft. § 16, Amendment of the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases, proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The employer will have the opportunity not to require a medical certificate from an employee who is involved in food handling or animal husbandry or in other specialties where the particularities of the work may contribute to the spread of infectious diseases. Instead of proof, you can limit your employee to a statement that he is healthy. In a situation where the planned provision of health care has been suspended, it is not possible for people to undergo a medical examination or receive the necessary medical certificates. It is also possible to continue working for those whose medical certificate expires in these situations. After an emergency situation has ended, a medical examination and a written medical certificate shall be taken in accordance with normal procedures within 90 days at the latest. The competence of the Health Board will also be improved, adding that the Health Board will contact the infected and their contacts if necessary. This is rather a clarification. The Health Board is also the controller of the Register of communicable diseases under the current law. § 17, amendment of the Victim Assistance Act, proposal submitted by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Victim Assistance Act is supplemented by a provision which allows for concessions to be made in the organisation and safety of victim support services during emergency and emergency or martial law situations, in particular in the qualification and authorisation of persons. It extends the range of persons to whom advisory services may be provided, in particular those directly affected by the emergency response and the staff of institutions assisting people. § 18...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U25	Good minister! The bill is very voluminous, obviously you need more time. How do you assess how much you need about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U26	At least ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U27	Please! You'll have an extra ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U28	Well, I think we're stuck with § 18, amendment of bankruptcy law, and the proposer is the Ministry of Justice. The Bankruptcy Act introduces an amendment suspending the obligation to apply for bankruptcy for the duration of the emergency situation and for two months after the end of the emergency situation. Under current law, the management of a legal person is obliged to file for bankruptcy with the court within 20 days of the insolvency. The amendment suspends the debtor's obligation and the possibility for the creditor to file for bankruptcy. By way of exception, employees who have lost their earnings and who do not receive compensation from the unemployment fund as a special national measure can apply for bankruptcy against the employer. The amendment gives economic operators the opportunity to adapt their economic activities to the situation that has arisen and to make use of the aid measures provided by the State. The amendment will apply to all legal entities, but companies that do not have the prospect of restoring and continuing their economic activity after the end of the emergency situation should, however, file for bankruptcy without delay. Account must also be taken of the fact that, when insolvency has occurred, regardless of the length of time the management board member is required to file for bankruptcy, he or she may, at that time, only carry out the necessary transactions on behalf of the firm. § 19, Act amending the Family Benefits Act, the author of the proposal is the Ministry of the Interior. The current law protects the parents of children born under 2.5 years of age in succession by providing them with the same amount of parental benefit for a later child as for the previous child. The proposed changes will allow the difference between parental benefit and maternity benefit to be paid as soon as the child is born and the parental benefit has been granted for him or her. As a result, the economic situation of families can be mitigated during a period of uncertainty due to coronavir. The bill only changes the payout time and does not entail additional costs for parental benefit. § 20, amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, proposed by the Ministry of Education and Research. First, by amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the Government of the Republic is given the opportunity to change the organisation of final exams. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act provides for compulsory comprehensive school finals and state examinations, the first exams were to take place in April. At the end of the emergency situation, the usual legal requirements for termination apply, but they do not take into account that there has been an exceptional situation in the past. A sufficient preparation period is necessary for the consultation and restoration of the preparedness of the examinations, which can only begin after the emergency situation has ended. The organisation of the examinations depends on when the emergency situation ends. Therefore, amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act will be introduced to decide on the organisation of the final exams at the level of the Government of the Republic. The Ministry of Education and Research is preparing a comprehensive modernisation of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the subject of the exams needs to be re-examined in the discussions on this comprehensive package. The second amendment gives educational institutions the opportunity to use descriptive, word-based assessments which do not need to be converted to a five-ball scale to evaluate teaching during an emergency situation. According to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, comprehensive school is awarded the first and second grade, i.e. 1 to 6. A descriptive, verbal assessment that does not need to be converted into a grade is already being used in the assessment of class 1 students. In the third grade, i.e. 7,9. in class, and in upper secondary school there is currently no such option. The proposed amendment recommends that schools give preference to verbal evaluation during distance learning and does not need to convert word feedback received during distance learning into a grade. § 21, amendment of the Railway Act, amendment of the proposal by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Firstly, during and 90 days after an emergency, a railway worker may perform his duties without a valid medical certificate, but he shall not have any illness or health problems that would prevent him from performing his duties. Secondly, the controller responsible for railway safety and rail traffic management, the driver of the train and the driver of the special rolling stock will be temporarily allowed to carry out their duties without updating the certificate of competency. § 22, Amendment of the Pharmaceutical Act, proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The amendment of the Pharmaceutical Act entitles the Agency, during an emergency, emergency, emergency or martial law, to temporarily restrict the advertising and dispensing of medicinal products and to allow temporary derogations from the requirements for the handling of medicinal products, clinical trials, the provision of safety information and communication. These differences can only be made if (1) they are necessary for the protection of human life and health, (2) compliance with all the requirements laid down would not make it possible to ensure the uninterrupted supply of medicinal products to the general public and to health care institutions. In addition, the Pharmaceutical Act supplements the provision on the location of the branch pharmacy of the General Pharmacy with the aim of enabling the branch pharmacy of the General Pharmacy to be maintained in a district of a city of over 4 000 inhabitants, where the district is geographically distant from the city centre and there is a justified need for access to medicinal products in that area. § 23, Amendment of the Weapons Act. The draft provides that arms licences and licences issued under the Arms Act which expire during an emergency situation, during an emergency situation and 60 days after the end of the emergency situation. The amendment will ensure that the rights of the holders of the weapons permit are preserved until the end of the emergency situation and will then give them a reasonable time to comply with the obligation under the law. Similarly, there is no additional obligation to hand the weapon over to the police during an emergency situation and no additional burden for the PBGB to properly store the weapons. § 24, Amendment of State Secrets and the Secret Foreign Information Act, proposed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. An additional basis shall be included in the law for the extension of the time limit for granting or extending the authorisation of access for reasons of emergency, emergency, enhanced defence readiness or martial law. The possibility to conduct an interview with a person when granting an access authorisation or a processing permit shall be provided only if necessary. In this way, new permits can be issued even during the emergency period. § 25, Amendment of the Guarantee Fund Act, proposed by the Ministry of Finance. The amendment allows the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund to hold meetings and take decisions by electronic means. § 26, amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure and the Act on the Implementation of the Code of Enforcement Procedure; the author of the proposal is the Ministry of Justice. An amendment to the law implementing the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure creates a distinction in the procedure of placing a person in a closed establishment. The limitation period for placing in a closed establishment and for applying extended provisional protection shall be suspended. In the event of an emergency, the court shall also be allowed to extend the application of the provisional remedy without complying with the request for a hearing of a person on the basis of other evidence. § 27, Amendment of the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act. The amendment gives the unemployment fund the discretion to refrain from recovering sums spent by the recipient on the provision of employment services when the recovery situation has arisen due to the economic difficulties arising from the emergency situation. § 28, amendment of the Prisons Act; the author of the proposal is the Ministry of Justice. The Penal Code is complemented by the possibility of imposing a prohibition on a person staying in prison in the event of events directly threatening the overall security of the prison or the execution of imprisonment. § 29, amendment of the Water Act, proposed by the Ministry of the Environment. The amendment of the Water Act will continue to apply to permits governing the specific use of water previously issued. The Environmental Board can mitigate permit requirements if an objective obstacle resulting from an emergency situation does not allow the permit requirements to be met. § 30, amendment of the law granting international protection to an alien, the author of the proposal is the Ministry of the Interior. In an emergency or emergency, an application for international protection may be registered within 10 days, normally within three days. The extension of the deadline saves the resources of the PBGB, and the registration of an application for international protection requires the use of specialised officials and translations. The draft also includes provisions on the draft law amending the right of departure and refusal of entry law pending before the Riigikogu and the law on the granting of international protection to aliens. These provisions allow the court to issue orders in these cases without a descriptive and reasoned part if, because of the objective obstacle and exceptionally high number of detention requests, the court cannot review the application for detention in the normal manner. § 31, Amendment of Aliens Act, proposed by the Ministry of the Interior. The aim is to solve the unavoidable problems of an emergency situation, whether they occur during an emergency or arise directly from it. We allow for legalisation of the stay of foreigners who are prevented from returning to their home country. In addition, we allow the visa or visa-free stay of an alien to be revoked if the main purpose of his or her stay is to work and he or she remains unemployed. The aim of the amendment is to avoid a situation where an unemployed alien stays purposelessly in Estonia and spends money that he can use to leave Estonia if his departure is not prevented. We will also see in advance the termination of the stay on the basis of an alien's application. The amendment allows the International Organisation for Migration to provide support to foreigners wishing to return home voluntarily. For foreigners who were unable to return to their country of origin during an emergency, we promise to apply for a long-stay visa from the PBGB after the emergency situation has ended. If a person fulfils the conditions for obtaining a long-stay visa and has an employer, there is no interest in the state that there will be a large number of illegally staying persons in Estonia after the end of the emergency situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U29	An extra three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U30	Oh, thank you! We allow the Government of the Republic to extend the term of employment in Estonia for a short period of time to two years instead of one year. Granting such an exemption will support business continuity in an emergency situation where foreign workers with the necessary skills cannot be involved across borders, but those with the relevant skills are present in the country. We provide that the registration of short-term employment ends automatically if an alien is refused a visa and has no other legal basis for his or her stay or if the employer registers an alien's cessation of employment in the register of employment. So far, the PBGB itself has formalised decisions to cancel registration of short-term employment if an alien is not entitled to enter or work here. So we will save the PBA resource with the change. § 32, amendment of the obligation of departure and prohibition of entry Act, proposed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The processing by the PBGB will be carried out in a non-discriminatory manner. A departure order and a refusal of entry decision can be taken together with a decision to refuse or terminate a visa, i.e. a so-called three-to-one decision. This reduces the workload of courts, as decisions can be challenged and reviewed together. We shall ensure that, in an emergency or emergency, a well cannot be submitted to the PBA after this decision. In practice, there are no cases in which an alien would not have challenged the letter of departure submitted to him in the administrative court. Therefore, a procedure shall be put in place where the person must immediately apply to the courts. § 33, amendment of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure; the author of the proposal is the Ministry of Justice. The regulation of remote interrogation of persons shall be extended and simplified and the questioning of witnesses and victims in pre-trial proceedings shall, where appropriate, be conducted in the form of a written hearing. The application of the temporary protection order shall be granted in cases of urgency by a regulation of the prosecutor's office, as well as the application of the temporary protection order as a general rule in an application by the prosecutor or in an urgent case by a restraining order drawn up by the prosecutor. According to the current law, a restraining order may only be authorised by a court. The participation of an interpreter in a procedural procedure and at a hearing shall be provided by a technical means. In criminal proceedings, the possibility for the accused person and the person subject to the proceedings to take part in the hearing shall be extended in an audiovisual form. Finally, the possibility of attending a district court hearing in an audiovisual form will be extended. Thank you for your attention. I am sorry that I had to read these amendments very quickly, but paragraph 33 required this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U31	Thank you. Yes, a very good achievement! But now all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to submit two oral questions, one minute long, to the next, to the committee rapporteur. First Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U32	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm gonna start with the law of an assistant police officer who named this package of legislative changes. The amendment to this law aims to facilitate recruitment as an assistant police officer during an emergency situation, for example, so that there is no need to pass a hundred-hour internship with the professional police. My question is how to ensure that people recruited are prepared for work and have the personal qualities necessary for their work. Can you explain this a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U33	Thank you for your question. As regards 100 hours of preparation, it is primarily intended that before an assistant police officer becomes a "second-level assistant police officer" or the right to work independently without being directly guided by a police officer, in normal circumstances, a 100-hour internship with a police officer must be preceded by this second-level entitlement. This requirement has now been relaxed, but only by the time an emergency or emergency situation has been put in place, and such so-called relief can only be provided by the Director General of the PB. But, of course, if a person goes on to perform his or her duties, particularly where the fundamental rights or freedoms of persons must be potentially restricted, so-called power is used, documents are checked, identity is established, then the principle that the person is prepared, he or she knows what his or her rights are and what his or her powers are. This is for two reasons: on the one hand, for the protection of ordinary citizens, and, on the other hand, for the protection of the same assistant police officer himself, so that he does not go beyond his powers or commit an offence.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U34	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U35	Minister, thank you for your thorough review. I am asking the question of the explanatory memorandum on page 67 on the law on the prevention and control of communicable diseases. I don't expect you to be able to answer the substantive question in this area, but with such a sober peasant's mind, maybe you can help me. As you said at the beginning, all the changes are due to the common main objective, the emergency situation, the problems that have arisen in solving it. I understand that when medical certificates are brought to an end under the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases, people can continue to work during an emergency. I understand. But how can it be that a person goes to work and is not obliged to take a medical certificate or even a test or a test? We currently have areas where such people are going to work, such as food management, care facilities, kindergartens. Indeed, they sign that they're not infected or anything, but how is it possible that they go to work without a medical certificate or, at least, I don't know, without a virus test? This could lead to worse problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U36	Yes, indeed, such a proposal is made and precisely because it is an emergency situation or an emergency situation. This situation is significantly different from the normal situation in which we follow and comply with all the rules that we have laid down, even though the rules that we ourselves have laid down, come from the European Union, with the utmost precision. But there are certainly cases where it is not possible to do so, because then some important service may be missed by the population, for example, the availability of the same food may be severely restricted. And here's where you're going to consider which or which service is more important. Is it that people should not suffer from hunger, or that the employer, using the maximum variety of personal protective equipment, avoids possible transmission of infection, while also hoping for the individual's own responsibility, can do this work? Consequently, this proposal has been proposed. Emergency or emergency situations are exceptional, and martial law does not apply. In certain places, you just have to make a little relief.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U37	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U38	Minister, thank you very much. It seems that the Riigikogu has never seen a similar bill before. All of this would be understandable if this bill were not, I think, at least a dozen amendments to the law that have no connection with the emergency situation. But my question concerns the suspension of the obligation to file for bankruptcy. I believe that this is a rather controversial proposal. I understand that it may, in certain cases, protect the interests of businesses, but it also has the other side of it that will certainly harm the interests of creditors. And it certainly harms the interests of companies that, without knowing that in fact, Company A is essentially insolvent, since A has not made a statement on this, others do not have this information, they enter into contractual relations with that company. Rather, it could have remained the discretion of the court to grant, in certain cases, an extension in order to overcome insolvency, but not to give a priori everyone such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U39	Thank you. One of the reasons for this change is related to the same subject matter of the courts. Today, in fact, there are quite a number of areas of life, entrepreneurship, where the risk of bankruptcy is very likely. In particular, those relating to tourism are accommodation, it is catering, it is the maintenance of tourist sites, the organisation of travels, but not only. Similarly, the transport sector has also been hit very hard, not only by tourism-related transport, but by transport in general. It is very likely that one or the other company or the entire industry will be in serious risk of bankruptcy. The aim is to avoid that, once the emergency situation passes, the crisis will pass, the same companies will no longer be able to be competitive and continue to operate in the business landscape. One of the reasons why this amendment was proposed, when you refer to the courts, was that, in a crisis situation, where judicial proceedings are still complicated in some respects, today, court proceedings have largely been transferred to written procedures or to video procedures, the burden on the courts would not exponentially increase, so that afterwards they would not be able to cope with the procedure on time. These have been the aspects or the starting points on which they are based. In fact, the occurrence of these same malicious or criminal bankruptcies is also a reality today. They're coming. The situation today, too, and the rules that apply today, do not in any way preclude fraudulent bankruptcies. Will these malicious bankruptcies increase as a result of this change? We can see that after all, but above all, this change should still provide assistance to a large number of entrepreneurs who, in serious faith, want to restore their business after the crisis has passed. At least I believe it. And this is still a legislative amendment proposed by so-called professionals.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U40	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U41	Thank you. The amendments to the Aliens Act in this draft presently create a situation where, when a third-country worker's contract of employment ends for some reason, the State immediately has the right to invalidate the basis for his or her stay and to send him or her out immediately. This situation causes us to be forced by people, to have people whose stay depends on their employer's discretion, or to give the employer a certain number of workers with fewer rights. As a result, hiring people in Estonia who have more rights will definitely decrease. This creates problems between workers, and this certainly will not help our labour market. Is it not meant that a person could still be given the right, for example, for at least a month to find another job, another employer, an honest employer, so that we do not create workers with different rights in the labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U42	Thank you for your question. Yes, indeed, such a hypothetical possibility that we have so-called abusive employers who, figuratively speaking, are going to enslave this third-country worker, and this worker now, out of fear of being expelled, agrees with these degrading working conditions, we did not consider this draft during the discussion in the Government of the Republic. But I believe that setting a deadline would perhaps make sense. If, between the first and second readings, the Committee on Legal Affairs is now considering these proposals, it is certainly worth considering that some minimum legal protection should be given to these third-country workers. And precisely because there really is an employer who is very malicious to an employee and does not respect our laws absolutely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U43	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is indeed very disturbing how many legislative amendments in this draft have no connection to the crisis. Even this losing or releasing comprehensive school finals is extremely disturbing. But what I wanted to ask you about is the law on the financial management of a local government unit. This will be changed with the aim of allowing local authorities to borrow more. In the past it was possible to take the six-fold annual result rate and not more than the overall result of the core business, but it was now amended and 10 times the revenue rate of the core business was allowed to increase the net debt burden. But § 8 contradicts two paragraphs: one says 'ten', the other says'six'. If you read in the explanatory memorandum, you still have the feeling that there are ten intended. So how's that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U45	I count one is ten and the other is six. It's got to get really close. I can't get it here that fast. Yes, well, the principle of why this was done is that, during the same crisis, the income base of local authorities will potentially decrease significantly, even if it is due to a reduction in income tax, which represents a relatively large part of the local government's income base, and now also the part that cannot be compensated or covered by the Equalisation Fund. Therefore, local authorities should be given the opportunity to increase the loan burden so that, as is known, the local government makes similar investments and, for example, orders services from businesses, they can also keep local businesses and service providers alive. That is the purpose of this whole change. However, as regards the fact that there are a lot of laws or proposals here that have nothing to do with the crisis situation, I cannot quite agree with that. And not with the evidence that you referred to the PGS. In fact, these changes are directly due to this crisis situation, because it is not possible to take these final exams today. There's a crisis situation. The kids are in video, the kids are at home, there's no work at school. After all, this is a perfectly adequate reason to change the procedure and to move the exams to another time. And as far as I know, this matter was also discussed in the Committee on Culture today, and if, in the past, this right had been transferred indefinitely to the Government of the Republic, now, according to my information, at least in the Committee on Culture, it was still agreed that it would apply for the 2019/20 and 2020/21 academic years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U46	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U47	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question concerns the point on page 3 of this draft, namely the processing of personal data in emergency situations. With this law, you want to add Article 261 to it. This concerns me when I read it together with the Personal Data Protection Act, as it also concerns the wider processing of special types of personal data, including the wider processing of health data. Do I understand this paragraph correctly that Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, for example, will have the right to request Tehnik access to human health data, and he might even say that such access would be given to his advisor, this is what I read out of the last word? One more question: does this concern all databases, including, for example, the tracking information system? And the most fundamental question for you, as Minister of Justice, was consideration also given to alternatives which are less damaging to fundamental human rights? What kind? And what position was reached as to why they were not implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U48	Thank you for your question. Yes, indeed, today it is very clear that each database has its own owner, its own processor, its own controller. The data set of the basic Regulation provides very clearly who has the right to receive and process data from that database and who does not. Now that we are dealing with an emergency situation or an emergency situation, we are quite rightly facing situations where other people may also have to get some data. When we talk about TECHNOLOGY in relation to health data, this amendment cannot be interpreted or treated in such a way that all health data relating to one person are available to an official or to the emergency manager. This data is still available to the extent and to the extent necessary to ensure emergency measures or to remedy the emergency situation. Let's talk medical records. If a person has been diagnosed with a corona virus and has been subjected to a two - week self - isolation obligation, it is necessary for a police officer or an auxiliary police officer to check whether he really is in self - isolation at home to see if he or she is in self - isolation. In that case, the only reasonable need to obtain health data is due to the fact that it has a corona virus. There is no reasonable need for data to be obtained as to whether he has any other disease. Data is needed to ensure compliance with the regime. And that's quite a reasonable need. However, all this processing of data must still be based on the General Data Protection Regulation. Today, the European Commission is also giving further clarification, in particular, on the processing of data and the possible relief in relation to the processing of data in relation to combating and dealing with a pandemic. So, in fact, other Member States of the European Union are also facing the same question; Estonia is not unique here. Once again, yes: in order for the relevant authorities to be able to carry out their tasks efficiently, it is necessary to extend the range of persons who receive personal data from one database or another in order to process them for a very specific and narrow purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U49	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U50	Thank you. My question concerns the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. A remote interrogation was known to be possible only in the case of witnesses. This law has now been amended in this package so that it concerns all persons. As you know, if you are suspected of being interrogated in criminal proceedings, you have the right to a lawyer, and the witness does not have that right. Now it is simply lightly exchanged in this § 69 against the identity of the witness, which actually significantly limits the fundamental rights of people. If they are suspected, they have the right to a lawyer, as well as other rights that come from the Code of Criminal Procedure, including the fact that in the past a remote hearing was possible only if the person himself consented to it, it has now been deleted. What is the reason why these rights have been deprived of people by this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U51	This is indeed a change which is not of a temporary nature and which will continue even after the state of emergency has ended. These changes have been developed with different interest groups, they have already been discussed during the preparation of the KrMS review. And these same changes have been supported in various areas, whether from the prosecutors, from the barrister's office, from the courts or from the proceedings. They have also found understanding and support outside the justice system. In certain cases, they need to be done. But the basic principle is indeed that the right of defence must be guaranteed. No matter how the interrogation takes place, the right of defence must be guaranteed. This is the basic principle of the procedure, which guarantees the right to protection. But it is possible for the legislator to lay down the form in which he must be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U52	Urve Tiidus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U53	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment of the Emergency Act aims to create specialities in the processing of personal data and to solve some of the tasks created by the special circumstances. This means that basically, someone's personal data may be processed for a completely different purpose than they were collected, and the data subject may, to his surprise, discover that, oh, they have been used for a completely different reason. In the Commission, I asked you to give an example of when this distinction might be used. You said that, for example, you can search the educational database for all people who have received medical education or medical education and then involve them in the emergency response process. Does this mean that there will still be another form of volunteering like this, I would hate to say that an order or a coercion, but something like that? Please explain this!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U54	Thank you. Indeed, I have given this example, in addition to what I have just said about monitoring self-insulation. The introduction of an emergency situation, in accordance with the Emergency Act, is already an opportunity today to apply the obligation to work. And if the country really is in trouble, health care is in trouble, as we see today, this evil virus has gone into our hospitals and nursing homes, and there is no more staff, but there is still work to be continued in hospitals and nursing homes, it is entirely justified to look at who are qualified people who do not work in their specialty. The data on these people can be extracted from this educational database and directed to other jobs. But, of course, we understand that this must still be a very extreme situation, a situation in which our medical staff has ceased to be able to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U55	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U56	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear waitress, I have a question about § 26 of the draft, concerning the implementation of the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement Procedure. The topic here is the suspension of the deadline for placing in a closed facility. According to this draft, the time limit for placing in a closed establishment will be suspended at the moment when there is an emergency situation and will end when it can be assumed that the emergency situation has ended or when it has actually ended. My question is that since, in essence, we are holding a person in a closed establishment or facility longer than prescribed, and this person is not in a position to stand up for himself or to protect himself or herself, it is likely that he or she will also receive medication during this period, how will the fundamental rights of that person be protected during this period. We cannot imagine at the moment how long this special situation could be, and we cannot rule out that instead of one year a person will be in a closed institution for example for two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U57	Yes, there are different safeguards, which are applied both when placed in a closed establishment and when the annual deadline expires, if it is necessary to re-evaluate whether or not it is necessary to continue in a closed establishment. Under normal circumstances, it is foreseen that the judge will attend and meet this particular person and will satisfy himself that the detention is justified for the purposes of judicial review or judicial supervision. He or she has the right to listen to this person, to have access to the medical records, to see the doctor and to receive this information. But now that it is really not possible to do this direct meeting due to an emergency or emergency, the court can formulate this decision on the basis of other evidence as well, these are statements from the treating physician or other documentation. This is a fundamental amendment to this section.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U58	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U59	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. My question also concerns the auxiliary police. I quote the Chancellor of Justice's position on 24 August 2018: 'Improving the role of police officers in ensuring internal security can only be a supportive and helpful measure that does not replace direct action by state authority. " Now, with this amendment to the law, the family doctor will be excluded from the health check for auxiliary police officers. The cadets of the Academy of Home Defence are currently allowed to go to work as a police officer only after two years of preparation, so that the preparation should still be significant for auxiliary police officers. And thirdly, there will be plenty more powers, including decisions and actions made independently. I am thinking of independent decisions and actions, not those made with a police officer. It's all pretty worried. How many of these relief policemen are going to be raised in emergency situations? Ten, one hundred, one thousand?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U60	Thank you for your question. Now, that's how big this number is, I'm gonna owe you an answer. The Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board should be able to explain more precisely what this real need is. Indeed, there are certain concessions here, but for example the same medical check you referred to in addition to the family doctor, this certificate may also be issued by an occupational health care professional who is contracted with the Police and Border Guard Board. In fact, it is the occupational health doctor in a contractual relationship who periodically checks and decides whether a person is capable and suitable for police tasks. So I don't see a problem in this regard if he can assess the health status and ability of a real policeman to perform duties, then why should he not be able to assess the health of an assistant police officer? I don't think it's much of a problem. As regards the shortening of learning, the reduction of these hours, indeed, there may even be a hypothetical risk here. But, as I said before, in order to be able to direct a person to an independent job to carry out tasks that restrict the freedoms of a citizen, he must be prepared for this work in any way, at least he must have theoretical preparation. Otherwise, we can put both parties, both the citizen and the person performing this task at risk. And these additional tasks, these additional rights are the verification of the accuracy of personal data from databases, such as the population register, which is § 32 (5) of the Law Enforcement Act or the European Union registers established under the Law. Then comes § 45 (5) concerning the compulsory suspension of a vehicle and § 44, concerning the prohibition of stay. They have very clear frameworks in place, for example, a stay ban may only apply for a period of one hour. All these three additional rights exist only during an emergency or emergency situation. Under normal circumstances, an assistant police officer does not have these rights. These rights shall end when the emergency situation is brought to an end.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U61	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! My question concerns the amendment of the law on foreigners, § 31, and the use of foreign labour and its possible stay and extension. Paragraph 31 (5) complements the mandate rule so that the Government of the Republic is given the opportunity to decide on the need to stay here and for how long. I still have not understood why the government could not adopt a uniform and clear law for farmers, which would allow this season to extend the possibility of working for foreigners who already exist in this country until the end of the season. We know that there is no new workforce now, and the food industry and the food sector are an important area.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U63	Thank you for your question. The food industry is certainly a very important sector. There are, in some ways, two changes, which were previously the subject of the question. One danger is that people will be expelled and forced to work like this, as people can be forced to work cheaper. But the other side is, indeed, that in these sectors, or in these cases, if the labour deficit of their own labour force, or Estonian residents, is very large and noticeable, strong and tangible, it is also possible to extend the working time of workers from third countries in order to keep a sector such as agriculture alive. But, above all, the direction is still being taken to allow jobs for those who have lost their jobs. The unemployment relief measure must be targeted primarily at its own inhabitants. Unemployment has already increased quite significantly, but it seems to be growing further, and this measure is one way of guaranteeing jobs for its people, the people of Estonia. And once again, if there really is not enough of your people, it is also possible to grant third-country workers longer work permits. This change does not apply to European Union citizens, it is for third-country nationals.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U64	Toomas Kivimägi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U65	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Several colleagues in this Chamber have repeatedly criticised the fact that there are a number of things in this cluster bill that have no connection with the emergency situation. As Minister of Justice, you should, above all, stand for good lawmaking practice, unfortunately, I believe that this is very clearly and quite grossly violated. Let me give you a few examples, because you have claimed that this is not the case. § 4, amendment of the Emergency Act. The emergency situation and the emergency situation are two completely different things; the first has no connection with the emergency situation. We don't have an emergency situation today. Another example is the amendment of the Family Benefits Act, which is essentially a well-founded and long-spoken necessary change, but there is no connection to the state of emergency. Of course, if you want to look for a loss of income, you'll find some kind of connection. Or the introduction of the same written statement once again, I do not dispute in essence, but I believe that if these are permanent and lasting changes, they should not be part of this bill but should be discussed separately later.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U66	There was no question, but if the minister wishes, you can still answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U67	To comment so much, I think that this proved to be true, perhaps in a very minimal part. Indeed, for example, the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The amendments will also remain in my report, but they will certainly be very relevant in today's situation, in the emergency situation. In my opinion, it would be rather comic and unreasonable if we were to make a change now during the emergency period, set a time limit and then start dealing with the exact same amendment with some of the next drafts that would already be of a 'permanent nature'. This change would be completely, one hundred percent authentic with what we are doing today. Does that make sense? On the one hand, this would be a double burden on a particular ministry, a particular authority. On the other hand, it would be a burden on the Government of the Republic and, thirdly, on the Riigikogu if we were to deal with the same thing twice in the Riigikogu. That's one side. If I look at § 4, it does not only change the law on the state of emergency, but it actually extends very clearly to the law on law enforcement. The aim, after all, is to harmonise the activities of the Defence Forces and the active members of the Defence League with the powers of the Assistant Police Officers, so to speak, to bring them to the same threshold that if they are involved in solving an emergency or emergency situation, the law is already ready to involve them with the same powers and to the same extent as the auxiliary police.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U68	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U69	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I, too, would ask about the inclusion of § 26 in the Emergency Act, 'processing of data in the Data Collection', which gives the data collection the right of access and the right of processing and transmission of data. I am fully informed in favour of decision-making, and there is no doubt that, in an emergency, data is needed, data is urgently needed, maybe the type of data that is not used under normal circumstances is needed. But in this case there is no comprehension of this kind of indiscriminately given, well-wide right, who is considering, when is considering, when is justified by the use of an exception, who later controls, which data has been used and whether they have been used in a targeted way. Giving such a broad right without any control or monitoring mechanisms seems to me to be completely incomprehensible. So far, we have been very careful about health records, for example, a clinical psychologist who accepts outside the hospital cannot access the patient's medical history. How are we going to make such a capital change now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U70	Yeah, well, difficult times require difficult decisions. In fact, today, if this information is needed, it has to be done quite creatively in order to create some kind of legal basis to enable the law enforcement or supervisory body to obtain the information it needs in order to monitor it. But the principle of any kind of data processing is, after all, this, especially when it is extended to the outside, the way we put it in the control mechanism. We have the Data Protection Inspectorate, who is a special control body, who looks at how data has been used in one case or another. If, for example, we are talking about the current coronal apandemia, it is clear that the Police and Border Guard Board or the police officer will not dismantle all the databases in Estonia and ask for data from all the databases. It is very clear that it is still asking for information on the collections that are very directly linked to the situation. And once the data has been obtained from them, the Data Protection Inspectorate can do it after supervision and not only afterwards, it can do it on a rolling basis, because we do not have a war situation, all our authorities are working, they keep going with full steam. However, the principle of the minimality of data processing or data acquisition is important: only as much data is obtained as is strictly necessary for the performance of the task, and no more. How am I gonna explain this differently? We have a supervisory body, and if this principle is respected, the purpose of the law, the objective set, is fulfilled.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U71	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U72	Thank you. Colleagues have described the Emergency Act in terms of the protection of personal data. But I'm watching the amendment of the Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. In fact, referring to a situation far from the emergency situation or a similar situation, the new wording of the Health Board has given the task, among other things, of contacting infected and contact persons when necessary and of supervising the implementation of control measures in case of group illness. This means that the Health Board is given the right to access personal data, contact details, as well as diagnoses and contact data with whom it has been exposed. It is, in fact, a very wide-ranging provision of personal data and it is not limited to an emergency situation. Why has this been done and how does it meet data protection requirements?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U73	What's the paragraph? [[There's an answer in the hall.]] Okay, I'll try to find my papers. It's §16 (2), you're referring to it, right? Paragraph 18 (1) (1) is amended and worded as follows: As you point out, this is not a specific reference to an emergency situation, but that in normal circumstances, when it comes to infections, the occurrence of communicable diseases, the Health Board may receive these data. Yeah, well, I don't know, I'm not medically qualified. Perhaps other cases have been mentioned here, unless an emergency situation has been announced, for example, when we have a massive flu season that we have every year or something else. It is primarily designed to enable the Health Board to instruct people how to avoid group sickness, how to keep their health in order not to put themselves at risk. The Health Board will also provide information on the application of control measures. But he is not monitoring in the sense that we were talking earlier about the supervision of the law enforcement body, whether the regime is being respected. It's such a proactive side, coaching-teaching way to keep yourself and others from getting sick. I really do not know if, even if we do not have a special situation, such large, massive illnesses, the Health Board is in itself a completely adequate institution or institution that should, by definition, be responsible for introducing public health measures and informing people. Now, the question is whether it is doing this "generally through the media" or whether it is doing so in a targeted way to a particular group, where these infectious and contact conditions have been in order to prevent further spread of infection among them. Yeah, I don't know about that. In this regard, the Committee on Legal Affairs should assess whether to include an emergency measure or whether, at the time of other massive infections, the Health Board may have the opportunity to do this work and bear the responsibility for ensuring public health.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U74	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U75	Thank you. At present, the government has a double responsibility not to abuse this confidence as a crisis-free period or as an advance. If you have asked us to adopt urgent measures to combat the crisis, it is completely inappropriate to include, as a 'brezhnev package', laws that are not necessarily linked to the resolution of the crisis. A number of examples could be asked, and some have already been touched by colleagues. I would ask why you put a number of important sectors of the economy under further attack by the restrictions on the employment of foreigners. I find it particularly strange that the government wants to decide on individual cases. Do you really not have more urgent work to do now than to decide on the presence of every alien in Estonia at government level?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U76	Thank you for your question. I didn't quite understand what you meant when you said that some of the sectors would be hit again. Generally speaking, those who have a residence permit and work on it are working on it. Here is an additional measure that, if there is indeed a very large shortage of labour, this authorisation may exceptionally be extended. Otherwise, a year's short-term work permit will be granted, but now it can be extended to up to two years. On the other hand, it is possible to release jobs from the Estonian population for unemployed people in order to protect the labour market in certain cases, but I understand that this is rather a hypothetical solution or a hypothetical option proposed. I don't think anyone here is going to go through them one by one, whether they're farmers from Ukraine or Belarus, or wherever they're going to work and decide, one by one, who's going to be expelled and who's going to stay. It's relatively unlikely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U77	Urmas Kruuse, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I was not satisfied with your answer, just as the agricultural sector has not been satisfied. What you have referred to, in fact, you have failed to mention that this law will only apply in this case, too, the government's standard of authority, if an average salary of around EUR 1407 is guaranteed, which, for example, in the gardening sector is much higher than that possible. Perhaps the question is that the government has created an illusion that this spring Estonians will be working in the agricultural sector for spring work. This does not make sense, also in view of the fact that labour market measures are today more of a job support and a two-month perspective. Please tell me why you do not want to give this sector a temporary sensible solution in order not to pay more crisis money later on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U79	Thank you for your question. But there's nothing to be taken from this sector. We're not letting people in Estonia today anyway. We've closed our borders, and those who come will be quarantined for two weeks. I don't know how many people from third countries there are who want to come mass to our plow jobs, knowing that, first of all, they can't get in, and if they get in here somehow, they have to go into quarantine for two weeks. Nothing's actually been taken away. This situation is exactly the same as it's always been. And the fact that now the people of Estonia, who are going to be unemployed, are not in any way willing to reprofiltrate any other work, well, that is a statement. [[Someone's commenting on the floor.]] No, where is it for two months? Two months are today foreseen for this labour market support measure. But it has not yet been decided whether or not a measure will go on later. After all, people need to start earning a living and going to work. But if there is no longer a sector, or if it is not possible to get a job in this sector, where he worked in the past, he will find a new place to work in order to earn a living. And why couldn't it be agriculture?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U80	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U81	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm coming back to the improvements to the bankruptcy law. Certainly, bankruptcy proceedings through court are not the first preference for settling disputes. And there are certainly a very large number of companies that have been hit hard in this crisis and who need protection because their payment difficulties are of a temporary nature. However, the same is true for a number of companies whose permanent insolvency occurred before the crisis and for whom it is perhaps the most appropriate time to start proceedings. Right now, as I understand it, a complete moratorium is being announced to the court for filing for bankruptcy. Why can't the court have the discretion that we initiate proceedings for this company, not for another company?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U82	Thank you for your question. Like I said, if the goal is malicious bankruptcy, it will be done. This has also been done in the past, under the current regime, the companies have been discharged and the creditors will have nothing to gain from it. The fact that the current situation is somehow amplifying the situation of malicious bankruptcies does not appear to exist. However, it will provide an additional opportunity to restart its business once the crisis situation has been over, so that the two weeks after the closure of the emergency situation, the situation has returned to normal, so that some economic activity can be developed. However, it is very clear here that when we talk about these so-called honest or law-abiding entrepreneurs, those who see that they do not really come out with their economic activity after the crisis has ended are not prohibited from making a statement. This is a mere assumption that if honest entrepreneurs see that they have a bankruptcy situation and do not come out of it, they will submit an application, as in normal circumstances, for 20 days from the onset of insolvency. It's the same situation here when we're talking about law-abiding. When we talk about non-law-abiding, nothing changes here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U83	Riina Sikkut, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U84	Thank you. I'll continue accessing the databases and processing the data. I would like to see an example of a situation where the implementation of this amendment to the law is necessary. If we cannot come up with any example of where this amendment is to be implemented, then obviously there is no need to amend the law either. In this example, where a policeman goes to check that a person adheres to the isolation rules, the policeman does not need access to a database containing health data, does not need to process or transmit such data. The policeman only needs to know the fact that the person must be isolated, and this information is provided by the health information system, either every morning or in real time, to the police information system. It's a list of people who have to follow the rules of isolation. A policeman doesn't need to know if a person has been diagnosed with a virus, if he has a suspected infection, if he has been in contact with a person suspected of being infected. All he needs to know is the fact that a person has to follow the rules of isolation. Therefore, this amendment is not necessary in the present case. But what is the situation where access to the database is necessary and the law should be amended?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U85	Thank you for your question. Well, here's where we disagree. I'm sure the policeman needs to know what possible dangers lie ahead. He cannot simply be told to check, see if this person is at home without being informed in advance, whether this is simply a person who has come to Estonia when crossing the border, who has signed that he is at home for two weeks, or whether this is a contact that is hypothetically contagious or dangerous, or is a sick person. The health of police officers must also be maintained and they need preliminary information on what awaits them. Another example we have given was that of finding possible additional health professionals. If the same or more rapid progress is made in our health care system that the virus goes in there to hospitals, nursing homes, then it is necessary to get the corresponding data somewhere so that additional staff can be assigned or recruited there. Well, you can find a few more of these vital problems here, but there's definitely no mass. And that is why I am saying that there is no reason to blindly see here any huge risk of personal data being abused. After all, the processor of the database or the owner of the database can assess very clearly whether information on the request is required or not. If the data controller sees that the police, or anyone else, I do not know who it might be, such as a defence ally, really uses its power maliciously, then he will be able to contact the Data Protection Inspectorate and ask whether the request is justified or not. In certain cases, there is a need to obtain this data and to process these data. It's not massive or widespread, but it does exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U86	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U87	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm going to the amendment of the Emergency Act, § 5 (3). The explanatory memorandum only says one thing and suggests that a similar list is given under the Emergency Act. But now it's about yourself. In particular, an official and an employee may, without his or her consent, be sent to another authority outside his or her normal place of employment during an emergency, to perform the task referred to in subsection 1 of this section, which is to be sent by order to elsewhere. And then there are exclusionary circumstances when it cannot be done, and there is a list of them. For this list only reference is made to the Emergency Act that there is a similar list. But when I look at this list in my previous reply you talked about living situations, it is this that creates those living situations where it is not really possible to determine whether a person has been released or not, because no other law knows the terminology such as this list. We know that we have a part-time employee...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U88	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U89	The question is how it will be implemented. It's not applicable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U90	Are you referring to paragraph 6? Is § 33 above marked 1 paragraph 6? Those exceptions which are not possible.... [[???S. Riisalo täpsustab saalist: 'Sest nende erandite sõnastused ei ole kooskõlas teiste seadustega. Kust need erandid tulevad?'???]] Where do they come from? They're listed here. (S. Riisalo specifies the floor.). I don't understand what you're saying. Do you want to extend or shorten this list? (S. Riisalo: 'I want it to be in accordance with...').
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U91	Thank you. Now it's time for the discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U92	I'm saying it's consistent. If the law provides for a list, it is a list provided by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U93	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U94	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about § 31, point 3, which has already been the subject of questions before, and which was also examined by my colleague, Mr Rõivas. If the alien's work ends or is finished, his or her stay will actually end early. You pointed out that there was no need to resolve individual cases here and that it did not seem to have a negative effect on farmers who have been most concerned about this today. But the law says that the period of stay will end as soon as the situation has arrived, so we have to deal with individual cases here. These people, as I understand it, cannot find other jobs in the same area. And so is the concern of the farmers who have expressed this concern today. Is this still not a too restrictive and too rigid approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U95	This is, on the one hand, a measure of labour market protection; it is, in itself, a listable and understandable measure. And, on the other hand, this is a measure to reduce the burden on our social system if we do not leave these people to social welfare, people from third countries who have arrived here and then lost their jobs. After all, in one way or another, the state must somehow keep them alive when they have lost their jobs and no more income. They may even have a work visa, but what do we do with them if they don't have a job?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U96	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U97	Thank you! I will also continue my previous question concerning the processing of data. You are talking about what national needs are in this situation. It is all understandable that national needs may be. Although the two concrete examples you gave us are unfortunately not adequate, so do not speak any more foolishly. Whether a person is in contact or identified as a sick person, a policeman will hopefully use the same safety precautions because both can be infectious. And indeed, in that case, the policeman does not really need access to the health information system. But my previous question was, in what way are the fundamental rights of people guaranteed, and has the Ministry of Justice or the Government considered other, less damaging possibilities for fundamental rights, which would ensure the operational performance of national tasks on the one hand and less fundamental data processing on the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U98	Thank you. No, these principles, which are provided for, exist in this law and there are no additional principles here. They are the same: necessity, minimality, objectivity, justification. These are the principles by which health data are processed. Well, let's give another example. We have a scientific council set up, and maybe they also need some health data to make predictions about the possible spread of the virus and to produce models at which place, in which area, with what intensity, how many people are sick, how seriously sick are they? Maybe you don't need to personalize this data, but they can get the general data. Any mathematician who's making some kind of mathematical model here, I assume that under normal circumstances he doesn't have access to the health data system. Well, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U99	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U100	Thank you. I hope that, as Minister of Justice, you will still perceive the difference between getting access to the specific medical history of the citizen X and knowing that the population of male persons aged 40 to 50 has such diseases and diseases. There's a big difference. And as far as I know, mathematicians don't want to get close to everyone's personal information. This is a very fundamental distinction. But my question once again concerns a point that is not only related to the time of crisis, but also to the final exams of basic school. The government came up with a plan to get rid of comprehensive school finals. It is now as if the Commission is convinced that this could be limited to a few years. Although it also fails to understand why we should do so for more than one year. My question is very simple: why has this point gone beyond the time that this particular crisis is going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U101	Thank you. Well, it is clear that, as far as the 2019/20 academic year is concerned, the completion of the final exams is very disrupted and certainly cannot take place in the normal way. The question now is to what extent they can take place, whether during the summer period or during the autumn period, and whether or not all students who pass these final exams will be able to take their exams this year. And because maybe parts can be made and maybe no one can do it, we don't know how long this special situation and the limitations and distractions that are due to it may be going on, this change will be extended with a foresight to the next year, so that, for example, students who will not be able to pass their exams this year or this calendar year will be able to do it by 2020/21. in the academic year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U102	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U103	Thank you. I'd like to clarify my question. Farmers have said several times that the same amendment, § 31 (3), according to which, as soon as the contract of employment is concluded here for foreigners, their basis for stay and outside workers cannot be introduced, but these are specific jobs, which may not be suitable for people who are unemployed in Estonia today, are a place of concern for them. And if such an amendment is made, it can be read here that as soon as the contract of employment ends, § 52 of the Aliens Act is impervious, as is § 78, which talks about the end of the visa, i.e. as soon as the assumption that the contract of employment will end, the period of stay will automatically end and it will not be possible for this alien to start hunting for another job. Isn't that a little restrictive? Can't there be a margin of discretion here that if an alien can take up the same or similar job, he can stay, and if he doesn't find a job for some time, then his stay will end early?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U104	Thank you. Well, these explanations overlap with what I've already said here. Firstly, it is a labour market protection measure; secondly, it protects against overburdening the social welfare system. And in response, if this short-term work permit really ends, there is a possibility that this one-year, short-term work permit may be extended for another year. If an employee is so indispensable that no one will be found in his place and it is really justified that he can work in Estonia for another year, then this possibility is also foreseen. Read it. It's in there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U105	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U106	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have two questions, but they want a very short answer. The first is this: have all these changes concerning the publication of data been coordinated by the Data Protection Inspectorate? And two: if a person has marked a certain place in his health record and closed his data, is his data published within the meaning of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U107	I'm improvising now. If these data relate specifically to emergency response measures, I believe that it is justified to process them once more, but not once more, rather than a whole medical history. I have never once claimed that the entire medical history should be public. This still concerns the part that is very clearly aimed at carrying out a specific measure or addressing a particular problem. But it is always possible for a person to check whether his or her medical records or other data have been processed and whether inquiries have been completed in connection with them. Surveillance, I understand, is a 'two-tier'. One is when a person himself/herself addresses either the Data Protection Inspectorate or a specific authority with a question as to why his/her health data has been verified. Different internal control measures can also be implemented internally to verify the accuracy and legitimacy of the use of these data. The second is that the Data Protection Inspectorate can also supervise the so-called general principles of whether the principle as a whole is justified and appropriate. And as I said earlier, the European Commission has also said that they are preparing an additional explanation of the processing and use of data precisely because, in the case of a pandemic, it is necessary to follow any differences in the processing and interpretation of data. We will wait for an explanation from the European Commission and see what comes from there. How? No, yes, data processing and data protection from the European Commission... I don't know, something must have gone missing. I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U108	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question concerns § 32 (3) according to which § 13 (4) of the Penal Code is to be supplemented. It basically states that decisions taken in an emergency and emergency situation concerning an exit order, enforcement of an injunction or a refusal of entry decision imposed by an injunction can no longer be challenged. What mechanism will work if a human error has been made and a person tries to turn to defend his rights? Do you want to reserve the right to have any mechanism in emergency and emergency situations in order to challenge the decision taken no longer in the future? At present, an opportunity has been given to lodge a complaint with the Administrative Court within 10 days and thus to defend its rights. You want to take away this basic right. Why? What's the reason or motivation for that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U110	Thank you for your question. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, First, you can file an appeal with the Police and Border Guard Board. Now, because of the emergency situation, the workload of the Police and Border Guard Board is so high that the examination of these appeals would be difficult, it is stipulated that this appeal can be brought immediately before the administrative court without recourse to the Police and Border Guard Board in the meantime. So judicial review and judicial protection are still in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U111	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U112	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, It's so complicated, there's so many problems to solve, but I'm still asking. § 15 concerns the tasks of the Agency. It is quite rightly said here that a number of things need to be done to protect people's lives and health. But I had a question about the temporary so-called "differentiations" of the Agency, which are allowed to deal with the current requirements for the treatment of medicinal products, the marketing authorisation requirements for medicinal products and the requirements for clinical trials of medicinal products, etc. What does that mean? Does this mean that the rules are tougher or that the rules are looser? And if they're looser, it won't come out of here. There can be all sorts of differences, maybe plus or minus, minus and plus. I'm very concerned, especially about the passages that are written here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U113	Thank you. Was it §22, yes? Yes, indeed, both ways of this movement can be relaxed, can be tightened. For example, if it is necessary to limit the number of medicines sold at the pharmacy to one person at a time, it is possible for the Agency to provide guidance to ensure that prescription medicines are not sold for more than two months at a time. Just so the first ones don't buy the pharmacy empty, and the others who stay later will not be left without the necessary prescription medicine, because in a crisis situation, as we can see here, all kinds of supplies, from masks to supplies, may be disrupted, and the necessary medicines will simply not come on fast enough. As regards the relaxation of certain requirements in a crisis situation, including in the case of medicinal products, one aspect that has caused a great deal of dispute here is linked, for example, to the very masks that today are in serious disadvantage. Whether one mask is more useful or whether the mask is useful at all and whether it must have a certificate or not and whether it can also wear a home stitched mask. The views of the Agency are very important in this regard. This also concerns the requirements for medicinal products, such as whether the medicinal product has some very clear, specific European Union certificate, or can be obtained in an emergency from a place where there is no European Union certificate, well, I do not know, for example, from the Russian Federation. As a result, the Agency has been given these powers, powers of decision, so that it can make different decisions according to the circumstances. But, of course, this does not mean that these decisions can be completely irresponsible. They certainly involve responsibility, analysis and assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U114	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U115	Thank you very much for your previous answer. You're absolutely right. In my opinion, in an emergency, all the rules must be considered many times more than under normal circumstances. And that's why I'm asking about the clinical trials that we don't relax the rules in that regard. We're not going back somewhere in World War II where clinical trials could have been carried out under any circumstances, are we? I'm asking you this because there's nothing to limit here. And another thing: how will the protection of people's lives and health be improved by a possible ban on advertising medicinal products?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U116	As far as the first part of the question is concerned, I think that, yes, human trials are now being carried out in such a situation, or to the extent that they are harmful or directly damaging to human health, are not going to be carried out in a healthy way. But as I said before, this change will not relieve us of any liability if some kind of breach of the law has been committed. After all, certain requirements are maintained, including the same proportionality requirement and the same purpose requirement, they need to be maintained anyway. As regards the restriction of advertising on medicinal products, what is this advertising? Advertising is to call for a mass or larger amount of medicinal products to be bought together. Well, I imagine when they say not to advertise aspirin, for example, people are supposed to not run to the pharmacy to buy aspirin. But when they say that aspirin helps against all kinds of disease, including corona, people are going to start buying up aspirin on a massive scale. Well, there's some kind of construction. I also cannot tell you what exactly is being achieved by restricting this advertising on medicinal products, but assuming that advertising is intended to boost shopping, this restriction is intended to minimise or withdraw shopping.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U117	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U118	I now ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U119	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U120	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The draft law amending the Auxiliary Police Act and other laws was on the agenda of the Legal Affairs Committee on Friday, 3 April at 12 noon. The hearing took place in part via the video bridge. Nine members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee took part. The draft law was drafted by the Minister of Justice. Since 32 other laws are being amended in addition to the law on assistant police officers, and the Minister of Justice has just given an excellent overview of them and answered questions thoroughly, I will limit myself to a few observations. The Committee on Legal Affairs held a substantive debate which lasted for several hours. The main issue was permanent measures, which will remain in force even after the end of the emergency situation. They are applied, for example, to the amendment of the Pharmaceutical Act and to the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. The first gave rise to a very active debate in the Commission, while the second did not offer much discussion during the sitting. In addition, data protection was a cross-cutting issue. For example, the amendment of the Emergency Act extends the circle of those who have access to citizens' data. This also created a lively discussion within the Commission. Some of the ambassadors felt that such a relaxation of the rules was not justified. Some confusion was caused by the structure of the draft explanatory memorandum in the Commission and, in his letter today, the Secretary of State explained to the Commission that the draft law was completed as a result of the cooperation of several ministries, the volume of work was large and the time was exceptionally small. The following decisions were taken at the end of the Commission meeting: Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 6 April 2020. Secondly, propose that the first reading be completed. Thirdly, to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 10 a.m. on 8 April 2020 and that I be appointed rapporteur. These decisions were taken by consensus, with 9 delegates in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U121	Thank you. Dear waitress, No questions for you. Yes, a procedural question, please, Toomas Kivimägi!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U122	I really do have a procedural question. The session of the Committee on Legal Affairs rightly highlighted the fact that the order of points in the draft law and the explanatory memorandum do not coincide at all, so it was very difficult to follow them. As far as I am aware, the Legal Affairs Committee gave the State Chancellery the task of bringing the explanatory memorandum into line with the draft today so that the order would be the same and it would be easier to follow in the Chamber. Did the State Chancellery reject this proposal or did it take into account the proposal made by the Committee on Legal Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U123	I don't know anything about such a proposal. I can say that the governing board of the Riigikogu has not discussed this issue. I can't answer that question right now. Can the representative of the Commission comment on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U124	Yeah, I'd love to comment on that, but the question was procedural. Indeed, the Commission made such a request, and today there was also an answer, to which I actually referred in part in my presentation: there was little time, a large volume, several ministries working on the draft and asking for an understanding attitude. About this was the content of this answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U125	Thank you. There are no more questions for the waitress now! Let's open the negotiations. Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U126	Thank you. Just in case, I'll take a little extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U127	5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U128	Ladies and gentlemen, In today's crisis, the country has three main tasks. First, maintain the health care system and stop the spread of the coronavirus. Secondly, to provide businesses and workers with a guarantee that jobs and income will be preserved. Thirdly, to draw up a plan for exiting the crisis in order to curb the recession. There are also three things in today's crisis that the government should not do. Firstly, the government should not abuse the crisis and try to push through non-crisis egotistical dreams in the cover of this crisis. Secondly, the government should not spend all of our country's financial capacity and reserve in the first months of the crisis and not cut costs. Thirdly, the government should not be forced through permanent restrictions under the name of temporary solutions. I was very much hoping that the government would not abuse this crisis, but the draft law currently under discussion shows something else. We must not forget at any time in this crisis that Estonia is a parliamentary state. Giving the government further permanent decision-making in the shadow of an emergency situation is contrary to this. There's no reason to concentrate so much power on the Minister of Education over the decision-making of school exams. Everyone understands that these exams cannot normally be passed this year, but the government should not overdo it here. Nor can we at any moment forget that Estonia is a democratic state that respects human rights. Democracy requires respect for certain processes and debates. In haste and bypassing the normal procedure, this is justified only in relation to the emergency situation; otherwise, we need a normal debate. Nor can it agree that the fair treatment of persons is restricted in criminal proceedings and that the processing of sensitive personal data is subject to extensive rights which restrict people's privacy. We cannot forget that Estonia is a small country with an open economy. Our businesses need labour, and our companies need export markets. There is no connection between the undemocratic and non-ruled restrictions on the employment of foreigners and the emergency situation. This is contrary to Estonia's long-term economic interests, from which both entrepreneurs and the state will lose in the long term. In the course of the crisis, the government has had to rush and send a cluster law to the Riigikogu, which has a lot of different effects and durations. It is understandable that the Riigikogu must make decisions within a few days, because the changes are necessary in order to provide support to people, entrepreneurs and those at the forefront of the corona crisis as soon as possible. The crisis is an extraordinary time and the Riigikogu understands it. But we hope that this cooperation will be two-way and that we will also see the willingness of coalition ambassadors to withdraw from the crisis laws those changes that have nothing to do with the crisis. The crisis must not be politically abused and used to rapidly push through legislative changes, which are political wishful thinking, and not to resolve the crisis in substance. I would like to put to the heart of all members of the Riigikogu that it is Parliament's duty to think ahead of the current crisis by amending the laws. We must not forget for a moment that Parliament must be a government-balanced institution for freedoms and fundamental rights. I call for as much as possible to be based on the general logic that the constraints for emergency situations, special rights and greater decision-making powers of the government are automatically limited to the duration of the emergency situation. In a good case, there could be some kind of time buffer that once a certain time has passed, these emergency rules will lapse. Special measures and restrictions are meant for crises and must not become a new normality in our post-crisis life-style. We must not, without asking questions, impose restrictions and impose responsibilities, grant additional rights to additional power structures, increase the rights of the state to collect and process various sensitive personal data, create new opportunities for the state to restrict fundamental rights, business freedom and private property of people. Although there is no time for long discussions, there cannot be a take-or-continue package before the Riigikogu. The time given to us can be counted in classes. We are ready for this when we are heard, the democratic rights of the people and the primacy of Parliament are respected. In haste, too, we must avoid foolishness and bogus solutions, and I hope that the coalition ambassadors will also be ready for two-way cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U129	Thank you. Mr Ossinovski, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U130	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like three more minutes, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U131	5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U132	I will respond to what has been heard today because, as the previous speaker said, there has been little time, first of all, and, second of all, it is one of the bad drafts for ever, in order to have a thorough and systematic examination of this voluminous bill. If anyone's tried to read it, they know. Unfortunately, for understandable reasons, very few colleagues have reached this point, and that is a pity because it is an extremely important draft. On the one hand, there are undoubtedly things that need to be decided quickly, on the other hand, there are long-term wishes for officials of certain ministries that they have wanted to write earlier into the law, but they have not received for various reasons. Now, in the shadow of the crisis, it is very nice to plant them somewhere, for example, in the third paragraph of § 68, in the hope that no one will notice. And there are certainly those that none of us notice, and the real impact and meaning of which are only revealed afterwards. There are certainly also changes which, by their very nature, require a very fundamental social debate for which insufficient time has been given. I undoubtedly agree with the previous speaker's suggestion that we should go through this draft properly with the rake and only implement the amendments that are really necessary. There are paragraphs whose need to implement the crisis is questionable or incomplete. But I would focus more on the subject of personal data protection, § 251 and 261, which are included in the Emergency Emergency Act. Of course, it is understandable and understandable that the rules on the protection of personal data, which have been tightened in Estonia since the entry into force of the European General Data Protection Regulation, limit the activities of government and officials. This is why they are meant to protect people from the arbitrary rule of state established in the Estonian Constitution and to guarantee privacy. There is no doubt that in an emergency there is a wider public interest, and in this case there is also a public good, which can justify restricting a person's privacy in certain situations and in certain cases. But it cannot be done lightly, it can only be done in exceptional cases and very prudently. Now that we are reading this section, I do not even think that the government would have maliciously wanted to make liberal democracy right. But when we read this section that is here at the moment, it gives a very broad opportunity to process personal data to people who currently have no right to do so. If we read the explanatory memorandum to this draft, this is now an amended explanatory memorandum, we have two versions there, page 8 of the revised explanatory memorandum states: 'The broad wording of the provision will help to ensure that the emergency response is as effective as possible. ' No doubt he will ensure that it is as effective as possible, but the question I put to the Minister of Justice, but unfortunately I did not get an answer to, is whether other alternatives, less damaging to people's fundamental rights, have been considered, which would also ensure its effective functioning. Now, it got particularly unhappy when my colleagues and I asked the Minister for Justice to give concrete examples of why these rights were needed. All three examples, unfortunately, were inadequate. In today's situation, a police officer or a law enforcement officer must undoubtedly ensure that the isolation requirements are met, but to do so, he does not need to process health data. The health information system, yes, needs to provide a legal basis for a tick to get to the police information system if a person is ill. It has to be done. But the policeman himself doesn't really have to process any sensitive personal data that health records are. The Minister said that a police officer needs to know whether it is an infected person or simply a contact to decide whether or not to put on a protective suit. Doesn't matter. If the police decide whether or not to protect a policeman, the police will commit a very serious reckless act because a person with no symptoms, as we know, may also be infected by a policeman. You shouldn't do that. This approach does not really change. Another example was that we search the educational register for anyone who has been a medical doctor and put them to work as medical examiners when the need arises. Oh, for heaven's sake! The person who ever studied as a doctor and never worked as a doctor, we take out his diploma and send him to work somewhere? Well, probably none of us want that. The people who have worked and still work in health care in Estonia are listed in the National Register of Health Workers, which is managed by the Health Board and has 24000 entries. Today we have only 15,000 working health professionals, doctors, nurses, midwives and dentists. In total, there are 24000 people on the register, including those who do not work in health care today. There is no need to create a separate processing right to go to see any educational papers, because in fact the health care system already has these data. The third example was quite grotesque: perhaps scientists-virologists want to study coronavir and the infected, and then they need to process people's sensitive personal data. Well, that's totally unacceptable! Firstly, the current Personal Data Protection Act allows these data to be processed in anonymised form for scientific purposes, and so much is done. There are ethics committees that grant rights to do so. They are currently doing their work relatively operationally and will be able to perform their duties without personal data being processed in a personalised form. So, today, we did not get any real examples of what it was for. I have heard of an example that has been left out of this bill to make it possible to personalise people's geoposition on a mobile phone. Some members of the government have spoken here to make it necessary. This is certainly very fundamental, and these data are undoubtedly of value. The question is whether this balance, which in this case concerns the violation of fundamental rights and procedural efficiency of a person, is the balance that our society would now want. But let's talk about the things that are objectively necessary. At the moment, it seems that the government has not even considered for itself what they need and what kind of data processing they need. At least the government representative could not provide us with any reasonable explanation today, unfortunately. I propose two ways forward on this issue. I am now talking about the processing of specific personal data. One option is that when we talk about the need for certain types of information requests, for example the police register should do some sort of inquiries in the health information system, it is possible to put together a code of conduct for this type of queries, if they are not individual requests, and it is already possible to give the consent of either the Chancellor of Justice or the Data Protection Inspectorate. It should be in the law if we wanted to do it this way. That would be the safeguard clause. And the second option, which certainly deserves to be considered, is that, in the event that processing of personal data is carried out under these rules during an emergency, the government would automatically be obliged to inform the person that his or her data has been processed under the law of emergency. This would give a person a practical and real opportunity to defend their fundamental rights and, at the same time, the government would be able to do its job. Well, it's a bad law, but it's still possible. I think Parliament is ready to work very proactively and strongly, and we hope that the rest of our fellow Members will be ready for this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U133	Thank you. It seems that there is no further wish for negotiations, so the negotiations are closed. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 170. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 8 April at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U134	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. Today's third item is the first reading of the 168th draft resolution of the Riigikogu on the introduction of the 'Stabilisation Reserve' by the Government of the Republic. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, to waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U135	Dear Deputy Speaker! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will bring before you a draft decision on the mobilisation of the Stability Reserve. Estonia declared an emergency situation on the night of 12 March in connection with the pandemic spread of the COVID-19 disease virus and imposed restrictions that have significantly changed the way we all live. The current crisis is unprecedented in terms of its scale and impact in Estonia, and the government is ready to take comprehensive measures to address it in order to preserve people's incomes, support the survival of entrepreneurship during the crisis and finally come out of this difficult economic situation again. You have before you a draft decision aimed at making full use of the resources of the Stabilisation Reserve. The Decision will allow the gradual mobilisation of resources in the Stabilisation Reserve over 2020 and 2021, as appropriate. The Stabilisation Reserve is a reserve for crisis situations, which is used, for example, in the context of the financial crisis or the emergency situation, as well as to reduce overall economic risks. In order to implement it, the State Budget Act provides for specific principles; the reserve is not intended to cover the deficit in normal economic circumstances. The stability reserve will increase mainly due to the cash surplus, the profit distribution of Eesti Pank and other temporary income. The primary coverage of sovereign debt is through the issuance of loans and bonds. The need to mobilise the stabilisation reserve is likely to arise in the second half of this year. In view of the expected rapid fall in tax revenues and the rapid rise in public expenditure as a result of the crisis, the Ministry of Finance will need to find additional funding of EUR 4.7 billion in 2020 and 2021 to ensure that the disbursements of the state and the Treasury's customers, including the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund, are made immediately. In this context, on 19 March 2020, as Minister of Finance, I raised the maximum volume of bonds promised under the short-term bond framework to EUR 1 billion to ensure a smooth management of short-term cash flow. An agreement has been concluded with the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB) for a 15-year loan of EUR 750 million. In addition, the Ministry of Finance is preparing to apply for an additional long-term loan from the European Investment Bank and to issue long-term bonds on either the domestic or foreign markets, depending on the situation of the financial markets. The stabilisation reserve had EUR 411 million at the beginning of April, with the full implementation of the reserve allowing for the mitigation of overall economic risks and the continued disbursement of planned expenditure from the State Treasury from the unharmed state budget. Reserve resources will be mobilised according to the need to manage the country's cash flow in order to cover the difference between the revenue and expenditure of the state budget with a view to mitigating the specific situation and the overall economic risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and the socio-economic crisis. The need to use the Stabilisation Reserve may arise if the borrowing limit or the bond issuance limit has been used, if there is a failure in the issuance of the bond, such as the interest of market participants is lower or the price of the loan is expensive compared to the use of the Stabilisation Reserve, as well as the need for day-to-day management of the cash flow. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Estonia has accumulated resources in reserves during favourable times of economic growth, and right now we see how foresighted, correct and useful this decision has been in previous years. The Stability Reserve has collected national budget surpluses to support them in difficult times. And in this case, it is undoubtedly a difficult time. I thank you for your attention and ask the Riigikogu to support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U136	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, The country's negative cash flow must mainly be financed through loan money and in the coming years. There are three reasons for negative cash flow. Firstly, a revenue gap of 1.4 billion this year. Secondly, emergency crisis measures of EUR 1.1 billion. The amounts are known. But the third reason is that the loan money is needed so that the Treasury can return the reserves collected over these years to the unemployment fund and the sickness fund. That's the amount I can't find in government documents. How much is that? In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I asked what was the balance of the liquidity reserve at mid-March before the loan money was poured on it. The answer was EUR 550 million. But the unemployment fund plus the sickness fund plus the universities and foundations have deposited 1.5 billion in the treasury. Consequently, the loan money is needed...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U138	The time for questioning is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U139	... at least EUR 1 billion to pay out the funds to the sickness fund, the unemployment fund, the foundations. I'm saying it for the verbatim. I don't want an answer. But you can, of course...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U140	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U141	...to tell if these sums are correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U142	Thank you. Well, you can give a speech for the verbatim. But I have a feeling that I may have to say the same thing again that I have already spoken in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In particular, the liquidity reserve is highly volatile. At the beginning of the month, when pensions are paid out and public wages are also paid out, they will be sharply reduced, one tax due on the 10th of the month, other taxes due on the 20th of the month, and by the end of the month the amount will be about the same as at the beginning of the month before disbursements are made. And that difference, indeed, is in the order of 500 million, maybe even more, around 600 million. So in a month, 30 days in a row, he's going to be rocking to a very large extent. Of course, I admit that this is no secret, and I am not able to withdraw the exact amount from the account, that the reserves of the sickness fund and the unemployment fund are also used as liquidity reserves and that, in the event of this volatility, the so-called loan will be taken in the meantime. This loan will also be returned. It is true that in the last month, this cash flow has been negative: it has been necessary to withdraw more money than it has been possible to put back tax receipts. So it's all right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U143	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! You have read from the state budget law the cases in which this reserve is formed, and now you want to use it in full to deal with the consequences of the current pandemic. But if something else bad happens, such as a big summer forest or bog fire that has come up, or a fuel spill that has come up, what then? Are you sure it's okay to empty out this reserve?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U145	Thank you. I'm sure we won't empty this reserve completely. We certainly follow the principle, as I said in my speech, that running costs will be covered by bonds or loans. And a bog fire, or even some kind of natural pollution, is certainly not nearly the cost of an amount that cannot be covered by the government reserve. The next item on the agenda is the additional budget. We have made the government reserve considerably higher than it normally is at the time of emergency, precisely in view of the fact that it is very difficult for us today to estimate the costs that may arise. However, when we are talking about the liquidity reserve, the liquidity reserve is intended to alleviate the economic crisis in an emergency. If, however, in the event of a health crisis, we have the hope that it will be under control in a few months, then the recovery will undoubtedly take longer. It will certainly take longer to recover from tax receipts, to get the economy to function normally. But once again, if we don't open the liquidity reserve today, when? It is difficult for me to imagine an even more difficult situation or an even greater crisis for which we should, as it were, hold it. If we do not use our reserves today, I honestly consider the collection of reserves to be a completely pointless activity. Right now, we need to use reserves. But on the practical side, we will in any case approach this way that we first borrow from the market when we need to finance ourselves, and all the reserves we have, including the same social security funds, will remain the last place we will be taking the money. But since we are now in the process of making these decisions, and this requires a separate decision of the Riigikogu, we are also asking for the liquidity reserve to be opened to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U146	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U147	Thank you. You said that this crisis was unprecedented in its depth and scope. I don't think you meant the world; we are talking about the Estonian budget, the Estonian reserve. How deep and far-reaching is the crisis you are forecasting? What are these numbers, and what are you comparing to saying?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U148	It may not only be the depth of the crisis but also the nature of the crisis. I would like to start by saying that a large part of this crisis, which now affects the Estonian economy, is caused both in terms of public health and in terms of economy outside Estonia. This is not a problem or a crisis caused by our own internal imbalances or some mismanagement. At the presentation of the next draft, I will certainly also present the economic forecast. Our economic forecast is based on the assumption that the health crisis will be under control by about the beginning of the summer and says that the economy will shrink by 10%. So far, the baseline scenario foresaw a 2% increase, instead of falling into the 8% minus. This forecast does not take into account the impact of the government's economic stimulus package and this package is expected to have a significantly lower fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U149	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U150	Thank you. You said earlier that the amount of the liquidity reserve is very volatile. And you're right, it's just that for the last three or four years, he's been swinging mainly towards a decline, and that's what we're seeing right now. But we also know that since there are virtually no 'packages of measures' in this draft that you are talking about in the context of economic recovery, logically, this additional budget of 2.6 billion cannot be the last. It is also logical that the tax gap compared to the RES will also be passed on to the following years. So we're gonna need more and more of that extra money. At this stage, well, in essence, one month after the start of the sharper crisis, the introduction of the stabilisation reserve seems completely irresponsible. However, would it not be reasonable to leave the stabilisation reserve in reserve at this stage?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U151	Thank you. I urge you to be patient. The next draft that I present here is where we are talking about all these numbers and growths, receipts and measures. But no, I don't think so. I think it would be irresponsible if we did not make preparations now to manage public liquidity and public finances and create a sufficient buffer for ourselves. The introduction or opening up of the stabilisation reserve is, in our opinion, very necessary, according to the Ministry of Finance. And I would like to stress once again: the fact that we are opening the stabilisation reserve does not mean that we are about to withdraw money, as I said in my introductory speech. We expect this need to occur at the end of the year, perhaps only next year. But until then, anyway, we want to finance our running costs with money borrowed from the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U152	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U153	Thank you. Good waitress! You mentioned that creating surpluses in good times is a wise financial decision. I agree very much. The last time such a wise financial decision was made in 2015 when the budget was in nominal surplus, in all the other good years these figures have been negative. But I very much agree with the principle that the use of the stabilisation reserve must be the last in line. That is the question of why we have to rush this bill here now when you yourself said that there is no need for this before the end of this year or even next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U154	Thank you. In my view, this is all one package: the additional national budget and the introduction of reserves are all one package. It is possible that we may need to make another supplementary budget. I very much hope that there will be no need for this, but now, seeing what our cash flows are within this year's number, I just consider it essential.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U155	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U156	Thank you. Good waitress! Before making a decision, there should be enough information to understand why such a decision needs to be made. Neither this draft nor, in fact, the additional budget has been quantified, even sketchically, as to what plans are to cover the deficit. We've heard a very general story, but no more precise plans. This has been repeatedly asked in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It seems to me that this is the kind of situation where you are asking the Riigikogu to make a decision on the basis that you are saying that we need money, perhaps it is necessary. But the figures of reasons that would convince you that it really is necessary, you have not provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U157	Thank you. Well, unfortunately, first of all, before we go to the additional budget, the basic law of the state budget requires a decision to be taken on the introduction of the liquidity reserve. It goes in that order according to the law. In essence, it would, of course, make more sense that we are talking about the budget first and then we are talking about the reserve, but for some reason the law has established such a queue for us. Secondly, I really don't understand the reproach of where we spend the money. Yes, we have not yet had time to talk about additional budget activities, volumes, all of this, but we have introduced it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, these volumes are publicly available. The level of additional national funding needs should now be absolutely clear to everyone. I don't really understand what explanations are missing here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U158	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I say my point of view, I cannot speak on this point. You don't need that decision right now. And I'll explain why. The point is that due to the fact that Estonia is part of the euro zone and the low loan burden, Estonia is currently receiving a very favourable loan from the financial markets, but the situation may change. I think a few more budgets need to be made this year. The impact of the crisis has not yet reached the industrial sector. A new debt crisis may erupt throughout the euro area. The situation can get pretty bad even after the medical problem has been solved. What makes you think that if we now spend the last reserve of this reserve, as I speak, because there are only scraps left of the liquidity reserve in two years, we should be completely dependent on the loan money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U160	Thank you. I don't agree that it's just leftovers. As of the last day of the month, the liquidity reserve had more than EUR 1 billion. I don't know what scale we're dealing with. And it is true that this may also be the answer to some of the earlier questions that the European stabilisation mechanism, to which Estonia lent money at its own time, is going to lend money back to the countries so that we can lend our loan money back to ourselves again. Tomorrow there will be a meeting of European finance ministers, which will most likely decide that money will be lent back to the countries, so that we can lend our loan money back to ourselves. There are no doubt any of these sources. I do not dispute at all that we must have our own resources and that these resources of our own must be the last of what we are going to do. And that's the way I think I've said it around here about three or four times, so we're going to go. However, it is necessary that we have flexibility and buffers in order to manage all state budget expenditure on an ongoing basis. As of today, I see no problem in the ability of the Estonian state to finance itself with bonds or loans, but I do not see any reason why the liquidity reserve should not be introduced now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U161	Aivar Sõerd, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U162	Yeah, I have a procedural question. Does our procedure require the Minister of Finance to mislead the Riigikogu? At the end of the month, the liquidity reserve balance of 1,1 billion includes loan money. This is the loan money that was taken with the latest issues. The fact that the Minister of Finance is misleading the Riigikogu is not in line with our practices.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U163	I'm sorry, I didn't say anything about what this reserve was about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U164	Thank you. Yes, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for confusion either by ministers or members of the Riigikogu. I hope everyone is correct and consciously not misleading anyone. Let's move on to the agenda. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U165	Thank you. Mr Helme, the word of the Minister of Finance is very important. I understand if you confuse words and talk about the liquidity reserve all the time, although it is the introduction of the stabilisation reserve that is good, Aivar is misleading about this issue. But I'm sure it's more substantial when you talk about the ESM and you say we've borrowed money there. Think about how it works! But here's my question. You said please count this place! You have started because this crisis is the most extensive and the deepest that Estonia has been through. I may have heard wrong, but you sort of pushed back, you said that the most extensive, deepest crisis in Estonia. How was that sentence? If the Minister of Finance writes something down, it can't be a mistake, can it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U166	Yeah, maybe this is where the stabilization and liquidity reserves get mixed up in the dispute. The statement was this: 'The outbreak of crisis is unprecedented in terms of scale and impact in Estonia! The government and the government are ready to take comprehensive measures to address this by preserving people's incomes, supporting the survival of entrepreneurship during the crisis and finally recovering from this difficult economic situation. '
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U167	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U168	So far, the biggest economic downturn in one year has been 14%, which, according to my calculations, is much more than the 8% that the Ministry of Finance is operating today. But I admit that 8% could be very optimistic. But my question concerns the management of the stabilisation reserve and the state's cash flow. To date, the crisis has not lasted another month in Estonia, and you are already saying that the last reserve should be mobilised during this year. However, any logic says that if this year, according to your estimate, there are some 1.4 billion fewer taxes in the budget than foreseen, then it is likely that the next and the next year's tax receipts will also be lower. My question is: if you intend to introduce the stabilisation reserve this year, what are we going to cover the deficit for the next few years?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U169	We can discuss this 8%. This 8% has its pre-requisites. We can also discuss this 14%. Two years in total, the fall was actually 20%. And I'm saying that that fall back then was deeper than it could have been because of the wrong political course of the government. But this must be a barren debate. I understand perfectly well what they're trying to do here. The aim here is to tie the hands of the government so that it has less chance of reacting to the crisis, so that the opposition will then be able to gloat afterwards. Well, that's fine. But I don't think that makes any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U170	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! The former Governor of Eesti Pank said such sentences that the ability to resolve this crisis also rests on the shoulders of Liigi and Ansip. You will probably have to agree with the previous speakers as well as with me that if the previous government of Jüri Ratas, criticised by you, had collected enough reserves, it would be easier to find rapid solutions to help the economy at the moment. But explain logic to a simple person! You're telling us here in front of the hall that maybe you'll only need to use this money next year. My logic says that, at the moment, if it is indeed possible to borrow very cheaply from the financial market, the maximum amount should be borrowed and reserves should not be used. You understand that our mistrust has arisen because of the same practices that the government has practiced. Also, there have been a wide variety of proposals placed in the shadow of the crisis on the cluster bill that has come here. That's why we don't want to give you a bill of lading right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U172	I would avoid a debate now on what was ten years ago, but you want to come back to it all the time, so that the bottom of the 20% recession hole on the shoulders of Near and Ansip may really look over the edge of that hole. But it's better that way. I don't know which line the Reverend Reform Party is running now. Is it such a crazy crisis that we have misjudged everything and the money is about to run out, or is it not that bad a crisis and there is no need to introduce reserves? I have a draft proposed by you, which I ask you to give the government the opportunity to use the stabilisation reserve if we find it difficult to obtain money from the market. It is precisely in the event that we face difficulties in obtaining market money, which is possible if the global economy is experiencing a health crisis longer and if this health crisis turns into an even greater economic crisis than it already is. This decision goes in parallel with the additional budget. The additional budget is right before you as the next item on the agenda. What are these costs and what is the profit side, all of which we talk through nicely. But I think it's basically a technical decision. We decide that, yes, there is a crisis so big, so deep and dangerous that we are taking up our reserves. I agree that in earlier times, not all governments have viewed reserves as orthodox as the governments of the Reform Party. It may have been good, maybe bad. But I was happy to read the summary made in the introduction to the current macro-analysis that the Estonian economy has grown very quickly, there is no imbalance, and it has worked particularly well in the last three or four years. You can see it that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U173	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U174	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It is not a question of whether the budget is in deficit and why this deficit arises. The question is that there is a series of 'Financial transactions' in the supplementary budget and there is only one number. It hasn't been unwritten. It's been asked to be rewritten several times. And that was also my question: what are the plans to cover the budget deficit? Why have these plans not been explained either in the explanatory memorandum to this draft or in the supplementary budget explanatory memorandum? Please find out, bring it out, it will be easier for us to make decisions! These questions all come from the fact that it has not been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U175	You must understand that this budget has been put together in a few days. It has not been the usual budgetary process. And if some places are more sparsely spelled out than usual, and I fully agree that the budget could normally be more unwritten, then it certainly has not been done with maliciousness or with a desire to mislead or conceal. When we're talking about financing operations in the supplementary budget as loans and capital increases, if that's what you mean... That's not what you mean? You mean taking out a state loan? It's a little hard for me to understand exactly what you want to know. Do you want to know who, when and under what conditions we'll be borrowing for the next three or six months? There's no such knowledge today. You can't have that kind of knowledge today. Even if only because today the Estonian state is basically shopping around looking for different loan options. We will examine possible options from different financial institutions, both in terms of the length of the loan, the price of money and other conditions. In a few weeks, we have increased our buffer by 950 million, which I think was very reasonable. This step, too, received quite a lot of criticism from the opposition, but I thought it was very reasonable. We must have this opportunity because we are in a situation where the vision that will happen next is very bad. We have very little to predict. The longer we try to predict, the worse our prediction will get. To say that we need so much in June and so much in August and that we are taking out a loan there and there and there, this day simply is not possible. We can talk about the size of our budget, the size of the revenue side, the cost side and the deficit that we need to cover, but where we borrow the money, there is no answer today. When exactly will it be needed? Nor is it possible to answer. For example, what is the amount of guarantees or loans asked by companies from KredEx? It's really hard for us to say that right now. What is the actual amount of compensation for 70% of the unemployment fund used by employers? We don't have that picture in front of us either. How big is the tax gap in March, I'm not gonna know until tomorrow. So to say in this situation, draw some kind of diagram on the board, where we charge money, it's just not possible. But I can mark the main places we've been asking for money. We have asked for money today from the Nordic Investment Bank and the European Investment Bank. There has also been talk about the EBRD, there has also been talk about the International Monetary Fund, there has been talk about the ESM system for lending money, there has been talk about bank bond issues. These are all the options that we have studied and with which we move forward step by step in preparation so that, if necessary, all this is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U176	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U177	Thank you. I got a scratch, good waitress, one answer. You said that the opposition would ask these questions to make your life more difficult and that you would slip and then we could point the finger later. I can assure you this is not our plan. Our plan is to ask these questions so that we can get the best solutions for Estonia. It's our only plan. But your last answer prompted me to ask a more specific question. You mentioned getting money from the IMF and the ESM. Does this mean that Estonia intends to ask for an aid programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U178	Thank you, very good question! That's actually what I was trying to explain. In the case of any financing, it is always a question of what conditions are being put forward. After all, the ESM is originally a scheme whereby the rest of the European countries are assisting a European country in distress or, at the very least, a small group of European countries in distress who are struggling to obtain money from the market. This includes a number of reform conditions, such as some privatisation programmes or some tax reform or labour market reform programmes. It's the same with the IMF. Today it is that, although it is formally said that yes, there will be no conditions, but I will not be able to say where this discussion will end until tomorrow. It is still moving in the direction that these conditions are rather formal. For example, it is said that this money will be used to alleviate the economic difficulties caused by COVID-19, and that is the whole condition. If there are conditions that are inappropriate for us, we won't look that way. However, if these 'political' or'structural' conditions are such that we are not disturbed or disturbed in any way, then it is clear that they are very favorable credit facilities. So that's why I can't tell you where we're borrowing from and under what conditions today. This is a continuous negotiation process, we are looking for the most favourable option, and the most advantageous means not only the price of money but also the conditions involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U179	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U180	Thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal does not provide very good answers, which is exactly what you will use the stabilisation reserve for. But you have a liquidity reserve and a stabilisation reserve that's pretty messed up. Let me get this straight. You're thinking of introducing the stabilisation reserve like a liquidity reserve? I still think it's premature to clean it up completely. The full deployment is too much requested of the Riigikogu. For example, Maapank's claims have ever been paid in the amount of EUR 17 million. We may face situations where this money is needed for other things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U181	Thank you. In my opinion, the explanatory memorandum states that this reserve is intended to be used to alleviate the exceptional economic conditions caused by the COVID-19. I admit it's a relatively broad formulation. But I think I have said several times that we have absolutely no intention of emptying this reserve, and I have tried to keep the liquidity and stabilisation reserve clearly separate from the remark. What do we use it for? To cover the exceptional costs necessary to alleviate the health crisis caused by the COVID-19 and the related economic crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U182	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Ladies and gentlemen have tried to find out what kind of recession and numbers you are operating with when you reflect certain estimates. But can you say one thing about knowing what you have today? When we look at the ten-year perspective, it looks like every ten years, some kind of lightning hits us, whatever it comes from. In the case of this economic policy, which has been pursued under Jüri Ratas for several years, can we continue to collect such reserves in the course of ten years? Will we be more able to do this if we have to borrow so much? And where does your confidence come from claiming that you have a completely different opinion than your partners, that you don't have to cut at all? If you listen to different speeches in this Chamber, including your speeches, it is very difficult to imagine the possibility that the country will escape the cut-off, which is relatively criticised by you, compared to 2009.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U184	Thank you. I completely deliberately fail to comment on the policy of Jüri Ratas' government. What am I going to say about this, I am a member of this government, I have put together a state budget as a member of this government, and as a member of this government, I have also worked to reduce unnecessary expenditure in the budget. I have no philosophical desire to keep the state sector growing all the time. On the contrary, I think it is very reasonable to keep the public sector or the public sector at large under constant pressure at all times to find a more sustainable way of governing. As for the slogan that you have given me and which I do not really accept in order to cut at all, I have spoken very specifically about the fact that when we have the economic crisis, which is not the result of the economy, it is certainly not right to start collecting costs immediately at this stage of this crisis, because it is aggravating the recession. I think that we have no dispute at all that, in the budget for next year, we must also look very closely at the cost side. But next year's budget will start on the basis of the forecast made in August. By then we will have a much clearer picture of how deep and how long this economic crisis is, in which we are, how much we have had extraordinary costs, how much revenue we have lost. And then we will have a simpler and much more understandable framework ahead of us to start making the 2021 budget. I do not see the possibility that we are not looking for expenditure in the 2021 budget. But today, when we are in a sudden, rapid and deep recession, when we are collapsing public spending, it only increases the decline and reduces the confidence of businesses and households. And we really shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U185	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U186	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I had no concern with this draft stabilisation reserve. Yes, 411 million of course could indeed be used in full, the liquidity needs being so high. But I'm concerned about your answers. The draft is relatively neutral. I really cannot imagine that there could be a worse situation, and therefore the willingness to put everything into play now is your position as Minister of Finance, which may not be quite shared in this Chamber. But that's it. I think that, in fact, our questions are largely due to the fact that the highest number of the additional budget explanatory memorandum, i.e. the cash flow of the Treasury this year, is minus 3 billion and 775 million. And this is one of the few amounts that are completely unwritten in the explanatory memorandum, we don't know how it's covered. It is understandable that no loan agreements have been concluded, the conditions are not known, but you could simply describe how much it is at the expense of the liquidity reserve, how much it is at the expense of the stabilisation reserve, what are the theoretical possibilities, how much the loan volume is, what alternatives are to simply provide information. This amount is so large that not writing it will cause confusion and questions. Maybe you can be more specific right now. But I'm sure you should add an explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U187	Thank you. I must honestly admit that I thought that we would get to this debate during the next draft, but I can also briefly describe it now if you want. I just don't have those notes in the file. I need to talk to you. Yes, 3.78 billion is the negative cash flow of the Treasury. The negative cash flow of the Treasury is not the same thing as the budget deficit. It consists of several parts. First of all, a little over a billion of it is a tax gap. It consists of a reduction in the reserves of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund, which is also the cash flow of the treasury. This negative cash flow consists of the excess or additional costs associated with the emergency measures. It consists of additional investments that the government wants to stimulate, including subsidies paid to local authorities. And it consists of the costs of financing transactions, where, in the current context, we are specifically talking about either capital contributions or direct government loans to some companies that the government considers to be important to save from the point of view of the Estonian economy. These could be some of the big public companies, they could be some of the big private companies. In particular, Tallink has expressed its wish to receive a loan or capital contribution from the state amounting to EUR 150 million. All of these things together make up this negative cash flow.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U188	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. I now ask for Mr Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U189	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Government of the Republic, on 2 April this year. The draft was presented on behalf of the initiators by Minister of Finance Martin Helme and the members of the Commission were answered by both the Minister of Finance and Sven Kirsipuu, an official of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to place the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Monday, 6 April, to appoint a speaker before you, to propose that the first reading be stopped and to set the deadline for amendments on Tuesday, 7 April at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U190	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Maris Lauri, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U191	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. It's very nice that you finally got to what concerns us when you answered our questions. Meaning the question of how the deficit is planned to be covered. We all perfectly understand that in the uncertainty we are in, it is impossible to assess exactly how big a deficit is going to be. It is also very difficult to assess how this deficit can be covered in practical terms. But there must be some idea, especially when people come to ask, "Be good, now give the government all the resources of the stabilisation fund, all the resources of the reserve." Unfortunately, there was not even an indeterminate explanation. Neither was it at our meeting on Thursday in the Commission, perhaps because it took place electronically and, next to it, the next two drafts that we are discussing were on the agenda. At the same time, it would be necessary to give this picture if the Riigikogu gave permission to use the funds of the Stabilisation Fund. Unfortunately, this information does not exist, not even vaguely. Similarly, there is no real idea of how to cover the deficit in the case of the additional budget. If there was a question like this, it would have been good if this explanation had been in writing and even in short form. It would have been good to hear this more closely at the Commission meeting. The current drafting certainly raises questions also because, in its wording, we do not see the condition that the reserve is practically used when other options are exhausted, i.e. lending is no longer successful, for example, its conditions are not favourable. It raises questions about what it is used for. This is not very clear in the draft, but it should be. In principle, all the possibilities of the basic budget law are listed, including the financial crisis. We do not have a financial crisis at the moment. In this situation, it seems to be very formal. And a little frankly, it seems that we have just been approached by the Riigikogu with a request that you give us this money and we will do what we have in mind. Even if this 400 million and a little more seems to be a small amount for our current economy and the current budget, exactly so we were told in the Commission on Thursday that this is such a small amount, but 400 million and a little more could be a very large amount in certain situations. I am simply reminding you that 200 million or more will go to cover the costs of the Health Insurance Fund to deal with the current health crisis. This could get bigger. So in this situation, we need to understand the scale of the current situation: 400 million can be a very large sum if we solve a particular problem. And that clarity would have been the same in the bill and the explanatory memorandum. If there are questions as to whether the stabilisation reserve should be emptied immediately and whether we should allow it to be used immediately, these questions are precisely because we do not really know what will happen in six months' time. Suddenly we're in a situation in the fall where we need this money a lot more than we do today. And then the question arises as to why we put that money at the disposal of the government today. Thank God, now for the last quarter of an hour, we found out a little bit about how the plan was to cover the deficit, but it should have been in the explanatory memorandum. So this bill can, in my opinion, be improved to make it clearer, clearer. No one can say that we do not want to work against the crisis and that we want to throw sticks at the government. We want enough money to be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U192	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. That concludes the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 168 OE. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 7 April this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U193	Let's keep going. Today's fourth item is the first reading of the State's Draft Supplementary Budget for 2020 Act 171 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, to waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U194	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Head of the sitting of the good Riigikogu! You have before you an additional budget for 2020 to alleviate the health crisis and economic losses caused by coronavir. This is a major and substantial piece of work that the government has done in a very short time. I also thank the Riigikogu for agreeing to proceed with this budget at an accelerated pace. The state budget normally gives substance to what the state does during the year. This shows the priorities of the government, the needs and opportunities of the state and the fiscal stance. This additional budget, however, deals with covering the costs of the sudden and external mass crisis and mitigating the economic crisis caused by the stalling of society. We have not had the political luxury of making choices regarding the arrival of the crisis, but we do have the choice of how we will react to the crisis. We are faced with an unknown situation in which decisions must be made quickly. The government's choice is to show solidarity as a society, help the weaker and share costs. We must be decisive and courageous, but we must not act rashly. Our choice is to do everything we can to keep the labour market in operation and companies alive in the crisis. To this end, we are prepared to spend the accumulated reserves and increase the public debt burden. Just by now, we've had our reserves gathered. As a country with the lowest debt burden in Europe and under the conditions of negative interest rates, we can afford to stimulate our economy at the most critical time in order to pay off our debts over time when better times return. The situation of both the world and Estonia's economy has changed dramatically as a result of the pandemic spread of the corona virus that causes COVID-19 disease. In addition to the crisis in healthcare, this has been reflected in the sharp and rapid contraction of the economy. Europe and other countries of the world have introduced exceptional restrictions to combat the virus in order to protect the lives and health of their people. These, in turn, have an exceptionally negative impact on the normal functioning of the economies of all regions and of the world. It is clear that the economies of both Estonia and our neighbouring countries have been hit by a severe shock. The additional budget is intended to cover the unforeseen costs of the Corona virus pandemic and to boost entrepreneurship and the labour market in the economic and health crisis. The principle that resources must be injected into the economy in difficult times must be taken into account. The Ministry of Finance updated its spring economic forecast on Tuesday 31 March to take into account the latest knowledge of the economic situation and the duration of public health protection measures. This economic forecast does not include the impact of the crisis aid package, which we will later assess separately. An important assumption of the forecast is that the emergency measures currently hampering economic activity will be in place until the end of May. This will be followed by a gradual recovery of normal economic activity to around 90% of normal economic activity by the end of this year. Estonia's gross domestic product is forecast to fall by 8% this year. This is considerably more than the forecast made on 18 March said that it foresaw a 3% recession. It must be understood that we live in an unprecedented and unpredictable environment that brings about sudden changes every day. The previous economic forecast was only two weeks earlier, but in the meantime, business has been subject to further constraints and economic prospects in both Europe and North America have deteriorated significantly. There is reason to believe that part of this decline will be compensated next year if the Estonian economy could grow back to pre-crisis levels. The future of the economy of Estonia and the whole of the European Union will depend on two factors in the coming years: firstly, the duration of health measures restricting business activity, and secondly, the effectiveness of government crisis relief measures. They should help to restore a normal economic environment as quickly as possible. This forecast assumes the removal of restrictions by the end of May. From there, the recovery period will begin until the end of this year, when normal economic activity should have recovered in most areas of activity. In the economic crisis that has suddenly fallen on us, much of the planned income will inevitably not be earned, and the consumer and investment security of households and businesses will be damaged. Since the reasons for this crisis are not in the Estonian economy, the government has a duty to do everything in its power to mitigate the impact of the crisis on both companies and households. If, after the previous crisis, it was inevitable that some of the resources concentrated in the construction sector, for example, could no longer be used there, then there should be no imbalance in the Estonian economy at present. The normal economic activity of many companies was interrupted almost overnight. It is therefore well founded that the first crisis response measures must be put into effect as soon as possible. As it is not clear that the economic situation will continue to develop, the situation will be monitored operationally in order to develop further and well targeted measures. I will present here an overview of the main measures supporting entrepreneurship and the household, which the adoption of the additional budget will allow. First of all, the amendments to the Tax Administration Act provide for relief from tax liability due to the exceptional circumstances. In times of emergency, no interest on the tax debt is calculated for companies. In addition, the payment of interest in the case of deferred tax debt shall be suspended. The interest rate on the tax debt will fall from 0.06% per day to 0.03% and, in the case of deferral, to zero at all. The State transfers the amount of advance payment of the first quarter's social tax to the advance payment account of the self-employed persons at the Tax and Customs Board. If self-employed persons have already paid advances, they can use this money to cover any tax liability, either immediately or in the future. In order to alleviate the tax burden on employers, the requirement of a minimum social tax obligation is abolished for three months. The VAT rate for electronic publications will be reduced to 9%, i.e. to the same level as for paper publications. The rate of VAT on audio books on physical media will also decrease. We want to support people and entrepreneurship by cutting excise duties. To this end, we will reduce the excise duty on diesel by 25%: EUR 372 per 1000 litres. This is the same level as Lithuania. It is currently EUR 414 in Latvia. The impact of the fall in excise duty is expected to reduce the price of diesel by 141⁄2 cents per litre. As a result, refueling will be significantly reduced in Latvia and Lithuania, and international transport companies will return to Estonia to refuel, including transit trucks to Finland and Sweden. The reduction of the excise duty on diesel also somewhat hampers the fall in consumption resulting from the imposition of an emergency situation. Indirectly, diesel is an important production input at the price of many goods and services. We will halve the rate of excise duty on natural gas, from EUR 79.1 to EUR 40 per 1000 cubic metres. As a result, natural gas costs households 7,1%. We will reduce the rate of excise duty on electricity from EUR 4,47 to EUR 1 per megawatt-hour, which is the minimum rate allowed in the European Union. As a result, electricity prices will fall by 3,1%. The loss of income caused by the virus may be accompanied by a desire to sell forest land. As a result, we will also extend the regulation on the deduction of costs from the proceeds of the disposal of timber to natural persons. Forest management enables natural persons to obtain additional income to mitigate the effects of the economic downturn and should therefore be encouraged. In addition, there is a general cultural-political interest in ensuring that the number of self-employed forest owners does not decrease and communication with the forest is passed on from generation to generation. In order to stimulate the economy and increase the investment volume of local authorities, EUR 70 million is planned to be allocated to support investments, such as further road repair, energy efficiency improvement of buildings, demolition of buildings not needed, etc. In order to mitigate the effects of the crisis caused by coronavir, EUR 30 million will be allocated to local authorities to cover revenue shortfalls and cost increases. We also support local authorities by directing EUR 30 million for road repair and construction. We also transfer money to the Road Administration for road repair. These are small jobs that are rapidly launched, which channel money across the country and also create new value. As a regional policy measure, we will target EUR 15 million for faster internet penetration. The current crisis shows that the existing Internet network is sometimes unable to cope with the amount of teleworking that is needed. Support for entrepreneurship in the budget is very important. KredEx will offer companies a wide range of services. It is particularly important to provide loan guarantees for new and existing bank loans. KredEx receives ad hoc support of up to EUR 1.5 billion in loan guarantees. In order to grant companies current loans, we allocate EUR 500 million to overcome the liquidity problems caused by the corona outbreak, including, where appropriate, bank loan payments. In addition, EUR 50 million is foreseen to provide investment loans to companies in order to overcome the difficulties caused by the outbreak of corona. The transport sector is obviously heavily affected by the crisis. That is also what the state has been thinking about. A support scheme has been established for passenger ships, which provides that ships entering a port are exempted from the maritime charges for a period of one year. In addition, we will impose a 75% refund on all passenger ships by 2020. Like KredEx, we support agriculture and rural development through the Rural Promotion Foundation. The agri-food sector and rural enterprises are offered extensive loan guarantees. Companies operating in rural areas are offered revolving loans. To improve liquidity, land capital is created for sale and lease-back transactions for the owners of arable land. The support for the farm replacement service will be increased to ensure that producers are replaced not only by livestock farmers but also in crop production. Support purchases of shares in strategic companies or the expansion of the capital of state-owned companies are planned, with a budget of EUR 300 million reserved. Therefore, support can be given, for example, to Tallink and possibly to some major state-owned companies. The specific needs and decisions cannot, unfortunately, yet be highlighted. In support of construction, it is planned to support the reconstruction of apartment buildings and residential buildings through KredEx with 100 million euros, plus the demolition of abandoned buildings with 5 million euros. Tourism is likely to have suffered the most from the current crisis, with grants being planned through the Enterprise Development Foundation. Support from micro- and small enterprises for those who want to restructure their business in response to the crisis will be channelled to EUR 10 million. The support provided by the EAS tourism sector to ensure faster exit from the crisis is EUR 25 million. In the social field, we support the preservation of people's wages by introducing a labour market support measure at the unemployment fund within two months, which will help maintain people's incomes and prevent mass redundancies. It will cost EUR 250 million. In the interests of public health, we will ensure from state budget resources for the first to third day in the period from March to May 2020 for the reimbursement of sick days on all incapacity sheets. The Social Insurance Institution also provides an additional budget for the provision of a maintenance sheet to parents of children with special educational needs. We automatically extend the assessment of work ability and the severity of disability during emergency situations. 19 million euros will be allocated to the Ministry of Education and Research to support private schools, youth work, recreational education, kindergartens and childcare, and research and development related to COVID-19, including investments in the tertiary biolab of the University of Tartu. EUR 25 million is intended to cover the subsistence allowances for people active in the field of culture and sport, and part of the costs incurred for events that have not taken place in the field of travel and sport. Secondly, we want to partially compensate for the loss of revenue generated by the disruption of activities in order to help cope with the inevitable fixed costs. It supports museums, theatres, music, sports and other creative sectors. The state is helping to support churches and clergy, whose activities are severely disturbed during the crisis, but who will continue to provide assistance to people. The supplementary budget provides for support to help alleviate the economic difficulties faced by religious communities and to cover the labour costs of clergy and other church staff caused by the spread of the corona virus and the constraints of the emergency situation. It is important for us to ensure that religious organisations continue to function in a crisis situation in order to ensure that the social and social assistance provided by religious communities on a daily basis is guaranteed. We will suspend the second pillar payments from 1 July 2020 until 31 August 2021. Effective crisis measures by the Government of the Republic should mitigate the crisis, but cannot prevent its impact. The success of our economy is mainly influenced by measures to prevent the spread of the virus, both in us and in the neighbouring countries, which determine when entrepreneurship can start to recover. Unlike the previous crisis, the role played by the fall in demand could also be undermined by the supply side, both due to the disruption of international supply chains and the withdrawal of workers. In turn, physical constraints on consumption, income losses and higher savings due to uncertainty reduce demand. From the point of view of domestic demand, the biggest setback is private consumption. In the current circumstances, in particular, compulsory expenditure is limited to the purchase of essential goods and the payment of housing services. The consumption of communications services is likely to increase and cannot pass without transport. The fall in external trade is the biggest in tourism and transport services. If the crisis remains short-term and the global economy recovers rapidly, a large part of this decline will be regained next year. Consumer prices will remain significantly lower than previously expected due to both a sharp decline in demand and a fall in oil prices. Consumer price growth is slowing to 0.6%. According to the additional budget, the nominal government deficit will be EUR 2.62 billion this year, together with the government's economic support measures. The impact of the measures on the nominal government balance is 1.15 billion euros, or 4.4% of GDP, leading to a nominal deficit of 10.1% of GDP. The structural budget deficit with measures is 5.2% of GDP. The revenue from the state budget will fall by 1.632 billion in the additional budget compared to this year's budget. The economic downturn will lead to a massive reduction in tax revenues, affecting all levels of government. The negative cash flow of the Treasury, together with measures and reserves, is EUR 3.77 billion. The public debt ratio amounts to 22% of GDP. The current revenue side of the state budget was approximately 11.8 billion and will decrease by 1.63 billion, or 10.2 billion, depending on the measures taken. The total cost of the state budget will increase by approximately 187 million euros in the additional budget, plus 10 million investments. The measures have an impact on state budget expenditure of 513 million. In addition to the measures, an increase of EUR 150 million in the government reserve and the creation of a special-purpose reserve to cover the costs of COVID-19 has also been included in the calculation of the position. Dear Riigikogu! The government's fiscal policy must be visible to society as a whole and must support the development of the country. The additional budget before you shows the determination of the government, the determination to adapt the country's monetary and economic policies to the economic circumstances that have changed as a result of the corona crisis, and to do so intelligently and thoughtfully. Essentially, the additional budget is a strong signal of the ability of our country and our economy to change. The government has offered its answer to the current economic issues before us, and the responsibility for helping our people and businesses quickly is on the other hand for you, good members of the Riigikogu! I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the principles of solidarity and flexibility in the supplementary budget will be accepted by you. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U195	Thank you. Minister, there are also questions for you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You are obsessed that the additional budget must not include cuts. It's a little unfamiliar to hear from the Minister of Finance. If revenue decreases sharply, costs should also be adjusted. Even if you don't like the term 'cutting', adjustments are still necessary. Well, let's take the example that the mission costs will remain because the aircraft will not fly and the events will not be organised, or fuel prices will be lower, electricity prices will be lower than planned in the budget. This will allow savings to be made in the maintenance costs of public buildings. Let's take the same amendment to the law on excise duty reduction. The price of fuel is falling, but in services bought by ministries and other government agencies, that price is included. The price of electricity is falling and the price of heating is also affected by gas. Are these cuts in excise duty not going to reduce the costs of ministries? And now if this adjustment is not made, then what happens is that the ministries...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U197	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U198	... there will be a buffer for the wage of employees, the increase in wages, the payment of bonuses, the payment of one-off bonuses. Is that the goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U199	We still have to be passionate about politics. It is quite clear that the cost side is not the same as that adopted in the state budget at the end of the year. Well, that's perfectly clear. The absence of postings alone has had a significant impact on the cost side of the public sector and on the wider public sector. Just like that, if we think about having, well, we're taking the same house at the Ministry of Finance, the super ministry house, where 800 people usually work a day, then this number is clearly less than 200 people a day. Water consumption, electricity consumption is something else entirely. But imagine that we will be able to calculate this cost in a few weeks, not knowing how long this period is, and not knowing what we will eventually adopt in this budget, what measures will be in force, but not practically possible. But I promise, with absolute certainty, that if these costs are missed, then the rest of the money we will not just let go at the end of the year. That's definitely not gonna happen. After all, we all know that at the end of each year the Ministry of Finance and the Government will come to the Riigikogu again with changes in the state budget for the current year. By then, we will have a clear picture of the costs that have not been incurred, and that, of course, we can count as savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U200	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U201	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of Finance! In this package, there is one measure on the lines of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which maybe is different or at least, let us say, it has not been used in this way in the past. As a result of the crisis, it is understandable, perhaps it is like buying shares in various companies of strategic value. Please explain a little what you mean by this circle: which companies it may concern, what the government envisages these possible entries, possible departures from those companies from which participation is purchased. I think you understand well that all these are multimillion-value steps in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U202	Thank you. Well, I'd split it up first. Firstly, we are talking about the possible expansion of capital for national companies, some of which have experienced very serious difficulties. There is probably nothing surprising about the fact that in the transport sector, in both rail and air transport, and in the service of waterways, in other words, in the Port of Tallinn the revenues are either completely lost or significantly reduced. And we have a decision to make first. Whether in aviation, for example, we're gonna stop pushing it, put it on some richer boyfriend, or expand our capital. There is no such decision today because there has been no time to consider it. The exact same can be said of the railroad. But we must reserve for ourselves the possibility that, if there is political will and agreement to do so, we will still save our large infrastructure companies, which are also state owned. That's one side. Now the other side. After all, there are not many companies in Estonia that are large enough to deserve help from the state in such a way, or otherwise weighty enough in the Estonian economy to deserve the help of the state. Above all, we have talked about Tallink. Tallink is also a strategic company. If we let Tallink go north, of course there will be Finnish or Swedish or German companies who will also travel between Helsinki and Stockholm, we will have no doubt about that, but the flag revenue will definitely go somewhere else, the jobs will go largely somewhere else and it will hardly benefit us. Not to mention that we have seen, in the current crisis, how it is possible to agree on current solutions very quickly, very flexibly, with a company located here, for example, the same maritime link with Germany. We consider this strategically important. It is also a very large piece of our economy, just over 1.8% of GDP, a quarter of the total tourism sector. We believe that under no circumstances can we allow it to simply go bankrupt. We know from the previous crisis that those countries that went to help their large companies through their participation finally got the cheapest relief from the crisis. They sold back or off these holdings, and mostly they earned or lost very little. Now the more specific scheme that has been discussed with Tallink. This scheme, which is currently being negotiated, is first to make a state loan and then to formalise in the next few months, when we have negotiated these nuances, these nuances are important, these nuances are overwhelming the conditions with which we enter into the transaction and with which we exit. Once we have agreed on these terms, it is important that this loan is converted into a participation. There is a series of specific nuances here, starting from the fact that it is a stock exchange company that imposes certain restrictions and ending with whether we agree that Tallink has a preferential purchase right or has a certain buy-back date. All these things need to be negotiated and discussed. If you try to do this in a few days or in a few weeks, mistakes will likely come in that will cost you dearly. But the scheme that we have been talking about now, and the amount we have been talking about now, is 150 million direct loans from the state, which will later be converted into participation and will be sold for some time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U203	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U204	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, One observation before going to the question. Jüri Ratas, the leader of your government, has put masks on everyone's mind, yet today you are the second member of the government who is in front of us without a mask. Do the same thing yourself and wear a mask! My question concerns the small and micro-enterprises that make up the absolute majority of Estonian entrepreneurs. This additional budget before us includes a proposal to support those small business players who wish to start redesigning their business or who wish to do something else after the crisis or to provide new services, but unfortunately, this is not helping those in need at the time of the crisis. Most of them do not currently qualify for unemployment fund measures either. My question is: what happened to the fact that support directed specifically at smaller and micro-enterprises was excluded from this package in this form? If the Reform Party proposes to include it there, will you be willing to support it so that small and micro-enterprises can also receive support?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U205	Thank you. First of all, masks. There is nothing to do, the government is still a servant of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu have been distributed masks, I have not. I haven't made it to the State Chancellery today. The note is, of course, correct, I fully agree that wearing the mask is correct. But at least I'm keeping a distance of two meters here. As far as micro-enterprises are concerned, I would really like us to have this budget debate with a slightly different mentality than usual. When proposals come from the opposition, which are practical and thoughtful, and on which we do not have, like, any major disagreement, I am certainly prepared to consider and support them. But first, the proposal should see itself. Now from this specific EAS measure. We have been ordered by EAS during April to present a precise mechanism to the government so that we can review it and approve it. But I want to point out here that for this 10 million, and also for 25 million, one is for micro-enterprises, the other is for tourism companies, and they may not rule out each other, of course, in both cases we are talking about an unrepayable injection of money. The unrefundable money that goes into this sector: it is simply the money that is being issued to help companies continue to operate. What is this sieve or what kind of mechanics is that charlatans do not show up so that companies that have not actually operated or have never paid taxes should not receive easy money, it must be developed by the EAS. They have experience in developing and implementing such measures. But I want to stress that it is meant as irrecoverable aid to this sector and, as we sincerely wish, it should start immediately in May.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U206	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U207	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. An additional budget of 200 million has been allocated to rural and agricultural activities, which is a large amount. The implementing authority for this large amount is the Rural Development Foundation, whose Council has exceptionally high responsibilities. Mart Järvik, Minister for Rural Affairs, made changes in the Council: representatives of agricultural organisations were excluded from the Council's membership. Mart Järvik himself is the vice-president of the Rural Promotion Foundation, if I'm not mistaken. In this situation, where this resource needs to be used in a very responsible manner, what are your proposals for raising the competence of the Rural Promotion Foundation? And when are the representatives of the agricultural organisations going back to that council?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U208	Thank you. I cannot answer this last one because I am not a member of the MES Council, I must admit, I have looked at it or dealt with it in this way. This, of course, has been dealt with by rural ministers. I would point out, however, that the measure taken by the Rural Promotion Foundation (MES) is worth 250 million. However, it must be said here separately that all this money will not be distributed immediately. The MES measures are similar to those of KredEx. First there are guarantees, then there is a working loan and then there is separate land capital, which is essentially a principle of liquidity on the basis of sales and lease-back. For all these measures, whether we are talking about KredEx, the MES, these same EAS measures, the measures of the Ministry of Culture, the measures of the Ministry of Education, we have agreed that this scheme will come to the government first. The government's gonna take a collective look at it and approve, and then it's gonna go into operation. The same was true of labour market measures, which were decided in very close contact with the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. There's a very simple reason. We all understand that this is a lot of money, we all understand that its use must be transparent, that it must be universally applicable, that no conditions have been imposed that play this money in someone's hands, or, on the contrary, that someone will be forced out of it face to face. We believe that a balance between flexibility and efficiency and, at the same time, transparency and accountability will be achieved if we have all been discussed with this three-party government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U209	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U210	President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! Looks like the government masks have fallen. I am thinking of a specific budget line under the Ministry of Culture: half a million euros in order to buy the rights to broadcast the Olympic Games from the Postimees group. Please explain to the honourable Riigikogu how this specific allocation of funds will help to emerge from the corona crisis! Especially if we consider that the Olympic Games will not be cancelled, but postponed! Please explain how it happened that the Minister of the Fatherland wants to buy these rights from this particular media house. This money is going to this media group. In a crisis situation, perhaps it would be more reasonable to give this half a million to Estonian Post, for example, in order to better finance home delivery services?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U211	Thank you. I have to say that this expenditure on the ERR has not been agreed anywhere, and the ERR Council has not even wanted it. As far as I know, it's been a circular idea. And here I come back to my previous answer, that every idea that is circulating must first be introduced to the government and agreed upon by the government, and then it can be implemented. I fully agree that this is not a crisis measure and that much more money is needed elsewhere. But what is the scheme of support for institutions, associations and other organisations under the Ministry of Culture? This proposal must be brought to the government by the Minister of Culture. Personally, I certainly prefer this money not to be spent on the ERR.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U212	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U213	Thank you. Mr Helme, all your speeches are full of self-centered assessments and a desire to replace experts. Here again today, you spoke of a deplorable administration that was said to have been miscarried. All the experts have, in fact, repeatedly denied your claims. What you have said about the reasonableness of all measures has been overturned by Eesti Pank and other experts. We still have to choose the things involved in the crisis. What you were talking about, for example, the refueling of cars in Estonia has today also been overturned by your own officials in the committee that I chair. But in the last meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you said that you believe that these measures will halve the recession. Where do you get this authority? Where are these analyses that reduce by half? That's very strongly said.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U214	Thank you. I don't know, it's a number of reproaches that I've been hurting experts somewhere. The experts are different, and they approach things from different facets. I read Eesti Pank's speeches. In my opinion, Eesti Pank has supported and praised the government's steps on several occasions. Perhaps in some nuances they have also criticised, but I do not see that Eesti Pank has accused us of moving in the wrong direction. Well, the second pillar dispute is a completely different dispute, but, for example, in the case of excise duties, there is no surprise or news that the officials of the Ministry of Finance do not like tax reductions. Well, don't like it, there's no tax that you'd like to lower. But I've asked them to do the calculations and they've done them. I would remind you that the Ministry of Finance ordered a separate analysis of the effects of excise duties on diesel from the Conjuncture Institute in the autumn. It made it very clear what the impact of reducing the excise duty on diesel would be on our transport sector if we were to lower it to Lithuania's level and what the effect would be if we were to lower it to Latvia's level. It was very clearly pointed out that this effect was unambiguously positive. However, it was clearly stated that this impact would have a negative impact on the revenue of the state budget. I can't blame the Conjuncture Institute for any bias. Perhaps those experts or market participants who are involved in transport and who clearly say that it is beneficial for the Estonian economy and Estonia's competitiveness, well, okay, they are the 'interested party' of this matter. But this criticism, let's say, at best, is polemic. [[They say something in the hall.]] I couldn't...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U215	Jürgen, let's keep this discussion within the rules! Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U216	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I understand from your message that helping everyone in trouble does not go behind the money, that money is found for everyone, bigger and smaller entrepreneurs. The national budget can be reduced by 140 million euros by giving up part of the excise money. The 125 million necessary for the oil refining plant can be withdrawn. Just like there's enough for everybody. But I do not see any measure that would allow people who have lost their income to survive, who have so far received their income on the basis of contracts of command or employment, i.e. the self-employed. There is nothing for those who are paying for this health crisis by losing their jobs. They have to deal with unemployment benefit, about 50,000 people. Please tell me why they have been excluded from your package of measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U217	Thank you. I understand that this was a compliment, that we still take care of almost everyone. And I accept this compliment, which we have really tried. In my opinion, this is a comprehensive crisis, which is an unexpected external shock. And the task of the state is to ensure that this shock is survived. Since we have been able to control the health crisis and relax the measures, the same companies that, to date, operated normally and successfully and were able to provide work are still and continue to provide work. This will provide us with a rapid recovery. This is the logic that we are really trying to support our economy and our people in really broad terms and with quite large sums of money. I would like to make a little bit of clarification that we are building not a oil shale oil refining plant, but an oil shale oil plant. It was up in the Committee on Economic Affairs on a long and wide scale today, but I would not like to go into this at the moment. If there's a wish, we can discuss it. We have a measure for the self-employed. The F.I.E.S. we've released the first quarter of advance payment. For those who have already made this tax, this money is essentially returned. For people working under a contract of command or a debt contract, this has been confirmed by the unemployment fund's measure. How it actually runs this week should start to run, and if there are any failures, we will try to solve them immediately. But our plan was and we were assured that this would happen: people working under the debt law contract will also be able to benefit from the unemployment fund measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U218	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U219	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The question is about the income base of local governments. Minister Aab has, in a number of press releases, given the assurance that the municipalities do not have to worry, the income base is not falling. Today, in your report, you pointed out that the reduction in the revenue base will be compensated, and there will be 70 million more for new investments. But if you look at the extra budget numbers, it's kind of creepy. The State has estimated that EUR 192 million of income tax will not be collected by the municipalities. At the same time, the State compensates or has foreseen to compensate for 30 million, which should cover the residual income tax plus all the costs covered by the crisis. A simple example of Rae rural municipality: One and a half months of compensation for parents for kindergarten pay costs EUR 150000. In addition to 30 million roads and 70 million additional investments, 130 million in total. It doesn't even get close to what the local governments are missing. Am I getting something wrong? For local authorities, perhaps there is too much in the promise of compensation that can't actually be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U220	Thank you. Yes, it is correct to say that the reduction in local government revenue is compensated, but not entirely. It is also important to bear in mind that, while the economic forecast made two more weeks ago had a decline in local government revenue of the order of 100 million, the new forecast had a significantly higher amount. But the compensatory measures we started discussing a little earlier. Maybe that's one of the reasons the scissors are in there. At the same time, it must certainly be pointed out that, just as the state is currently spending, there is a deficit, so that all local authorities can decide for themselves whether they want to make their own planned and budgeted expenditure and do so by taking their debts, or whether they want to, as has been repeatedly recommended in this Chamber, to look at the cost side. What is meant by this 30 million to compensate for the so-called anti-corona virus activity? Above all, we are talking about all kinds of measures relating to the social system. For example, if there is a need to provide more services to people in quarantine. When we talk about the costs of schools and other educational establishments, the Ministry of Education has a separate line of 15 million provided for private-interest education and private day-care centres. The loss of income from local governments, for example, is very different in local governments because of the loss of the place fee. Some of them don't, and some of them are pretty big. In this way, we do not have any universal solutions centrally foreseen at the moment. Every local authority has to think about how it operates. Examples are so- and so-and-so. There are local governments that immediately freed parents from these place fees, there are municipalities that did not do so. In my opinion, certain such subsidiarity principles and flexibility in the system are correct. However, all local governments are still able to make the planned costs, only in such a case they will have to finance part of the costs by borrowing a loan, like the central government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U221	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U222	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! In the context of resolving the crisis, we have quite a lot of talk about trust in the importance of wider social trust if we want people to act in the way they want and the leader of the emergency situation, as well as the government, to be able to implement their decisions quickly. This is actually true of the additional budget. The drafting and processing of the content of the supplementary budget must also be a process that enhances and does not undermine this trust. So what matters is not only what is being done, for example, whether people are being tested or whether the excise duty on diesel is being lowered, but also why it is being done and how it is done. And so, for this whole 2-billion package, it is important who will, under what conditions and for what purpose, receive funds from it. I am asking you to explain what this strategic plan is for which decisions have been taken. I am surprised by the statement that Tallink is so important that he cannot be bankrupted. I'm not arguing, I'm sure that's the case. But then do we have a list of companies that are so important that they cannot be bankrupted, and what are the companies that can...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U223	Question, please! There's only one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U224	...to be bankrupt in an emergency? Please explain the strategic plan on the basis of which the additional budget has been established.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U225	The members of the Riigikogu have been there for several weeks and now everything is behind the barrier. Why and how? Of course, why- and how-answers are an important part of the explanations that are being made. I gave you a brief overview of the financing of the companies when I answered Kristen Michal. Those companies that are so large in Estonia that their bankruptcy will cause our economy much more damage than saving them, after all, there is not much. And some of these big ones belong to large multinational corporations, and we expect parent companies to take care of them themselves. So this list can't be very long. But if you ask what this is in our main path, which we were based on when this budget was made, this most-most important objective is to keep maximum employment. That's the most important thing. That's what we do how? That is what we are doing by helping businesses to survive this crisis without starting to lay off. Yes, we understand that wage cuts have already been made here and there in several sectors. We hope that this crisis will be so short-lived that these cuts will be temporary. But our most important wish is that employment does not fall into the crater. At this rate, with the current measures, we can say that we have basically reason for optimism. We can see how roughly 500-1000 people are laid off a day. It's a significantly bigger number than it was two months ago, but it's a significantly smaller number than some black scenarios predicted for us in the meantime. We believe that these black scenarios have not come true thanks to the measures of our aid package. So that's our goal. That is our goal! I fully agree, I am also absolutely convinced that public power and the use of public money must be transparent, must be explanatory. Sometimes the explanation is that our calculation says that otherwise the damage is greater than the benefit. Or maybe the explanation is that this is domestic capital, and we need to look at domestic capital differently than any international big company. If that is the case, if that is the case with our arguments, then we must also say it honestly. But I should get a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U226	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U227	Thank you very much. My question concerns tourism. You said $25 million was pretty much included in the EAS for that. But do you know the volume of tourism services in Estonia? It's still hundreds of millions. For example, there are 17,000 beds alone. This is a highly labour-intensive sector and these 25 million to the tourism sector are less than flies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U228	Thank you. He's not that small. The tourism sector, if I remember correctly, gives a magnitude of 6 to 7% of GDP. Well, it's smaller now. Indeed, it is true that the sector is primarily labour-intensive, as usual in the service sector. Wages there are mostly not very large, depending, of course, on the specificity. In addition to the direct payments we have been talking about here, this 10 + 25 million, there are, after all, other KredEx measures that offer the possibility of working loans and guarantees. So we believe that in this combination, the amount to be directed there is actually significantly higher. I'll come back to the same Tallink. Of this 7 to 8%, a quarter is given by a single company. That's the same Tallink we're helping out with a separate, very considerable amount of money. We cannot take any of these measures in isolation, separately. They should all be combined and combined, and together these amounts will be significantly higher than 10 or 25 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U229	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U230	Thank you. My question concerns health care for extra money, because I am convinced that a million dollars saved there can cost the economy 10 or even 100 million. I'm asking you that a lot of people with symptoms are still not tested and they don't know if they've recovered, whether they recovered from the flu or from the corona. Nor do we have an overview of the presence of antibodies in humans and a broader picture of how many have already recovered. This, in turn, means that it is very difficult for the government to decide when we could start getting out of the crisis and relaxing restrictions, which is a huge burden on the economy. I understand very well that there are all sorts of reasons for restricting testing, but many say that the lack of money is still one of those bottlenecks. My question is: if we now accept this extra budget, can you assure us that then testing will not be behind the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U231	Thank you. I can confirm right now that testing is not going to be behind the money. No money! Of course, I don't need to be convinced about this, I'm a falcon for testing, I'd like to test the entire nation, and many times. I think that an integral part of the exit strategy is that we systematically continue to test beyond the detection of infection sites as soon as possible, but also to identify people who have developed immunity. We have to have this picture in front of us. I can assure you that testing in the Government Crisis Committee is a key issue that is strongly on the table every day. Depending on what phase we have reached in the health crisis, we understandably change our tactics and change testing. Testing is different in nature. Some test the virus, others test antibodies to the virus, others test other things and give out information in different ways at different times. What can I assure you? Two things I can confirm. First of all, the money isn't behind it right now. Although I think there will be cheaper tests than the ones we have now, and that's where we're going. We are in a situation where medical equipment, which paid EUR 25000 in the middle of February, costs EUR 78000 today, the same box. Well, some say capitalism works, as a result, there will be a whole lot of good new offers on the market, but these prices are currently not adequate. We must have a little more time to find out what tests are reliable and workable and what can be obtained in addition to what has been done. We are currently experiencing serious difficulties in obtaining all kinds of medical supplies. But certainly in the near future, we will be able to put in place a testing strategy that meets public expectations, the demands of health professionals and the government's exit strategy from the crisis. I don't know what else to say right now. But we're working on it. After all, we have already moved very well, instead of their first phase of a few dozen and a few hundred tests, we have several thousand tests done. And the problem that people who have wanted to be tested and didn't get mass has actually been solved by today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U232	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U233	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There is one line in this supplementary budget where 142 million contributions from the second pension pillar are temporarily suspended. My colleague Jürgen Ligi asked you earlier about the expertise of all these decisions or something like that, and then you said such a great sentence that the second pillar dispute is another dispute. And then you also explained that sometimes it is enough to explain when the calculation says that the overall benefit is higher than the loss. Please, could you specify for how long the contributions from the second pillar will be suspended? And still, this benefit-damage theme also, maybe everyone here knows, but I'd be happy if you could talk a little bit about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U234	Thank you. Yes, suspension of second pillar payments... I might start further away. I would start by saying that this idea was not invented by the current government, it has been practiced over time, and it has been re-used today. Ten years ago, there was a similar solution. The suspension of payments under the second pillar will then be as follows: With effect from 1 July 2020, the State shall suspend all its 4% contributions and all participants in the second pillar shall continue their 2% contributions. Over the next few months, the state will be working on setting up and putting up IT solutions in order to give all people the opportunity to choose whether they want to continue paying their 2% in October this year or whether they want to end it. For all those who stop paying their 2%, the state will no longer compensate for anything. This scheme shall apply until 31 August 2021 to all those who continue to pay their 2%. On 1 September 2021, the reform of the second pillar of pensions will be launched according to our strong faith or conviction, and all people will be able to join or leave voluntarily anyway. However, for the period from 1 July 2020 to 31 August 2021, the State will not pay its own 4%. For those people who continue with their 2%, the state will compensate the missing 4% for 14 months in a double period of time, i.e. within 28 months, by placing not 4% but 6% on their recovered payments, i.e. dividing the missing 4% into two and then paying it back twice over the period of time. It's basically the exact same scheme as last time. Of course, for those who continued to pay 2% until October of their choice, this period will be paid for a shorter period of five months. Those who continue after October will then be paid for the entire period, i.e. 14 months. With this move, the country will save quite a lot this year by increasing its tax revenue by a share of social tax, i.e. 143 or, I don't remember, 147 million euros, and then a little more, in the next year, about 200 million euros. In total, for this 14-month period, the country's social tax receipts are higher by about 350 million. It should also be added that all those who have been suspended by 4% will at that time have higher payments under the first pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U235	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U236	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. 25 million cultures today are a very right and very encouraging step, but this picture is blurred by a specific allocation. How will the purchase of the Olympics transfer rights help to resolve the current crisis? After all, the EUR 500000 allocated by the Minister of Culture to the Estonian National Broadcasting does not cover all the costs needed to show the Olympic Games, and in this case the ERR needs more money. At the moment, the only winner here in this crisis situation is the Postimees Group, who would get rid of its million-dollar commitment, and lose the ERR, who is going to have a budget gap. In addition, other private media representatives will have a legitimate question, and what will then be their support. And does the ERR have to give up additional resources if the Olympic right is not purchased? So I had several questions, I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U237	Thank you. It must be said, as always when commenting on the explanatory memorandum to the state budget, that for the various areas of government of the input, these areas of government do themselves. It must also be said that this additional budget itself and its explanatory statement took place in a very, very short period of time, which is why we have failed to go over this with the normal procedure. I am making it perfectly clear that this is the thinking of the Minister for Culture, which has not been discussed or approved by the government. And since all the money we're allocating here has been agreed to be approved by the government, today, to say that this is going to happen, certainly cannot. I share your view that I do not think that this is a reasonable cost. Well, we'll get an exact distribution of what it's going to look like later on in the work. What I know, having been in contact with some of the members of the Council, is that a general attitude within the Council, in my understanding or according to information known to me, does not support the purchase of rights to show the Olympic Games. But I certainly do not have a full picture of the preferences or attitudes of the members of the Council. I imagine you're better at this picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U238	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U239	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You're very interesting to listen to. On the one hand, it is as if you applaud the resolution of the 2009 crisis and take over from it the solutions relating to the second pillar of pension, the interruption of payments made there. But these crises are not at all comparable, as has been said by specialists. And on the other hand, it's actually a confirmation that you've already started cutting, and you're cutting at the expense of our children and our future. If the last governments had driven fiscal policy sensibly, today's pensions should not be concerned and should not be justified by the fact that current pensions must be paid out. But now you're also talking about local governments and you're saying they shouldn't be cutting costs right now. However, it has to be acknowledged that it did not take a few days to put in place an emergency situation when some municipalities already sent letters to sports clubs, for example, and said that we would halve your benefits. As a minister, are you aware of this and do you consider it right?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U240	Thank you. Well, for starters, it's never the case that everything's wrong and bad. Even the current government does not do everything wrong and badly and was not done in 2009. I am aware of this, and I think that such steps were in some sense driven by the momentum of the moment. In a way, they were like premature panic attacks. Nor can it be ruled out that, in some cases, it was political in some respects. I don't think it's been right. A large number of the measures that we are adopting with this additional budget have been taken precisely in view of the fact that such decisions should not be taken and that the activities of such organisations can continue normally after the crisis, so that they do not stop in the meantime, disband, go bankrupt, do not end all their employment relations and contractual relations. Against this, we are trying to take steps with this budget. However, I am, in general, a great supporter of the autonomy of local governments. They must have the right to decide within their own budget and within their own sub-offices. Nor can anyone be told here that you will necessarily have to make these costs if these costs are not compensated by tax revenue or in any other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U241	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U242	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I will continue on the second pillar. You said that the revenue from social tax is higher for the country as a result of this suspension. Well, it's not. Social tax still gets exactly the same amount. You're cutting those payments that would otherwise go to second-pillar pension fund owners. And speaking of compensation, I don't think it's enough just to compensate for the nominal amount. After all, the return that comes during this period is also important. And in that case, if we also take the return into account and assume that it's going to be positive, because once the bottom is crossed and the markets start to rise, it's definitely the right time to buy shares. In this case, the measure is more expensive than the financing of the same costs through a State loan. Why do you choose the more expensive option?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U243	Well, it's not like we're taking the payments away. We'll take it and put it back. That's where we ended up at the end of the question anyway. It's not like we're gonna take it, we're gonna take it, we're gonna put it back. Yeah, in a way, we're gonna finance it. And with the return, it's a very powerful assumption that there will be no return at all. If we look back at the time series, if we look at today's day, the last months, or look forward to the economic situation, no depends on how big the optimist or how big the pessimist to be, then the assumption of return is a very bold assumption. But I still want to explain the scheme we have. The scheme is that we're interrupting payments right now. This percentage of the person's first pension pillar is increasing, and this is a much safer thing than the part of the second pension pillar, a much safer thing! Well, maybe it's a matter of attitude, but it seems to us. And at that time, when this compensation takes place, it does not take place on the basis of any calculated returns or current prices, or even on the basis of the salary of the time when 4% was not paid. This is from 2023 to 2022, or it was from 2022, and I can get confused at the moment when we start making this compensation, on the basis of a person's income-dependent social tax. I repeat: this is the same model as in 2009 and 2010. It may well be that at that time the person's income is higher than, for example, in August of this year, but it may well be that he or she has a lower income at that time. In retrospect, in the case of the 2010 example, we have calculated that there were individual winners and losers, but on average there was no big difference between people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U244	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U245	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! While we were discussing large and strategically important companies earlier, I would now rather ask about the smaller ones. I think you too have probably received input from the Small and Medium Enterprises Association. We also received a letter from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the political groups in which they express their concern about the conditions of the various KredEx measures and ask whether they are also the smallest ones. The trouble comes in the same way, or it's already happened. Please describe the attitude towards all these financial plans. In the case of KredEx, there is a situation where the state actually gets more money for borrowing. The percentage of credit received from KredEx is 4% or 6% depending on whether the loan taken is personally secured. What's the plan? A large number of Estonian companies are small or medium-sized.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U246	Thank you. The first thing I say is that the KredEx measures are still being developed. They had a council meeting this week. Maybe it was yesterday. I don't know, I'm sorry, I've lost my period. They just had a meeting on Friday or this morning, I don't know exactly, and they have another meeting on Wednesday. These terms are intended to be ready for Thursday's government meeting. We really want these measures to go quickly and be usable. There's a lot of nuances. You brought it out here that it's hard for the little ones to get close. But also larger and medium-sized companies say that they have their limitations in front of them, some kind of ceiling in front that's blocking them. These nuances are currently being dealt with in order to make the system as flexible and as usable as possible. However, as far as the percentage is concerned, this is probably a situation where very many small businesses have never actually asked for or received commercial loans from credit institutions and they compare commercial loans with personal real estate loans or housing loans, where indeed the percentages are around 2. And then they look at a business loan and they say, ups, 41⁄2 percent, it's a robbery. In fact, it is a normal market price. KredEx operates under market conditions and a business loan has a different price than a home loan. So it could just be because of some kind of delusion. I see two important nuances here that I would like to emphasise. The first is that getting a loan in today's situation is a very big deal. Secondly, we are putting Estonian taxpayers' money in it, and we assume that this money is not going into a black hole, but actually earns that this percentage is something to cover, for example, those loans that go sour or cannot be served. This will help us not pay for this whole operation, this whole scheme, but it'll be more or less zero. Money risk has its own price in any case. But I think that at the moment this percentage is a significantly lower topic than the availability of money itself. We're really working on it. I have dealt with it myself, it has been dealt with by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, has been dealt with by officials and has been dealt with by politicians so that these conditions are designed in such a way that this money is actually used.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U247	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U248	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You were quite optimistic in your supplementary budget speech. You said that the economy could grow to pre-crisis levels next year. Well, optimism is nice and welcome, but you're gonna have to watch a little critical. You also said earlier that at the end of the month there was EUR 1 billion in the liquidity reserve, but you did not say that the majority of this billion was newly raised loan money. Are these optimistic forecasts still taking into account that the economic cycle may have reversed? We will still be able to escape very easily if we look at your predictions that this year there will be a steep spike down, but next year we are already on the road to growth, and this ten-year rise cycle will continue to flourish. Is it not perhaps overly optimistic that forecast, which is based on the additional budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U249	Thank you. Perhaps last week or the week before, when we presented the previous forecast of the Ministry of Finance, 18 March, you, Aivar, spoke with a speech that Helme's forecast was too optimistic. Well, still too optimistic. However, who have been sitting in the Committee on Monetary Affairs or the Ministry of Finance for a little while, they know that the Minister does not make predictions. No, I'm not! There's a whole department out there making predictions for that. And when I put my hand to my heart, I can say that I have never sat on their heads in any way and said, "Make it light bluer or darker." They're making the forecast they're making. And both in the forecast of 18 March and in the forecast of 31 March, it was fore and behind us that we have very poor visibility, that it is very difficult for us to predict at all, because there are many variables and there is no trend. The chain of events has been short. Where it's going and where it's going, it's really hard to say. What's the pretty bureaucratic word again? That the error limits of the forecast are wide or whatever little stars were attached to it. And there's nothing else to say, and the error limits are wide. I do not dispute that this is an optimistic scenario. I'm not talking about a percentage here or there, whether it's 3, 6, 8, or 10. I sincerely believe that if our economic measures, which we are now implementing, are effective, the damage will be significantly less than the 8% minus that this forecast offers. But it is rather a question of optimism as to how long the economic recovery will last, how deep the recession is, how deep we fall and how long or flat or hard the recovery will be. Here, of course, things do not depend solely on Estonia itself; they also depend, of course, on what is happening with our main trading partners. Much depends on what health measures and economic stimulus measures are being implemented by different countries. When I look at what Germany is doing, I see that Germany is significantly more aggressive and significantly more generous in stimulating the economy than Estonia. The same can be said of Denmark. However, some other countries that, by the way, also have a higher debt burden can't afford such generous measures to stimulate the economy. And these measures are also different. Most countries are immediately working on labour market measures to keep people's incomes, but from there there there are very large discrepancies: those dealing with specific economic sectors that are dealing with the tax side that is dealing with the fiscal side here. Takes are different. For example, Trump, who basically declared that all people were paid into a bank account. A country with its own money is also an opportunity. But in this situation, predicting where we are, I don't know, in a year, is going to be very, very difficult right now. When we usually talk about the country's budgetary strategy process, where the macroeconomic analysis lasts for months and in a stable economic environment, the error limits are still relatively broad. Now want to do the whole analysis in a few weeks or actually in a few days, well, the further into the future we're going with this analysis a few months away or a few more months away, the more blurred it gets for us. That is why, when discussing the cuts, we came to the conclusion that we are getting some better picture in the summer forecast and, on the basis of the summer forecast, we are making a budget for 2021. In the 2021 budget, we can see what has worked on our actions, which have not worked, whether there is a need for any action in the past. But whether this forecast is optimistic or pessimistic, all we can say right now is purely abdominal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U250	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U251	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I share Mr Annely's concerns about the tourism sector. It is very nice that you are aware, but if you move in Pärnu, we will see that the hotels are closed, the spas are closed, the restaurants are closed, the cafes are closed, Lottemaa is closed. The turnover of all of them is virtually zero. I think there's enough of that 25 million at best for a couple or three months. So this is definitely one of the keywords that you could take from here: the tourism sector should still be kept alive. But another concern that has been completely overlooked: you have pointed out that private consumption has suffered a very severe setback, but we have heard nothing about shopping centres and trading companies. In fact, we have one in nine employees working in trade. Not now, because they're sitting at home, but basically on the payroll, they're there. And they have come up with concrete measures. For example, one rental measure has been put in place, some EUR 3 million per month. It's a change from the numbers you brought up, but there's no agreement with these people. Do we have to wait for any subsequent reorganisations or bankruptcy after the T1 Template? Rather, it would be wise to prevent it, which has been one of your messages.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U252	Thank you. I haven't seen Pärnu in a couple of weeks, but hotels are closed in Tallinn as well as museums, cinemas and restaurants. This is the current reality, and we all hope that it will be temporary. We all hope it will last for a few more months at most. From there, some kind of recovery should begin. Of course, this recovery will not take place with a bang, overnight. Foreign tourists, I think, will probably have no reason to wait a long time in Estonia as large numbers. Maybe by next summer or next spring, the situation will return to normal. At the same time, I believe that domestic tourism is more receptive, that our people have no chance of going somewhere warmer, and even if travel flights recover, there is less courage to go further. But people still want to get out of the house. So I hope that in some way it balances the balance, but we're having a very difficult time evaluating it today. Coming to trade, I assure you, I've been in contact with the trade people. What's the name of this organization, the Merchant Association, all of a sudden? Indeed, there have been many professional associations and organisations that have approached the government. I have tried to read all their letters, and I have been able to communicate directly with some of them. One thing we have wanted to do is that our measures, including labour market measures, are so universal that we do not need any special measure for each individual institution or individual sector. But it is clear that trade simply because we have largely closed shops as an emergency decision needs special attention. That $3 million sum they calculated at my request. I wanted an overview of how big the rental market in one month is, how many square meters there are, what the sums are and what their proposals are. I have addressed Taavi Asa and Jüri Ratas in the same way. I think it's wise to go help them. What exactly are these sums, I can't tell you today. But I think that this aid is also reasonable in the context that if we do not do so, we will definitely get court actions. We'd better make a deal, and we'll do it before they go down in the real water, with their stomach upside down. Everyone should benefit from it. This type of measure is one of the reasons why we have asked the Riigikogu for a very large government reserve, because we cannot cover such expenses anywhere else than from the government reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U253	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U254	Thank you. A large government reserve is certainly reasonable, but you did not answer my question of where you take the authority to claim to the Committee on Monetary Affairs that these measures will halve the recession. Instead, you argued against the introductory part of my story. I can comment on that now. But please answer my first question at least. Eesti Pank does not recommend such a fall in excise duty. You were talking here about the independence of the forecasts, but you were bragging about how the economy was good. Eesti Pank and other experts do not recommend suspending payments of the second pillar. You're still suggesting. We're talking about listening to experts, listening to forecasters, don't replace them. So please answer the question of where this authority is to make such claims simply from the point of view of your conviction.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U255	Gives God a job, gives reason, doesn't he? Where I take this authority, voters gave a mandate, there comes that authority. As far as Eesti Pank is concerned, I read Eesti Pank's assessment differently. Yeah, about the suspension of second pillar payments, they say it's unreasonable. To a large extent, their arguments relate to this major ideological dispute about the usefulness or harm of the second pillar at all. Fine! However, as far as the reduction of excise duties is concerned, they say that this is not a targeted measure, that it is an over-the-counter measure and that their recommendation is more specific, sector-specific. But they don't say it's bad or wrong, they don't say it. They say this is not a targeted measure. But not all measures may be targeted, some may be over the field. If our philosophy is, if our position is that we have to press money into the economy in the current situation, then that is one way to press money into the economy. Improving consumer purchasing power has certainly been achieved through this measure. Now, half the reduction in the recession. I asked the people of the Ministry of Finance to calculate it. They said they wouldn't be able to calculate it in such a short time. I have not asked Eesti Pank for this number. But if you ask me where I'm taking this number, I got this number with a very simple calculation. We look at the volume of our economic aid package, we put it in a relationship with GDP, and that's about where we get to. Whether it is a little more or a little less than it works effectively, it is not possible that we will pour several billion euros into the economy and have no positive impact on GDP. [[They say something in the hall.]] Yeah, okay, I know all these arguments, I understand all of this, but it's not the same calculation. If we, say, cut by the state and miss spending, everyone will understand that this has an impact on the volume of the economy. In other words, if the state is borrowing and this loan is essentially a loan from outside Estonia and directed towards the economy, let's say, to increase activity, it must have a clear impact on GDP growth. There's no way it's not. In that case, the money, well, basically should go somewhere in the mudhole, but it won't. That's how we calculated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U256	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U257	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would still come back to people working in beauty services: coaches and hairdressers who have worked under a contract of command or employment so far, and to self-employed people, all of whom have 50,000 people in total. I specify that really 10000 of them could receive support from the unemployment fund if they change their contract and if their contract could be converted into an employment contract, but the remaining 40,000 are still without cover. The government's administrative decision has taken away their work, they have no income. The self-employed have exactly the same story. We can make a tax credit or a refund for the self-employed and the rest of these people, but if you have zero income, it'll save you from not being in debt, but you won't get more money from anywhere. I don't think the number of people that are now in trouble somehow got out of your attention. Please tell me what the argument is, why they are not in this package. And what about these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U258	Thank you. As regards the people who have worked on a contract of command, there is one solution proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs or the unemployment fund, which I do not know exactly which. It's that you can't renegotiate the contract afterwards. I don't think that's a very reasonable solution. But there was one thing that was very clear, and for that we gave very clear guidance from the government: it is that everyone who has received social tax should go under this measure. If necessary, we will clarify this, it must also reach the implementation of this measure. But that was the deal in the government. As far as the self-employed are concerned, I fully agree: self-employed people are a separate issue. There are not so many registered self-employed people, I am trying to remember now, if I remember correctly, the number of registered self-employed persons was in the order of 17000 and, of these, the so-called active size of 5,000. I'm sorry if I'm wrong about the numbers right now. We believe that a large proportion of these self-employed people will either be covered by a measure developed by the Ministry of Culture or by a micro-enterprises measure. They should be covered there. Of course, it cannot be said that it is guaranteed that every last person in Estonia will fit under all these measures. But in the orders of magnitude, we think we've covered everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U259	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U260	Thank you. The issue to be clarified is once again the issue of local governments. I would like to reiterate that the additional budget states that 192 million will not be collected by the municipalities and 30 million will then be planned to cover the same outstanding money, as well as the costs of combating the virus. In addition, 70 million are foreseen to make additional investments, as if not foreseen by the local authorities. I understand that it is difficult in times of crisis and there is no money either in the state or in the local authorities, but I think the problem is that we are sending the wrong message that you do not have to save, even though there are 130 million scissors. Do you not think that even this 70 million, which is currently intended to be provided with the clause that it must be used for new investments rather than for budget planning, could still be directed towards the local governments to cover the revenue foregone and perhaps to create an additional measure for LAs to obtain a zero-interest loan from the state, in order to alleviate even a little of the hole that is to come. At the moment, the local government leaders have a very wrong understanding of things, and I am thinking of the message issued by Minister Abi.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U261	Thank you. No 192 minus 130 is 62 million, not that big of a hole. But I admit there's a deficit between these two numbers. We really do want to, and this is a very clearly aware choice, so that the extra money we are giving for investment does not replace the planned expenditure of the local authorities themselves. [[The floor shall be specified.]] Yeah, it's true. But otherwise we will see that they will cancel all their spending so far and instead use the money given by the state. It doesn't serve the purpose we have. We want investment and other costs that can be brought forward in time to be intensified and brought forward at the moment. Now, what are we doing to support local governments? We are changing (this is my next item on the agenda) the model for calculating the loan, relaxing the rules for obtaining the loan, which apply to local governments. We follow from the simple logic that the absolute majority of local governments in Estonia are actually very well-borrowed and can significantly increase the share of their loans if they want to. At the same time, we see a slight problem here that we have some half a dozen municipalities that are currently right under the loan ceiling and when the income base falls, they shift upwards without making any moves. In that case, we need to start treating them "specially" and rejuvenating them and what else. We do not think that this should be done right now. So general philosophy is still what I said before. If the state is currently taking a very heavy debt burden to stimulate the economy, then local authorities should do the same and not start aggressively cutting their spending. At least this year's expenses should be covered. We can't give them all the money we need for this, but to some extent we compensate for the deficit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U262	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U263	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I didn't intend to ask you a question about the second pillar, but your response to the Urve Tiidu illustrated so well what is wrong with the extra budget that we have to ask. In your previous answer to my question, you put it nicely that the focus is on employment, keeping people at work. We support companies so that they do not have to lay off, and we support people so that they do not leave the labour market. That's right! Then why can't we keep this focus? That's the flag on the flag, the patch on the cloth. Another pillar, too, maybe something else? This may seem a trivial question, but your answer illustrated very well that it is not. You described how the state's IT development resource now goes quickly in order to start accepting and changing the declarations of the second pillar. Would it not be necessary to use this resource to obtain different IT solutions in a crisis situation? In public communication, it is very important to make it clear to people what rules must be followed in a crisis situation. You spent ten minutes trying to tell Urve Tiidus what the suspension mechanism for second pillar payments looks like. How could this be achieved by public communication to all those who have to make their decision by 1 October? In a crisis situation, it is very important to keep focus. An ambulance who revives doesn't go to warm soup in the meantime. Why the state budget...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U264	Question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U265	Why has the additional budget failed to keep the focus on resolving the crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U266	Well, another minute and a half! This change in IT systems is actually part of the whole of the second pillar reform and the implementation of the second pillar reform. So we're not taking any separate steps. We specifically tried to set up this whole suspension of payments in such a way that we would not get up to date with our second pillar reform and related development work. Both the choice of dates and the planning of all kinds of technical solutions we had in mind. Now out of focus. Yes, I admit that when we discussed this matter in the government, the question arose that this would undoubtedly create a lot of political controversy and also opposition. Is that what we're gonna do then, is it worth it? As far as payback is concerned, I said earlier: 350 million in 14 months. Whether it's a lot or not, it's a question of evaluation. Before we talked about the stabilisation reserve, it was thought that there was a very large amount of money in the stabilisation reserve of the same magnitude. I agree, it is. 350 million is a lot of money. And now, in principle, the question arises of whether this money is worth more or less than maintaining the so-called integrity of this system, knowing that we will reform this system in a year and a half anyway. Apparently, there are different answers to this question, depending on what the view of the world is. The government's answer is that this money is worth more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U267	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U268	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question concerns state aid in this context when companies are being supported. I use this soup warming analogy: if some companies are warming up their soup from the side and another company has to keep its soup warm somehow, then the question arises of equal treatment. I know that the European Union is allowing certain relaxations in the context of state aid, at least such a signal has been sent out. But the principle of equal treatment in the Estonian Constitution also applies to legal persons. And the question is, in what way are these more targeted measures still to be implemented. When we talk about tax cuts, credit guarantees, etc., this question does not arise, but when we talk about strategic purchases of one company mentioned here, is there, for example, a less bid in which companies can offer their participations for less money, or in what way is a fair decision being taken, which companies are going to be helped, which sectors are going to be helped?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U269	Thank you. This is certainly a very important issue. It is true that the European Commission has clearly relaxed state aid rules and is currently granting state aid permits at lightning speed. If it usually takes a year or a half to obtain a State aid response, then it will now be received in a few days. That's nice. Now about equal treatment. I have already marked it a few times that it is important for us that the rules are as universal as possible and as transparent as possible. Ultimately, such very big decisions are discretionary decisions anyway: either we go to one or another specific company with a specific loan or we say go to KredEx. Our first preference is always to say that you go to KredEx, but if the volume of the current loan that we allocate to KredEx with this budget is 500 million and one or two or three companies basically raise that money out of there, then we are at the other end of the broken trough: this KredEx measure is not really going to work. In such a case, it makes sense to fund and rescue the same company or two or three companies. Well, make an isolated case. But this is ultimately the point of consideration. And it will undoubtedly take place under the attention of the very serious public, and there is no doubt that the government must be able to justify it well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U270	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U271	Thank you. I will continue with the questions of funding in the area of health. When these restrictions were imposed, they had two main justifications. One is, of course, to reduce the transmission of infection, and the other is, of course, to improve the health system's capacity to deal with significantly more patients, including those in intensive care. Of course, I, too, hope that we all hope that the capacity of Estonian hospitals will not be lacking, but it is our duty as a parliament to prepare for the worst and to increase preparedness to make sure that we can manage. What options will provide for an additional budget to increase the preparedness of intensive care facilities? And is it possible to name specific amounts and specific objectives, quantitative targets including?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U272	There has been a series of specific decisions. It is undoubtedly important to decide on the procurement of PPE, and it is also necessary for the system to work. But the most specific decision was to allocate money or to say that we have money to buy more breathing appliances. Now I have to start looking after my notes. We're talking about a size 175 new breathing apparatus. The cost of an average breathing apparatus is about EUR 25000. Their producers are very few in the world. We have also mentioned that, as far as possible, all such resources should be produced in Estonia. We have done well in this sense that we actually produce both disinfectants and breathing masks and other personal protective equipment in Estonia and we have increased this production in Estonia. After all, we are currently living according to the laws of the jungle: these same instruments may be hijacked in other countries by bringing them from somewhere else in the world. So the fact that we produce these things ourselves, firstly, ensures that we have this stock and, secondly, obviously in the future, guarantees a certain series of export items. The production of breathing equipment is a much more complex piece than the production of breathing masks, but it has also been studied. Our main concern is that the machines that we have ordered and for which we are prepared to pay and for which the government has foreseen a cost line from this special-purpose reserve of COVID-19 would actually arrive in Estonia. According to the promises, they should be here in a few weeks, if no one at any airport is just gonna take them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U273	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Your answer to Mr Ligi's question was such a vulgar-naivist hiatus that the money does not disappear into the molehole, the economy must grow. It's more of a humour thing. After all, there are a lot of measures, and the Nobel Prize was awarded for the fact that the economy is emotional. But my question is that you have said that there will be no cuts in the public sector. This is your message. I think this message is both wrong and unfair. Firstly, there will be no cuts, as the state budget will, unfortunately, decrease in this year and next year, and also in the years to come. Don't you think it's unfair that you tell the private sector that you'll get a paycheck if you lay off 30% or lower wages by 30%, and then the same news tells us that cuts in the state apparatus are not waiting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U275	First of all, I'm happy to be able to give you a sense of humor at this evening's hour. Secondly, I think you've got something wrong. Our labour market action is not structured in such a way that either 30% will be made redundant or 30% will be reduced. It certainly doesn't motivate that. It is built on the fact that companies with so many problems that they have been forced to send people home or have been forced to cut wages can replace their salary costs from the unemployment fund at present. It's something entirely different. And I have already said that I fully agree that when making the 2021 budget, I need to look at the expenditure side very seriously, and there is no need to convince me. But I think it's a bit primitive logic to suggest that we start making a lot of cuts in the public sector today. I don't know why, but it's assumed to be a wage cut in the first place, not some other cost cut, but I'd start from somewhere else, look at operating costs and maybe investments, because there's still a lot of spending, which is very incomprehensible to the purpose. If we were to do this, we would actually be giving more impetus to redundancies and wage cuts in the private sector as well. That is the logic of an absolutely inevitable economy. If the state does not help to maintain the functioning of the economy at its own expense, it will further reduce tax receipts. Estonia is still the largest VAT payer in Estonia. Estonia also has a very large social tax payer Estonia. We all understand that this will only exacerbate our recession, which will further increase the need to cut back in the future. Why should we be so stupid that we want to rush into this vortex, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U276	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U277	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We have now learned that our pride or, in a sense, our high self-esteem due to the state's digital capacity has been justified. It is a pity that this can be proven in such circumstances, but the ability to do telework, the ability of e-schools, compared to other countries, is exceptionally good. But that's it. My question relates to the last mile of support in scattered settlements. Along with a lot of question marks, it's very good to read. Can you explain a little how many households this last mile support might actually affect?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U278	Thank you. I have to admit, I'm getting awfully nervous about this "mile." There are no miles in Estonia, there wasn't even a tsar. Somehow, however, he has begun to live his life. I didn't make a comment to the questioner right now, just try to introduce some other expression, even "the last kilometer." However, in recent years, on average, the share of these households has been spent in the order of EUR 5 million. So we're talking about three times the amount now, and at least 50,000 homes should be connected. I have realized that there are about four times as many homes that are either completely unconnected or whose connection is of poor quality. This number is kind of deceiving, isn't it? Doesn't mean there's no Internet in these homes, probably there's a "over-air internet" or some kind of not-so-fast internet. However, I would like to point out in particular with regard to this last km measure that we have said that it is specifically intended for scattered places, that is to say, rural areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U279	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U280	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Your party's rhetoric also includes sentences such as 'If it's black, show the door'. If we look at the crisis package, we will see that this slogan has actually been implemented in the case of foreign workers. This makes the agricultural sector particularly sad. There have been a variety of sensible proposals on how to ensure, on the one hand, safety for public health and, on the other hand, that spring seed can land and fall crop up. At the same time, we see what's happening all over the world. For example, Germany has concluded a national agreement that around 40,000 migrant workers will be admitted to seasonal work in April-May, which will also be subject to health conditions. Germany has recognised that if they do not allow migrant workers in this sector and do not allow this added value to be created, they will simply have to pay for it the other way round. What is the basis for the belief of members of our government that in such a short time it will be possible to employ existing unemployed people for spring work when the multi-week search for gardening enterprises has ended with a result of one-two-three people who are ready to come to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U281	Thank you. I'm gonna start by saying that I'm not such a brave man to tell the Ukrainians that they're black. But I think it's a complete pseudo-issue. This is a complete pseudo-issue for a number of reasons. Firstly, in March, in the agricultural sector, the work permit ends with 300 people and in April, if I remember correctly, 200 people. We're talking about 500 people. We are talking about this against the background that about 1000 people lose their jobs every day in Estonia. We are saying this against the background of the fact that the Ukrainian state itself will not let people out, perhaps not let its people come to work here. And we are saying this in this context, for example, that we are being brought to the labour market, which basically no longer exists. We are talking about last season, where there was a shortage of labour in Estonia. There is no longer a shortage of labour in Estonia. And like tourist businesses, like entertainment companies, like schools or any other institution, farms must adapt to this situation. I've had a number of appointments several years ago, when I was still in opposition with various agricultural organisations who were busy lobbying to bring cheap labour into Estonia. And quite successfully, they have done this lobby in Estonia. Even now, they are quite successful in their propaganda. I asked them several times that, well, you say that your actions do not stand for you to pay the average wage in Estonia, but how long do you intend to do so? In that case, your business model is built on a completely wrong starting point. Well, you need some kind of buffer time to introduce a new business model. How long? How many years? Now we see the answer: they want to endlessly. But now you can't have it. No, I don't weep for them. I think it is time to hire Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U282	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U283	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I wouldn't go into the details of the extra budget right now, I'm going to ask you a little bit more in principle. There are certainly situations in this crisis where there is an urgent need to react, where expenditure decisions are urgent, but in general we know what needs to be done. However, we do not know how long the crisis will last and what it will be like in different phases. We do not know what it is in June, what it is like in September, not to mention December. What was the reason you decided to come out with several things at once? Perhaps it would have been more appropriate to come back with the so-called first additional budget week-two in a slightly smaller volume, where short-term measures and financial allocations would then have been set. And, for example, the end of May or June would have left those subjects that would suffer for a little while. Why was this choice, what were these considerations?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U284	Well, it's very difficult to agree on what kind of things can be delayed and what kind can't. I wouldn't know what kind of measures are that we could say we think, wait, see a little bit. Especially in a situation like the one you just described, where we have a lot of unpredictable and unexpectedness. And I also do not think that it would be very reasonable for us from the point of view of procedural economics to come before the Riigikogu every month or every two months with a new supplementary budget. If I admit it quite honestly, I think it would give the impression that we're doing our job very dirty, that we're coming here with some raw stuff. I'd try to avoid it. We are talking about measures here, there was also the previous item and there is also the next item. After all, we can argue about the details of whether one or the other specific legislative amendment is now urgently necessary or whether one or the other economic measure needs to be implemented immediately. But they all relate in one way or another to the corona crisis, the health crisis and the resulting economic crisis. Are they all of equal weight, importance? Absolutely not. To be perfectly honest, whether or not a meeting of the Board of the Guarantee Fund can be held as a remote meeting within the next item of the agenda package, the world will probably not stop if it is missed. However, KredEx always yells that they need it now. Certain changes requested by the Ministry of Social Affairs are always screaming. For example, disability assessments have already stopped because the evaluation committees cannot meet. Actually, we're already breaking the law, aren't we? So these changes are of different weight, different urgency, but they are all linked to the corona crisis. I also have to be honest with you that it hasn't been exactly like this, that there hasn't been a sieve. At first, three times more things were carried on the table, and then they started pushing them through a sieve. So in this sense, it may be absolutely true that we are coming with some sort of next package either before Midsummer Day or in summer. I can certainly not rule out this right now, but I would like to try to make everything happen at once, to give as clear a picture as possible, to give legal clarity to both the public and the legislator by the government, which then is and is not. I think it's rational.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U285	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U286	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am a little concerned about the conflicting messages given to local authorities. I listened very carefully when you said that the reduction in local government revenue would be compensated, but not entirely. And now that I read your colleague's minister Jaak Aab's circular or command tables to the municipalities, he says, "Do not start cutting your expenses and investments just in case." It also says that you should avoid redundancy, wage cuts, compulsory leave for workers or restrictions on planned investments. I get the impression that Jaak Aab has a little more money than you do, which I doubt, but you can read it out of his promises and command tables. I hope that you will not now advise the municipalities to start buying petrol, for example, for this additional loan. It was once done in Pärnu, years ago, it was fixed up for ten years. So my message is that it's still time to see how you can narrow down a little. This message is needed, not to let go, the party is going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U287	Thank you. Well, I have to say, first of all, I don't have any money. I don't have any money. I don't have any euro money, all of it is taxpayers' money. I have sometimes told my good colleagues from the government that I have the easiest life, that others make fun of some implementing agencies, and I don't know what else. I don't have anything. I also have to say that I do not think the government can give command boards to the local government, but it can send, yes, out any signals related to the budget. And this is a signal I am sure to overconfirm: it is our wish that local authorities do not abandon their investments, do not engage in redundancy or pay cuts. At least this year's budget costs could be borne by them, the same as the government's. I think it's systematically the same thing we're all saying. Now, how do you match that? I guess he's still hooked up with the loan money. That's what I've said many times. Jaak Aab, of course, communicates much more often and much harder with the local authorities, so I may have missed some of his press releases, but I think our message is very coherent all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U288	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U289	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'll come back for a moment to a possible acquisition of holdings in larger companies. There are certainly a number of crucial steps to be taken in this process. One of them is that, before any transaction, the value of these companies must be assessed by an independent investment bank or an audit firm with the competence to do so. It is certainly important to have a shareholder agreement; it is certainly important to have exit conditions. Maybe you'll open up a little bit more of how you've planned it, and the same way you're holding those holdings where those holdings would go. The whole board of directors is important. And the second point I want to make. With this budget, a great deal of important grants will be distributed, and I think it will be very good if the list of foundations for these supported companies, NGOs, is to be public. What's your plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U290	I'll start at the back. I certainly support this idea, as I have said many times: the allocation of money must be transparent, based on the most universal principles possible. I totally agree! It's all the people's money that's operating here, and basically it's all the people's involvement that's being bought, which belongs to all people. That's exactly what I'm saying about this "due diligence." If we go into something, I think, in addition to, say, the know-how of the state apparatus, we need to buy more know-how on the market. It's an activity that takes its time and its money. It'll take at least weeks, maybe months. In the current situation, it is difficult to go to the stock market. For example, Estonia's Enefit Green stock exchange has been up here as a topic, but it has been delayed for some of the very prose reasons. Just the auditors have not been able to come to Estonia to carry out their assessment work. There are completely practical problems here, but they are certainly manageable. This is why, for example, in the case of Tallink, we are talking about using the loan first. It's easier to agree. There is no doubt then that a comprehensive agreement will have to be made, but it is easier to agree on this than, in the case of participation, where all the same issues that have been marked need to be negotiated. Whether the holding is held by the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Economic Affairs has not been agreed. In the budget, this money is put on the line of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. According to the technical requirement of the budget law, it must be somewhere. And, well, given that the entire transport sector, as well as the entire management of the waterways, is under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it makes sense to be there. But no final decision has been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U291	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U292	Thank you. Minister of Finance! You have said that you will not crucify in front of borrowing if it is in the interests of the well-being of the Estonian people. I agree very much with you. And I quote to you: 'I do not agree with the '90s philosophy that we have in the government of the Fatherland, that people must be poor to overcome another crisis. ' At the same time, you have also said today that the economy needs to be pushed into more money so that the Estonian economy can overcome this crisis as well as possible. And you've confirmed that we don't have a problem with the loan money right now. Now we're reading this extra budget. You're gonna shut down the second-pillar pension payments. This will be the most painful of all people with the lowest incomes, because they have little potential for other savings. And this also hits hard on Estonian pension funds, which have increasingly supported the Estonian economy with credit resources and provided financial oxygen there. Why do you need to do this? Please explain! I have not received an adequate answer. If there is money, why does the only cut you want to make is to make it out of pension funds?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U293	Thank you. It seems to me that this quote is a Marti quote, but he's from our radio show. Yes, on this subject we have already talked about several times here. I confirm that the State does not currently have a liquidity problem or a debt-taking problem. The logic here is that the money we are bringing from there to the state budget could then also be credited to the debt. But next to that, in parallel, the logic is that if we volunteer the second pillar anyway, we will help those people who want to get out of this system get out early. Well, that's another logic. How do you say now? I think it was the Chancellor of Justice who told us that the Constitution was also in force during an emergency. The Constitution also applies in times of emergency! Absolutely true. Which also means that coalitions also work in times of emergency. In the end, all things need to be said now. - Parlanks. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U294	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U295	This reasoning was now somewhat unclear as to how the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia relates to the coalition. But my question is about the health insurance fund that you're a member of the board of directors of. It's just a little bit under discussion. I am reading from this budget that the reduction in the share of social tax health insurance this year is projected to be 180 million. That's how much the government allows the Health Insurance Fund to go to the downside this year. And 200+ million, which is the extra cost of the COVID to the Health Insurance Fund, is then covered by the provision. My question concerns how this 177 million will be covered by the sickness fund, given that it is not enough to come unallocated. If reserves are introduced, this means a decrease in the number of health insurance services next year, and if the social tax gap is greater, it will not actually work at all. What are the thoughts of the health insurance fund and the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U296	In order to cope with COVID, we transfer 213 million to the health insurance fund, of which approximately 7 million is to compensate for the first three days of sickness. Of this 213 million, the largest share is for sick days at all, not for the first three days, but for all sick days. We have decided this, it is a fully aware choice, an informed decision. If our primary objective is to keep people in quarantine and people in contact with each other minimal and if we do not want sick people to go to work sick because of the first three days' pay, or because of next week's pay, then we need to motivate them to be at home if they have been diagnosed with COVID or if they are just sick. It's a very big cost line. Specialized medical care for general hospitals is a separate major cost line, especially for people with coronavir. In essence, hospitals have stopped a very large part of the planned activities, and one consequence of this planned cessation is that hospitals earn significantly less money, while the health insurance fund retains money because medical bills are not written out. But at the same time, if they do not do their usual treatment, they provide a significantly larger amount of emergency medical care, which is the most expensive type of treatment ever. So, unfortunately, these costs do not run zero, but exceed what is planned. Coming to the 180 million, I say, really, undistributed income is not enough. If I remember correctly right now, the undistributed result is in the order of 120 million and the reserves are in the order of 200 million to 200 and a little bit more. First of all, these costs are covered by retained earnings and the rest by reserves. It is also clear to us that next year, the reserves from which people live, for which this minus can be covered, are practically no longer available. Which means that in such a case, it is probably necessary to look again at the possibility that the state would exceptionally finance the costs of the health insurance fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U297	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U298	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I am going to follow my colleague's previous question on the fact that we are running out of resources all the time. But let's think about it, Võru got the outbreak under control. It didn't go so well in Saaremaa. Maris Jesse has confirmed at the meetings of the Social Affairs Committee that elsewhere in Estonia, with the exception of Saaremaa, there are actually contacts and also virus carriers under control, and all of this is really being screened. But looking at the statistics, the current growth curve that has changed in Ida-Virumaa since the beginning of last week, and we know that there is still a time of concealment, there is concern and fear that we are losing control of one area. Have the possible departure from control in Ida-Virumaa been taken into account when planning the resources and other budgetary resources of the Health Insurance Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U299	Thank you. Ida-Viru is undoubtedly a very serious concern right now. I would say that we have three areas in addition to Saaremaa, which we have been following with great concern. One is Võru, one is Pärnu, one is I am talking about counties, one is Ida-Viru. In addition, Harjumaa, where the number of people affected is high, but the ratio is low compared to the population. That doesn't mean we can be calm. One sufferer is enough to spread a lot of the virus if this thing doesn't stay under control. Ida-Viru is also a special concern because in the initial phase of the epidemic the Russians took this threat less seriously. Their "social patterns" are slightly different from the Estonians and their information field is different from the Estonians. We have a great deal of concern about the rapid deterioration of the situation there. The Government Crisis Committee has discussed this several times, has done different scenarios, has considered different new measures. Undoubtedly, should the need arise, we have created some kind of'markers', set some kind of standard that if we have a number coming out of the country, we will take some new measures. It can certainly be said that the patients there are certainly unable to cope with the hospital in Narva; the patients there must then come to Tallinn. There is now a capasite in Tallinn, a little over half of the volume of this capacitation has been filled. Everything now depends on how quickly and how many new sick people are added. And of course this volume isn't a fixed number. After all, Saaremaa was taken to a military field hospital and made regular departments into corona districts. This volume can also be increased elsewhere. But what can't be increased is the number of breathing devices. Similarly, the number of medical staff will be limited at some point. We are not yet at a critical point. A critical point, according to all forecasts, should arrive in mid-April, after Easter. So if we see a decrease in the number of people infected with the coronavirus, and then with a little more reference, let's say, a week later, we start to see a drop in the number of deaths, then we can say that the measures have been effective and if we continue to do so, we can get it under control. If this doesn't happen in these colleges where we have a problem right now, we either have to do county quarantines, like Saaremaa, or we have to take other measures that I don't know how to do right now. But today, our medical system is coping with about a hundred more intensive care patients.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U300	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U301	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, thank you very much for your long and thorough answer. And these have really been your own answers that you have given to members of the Riigikogu! We may not all like them, but this is about the differences of worldview. I want to ask you more about the self-employed. It was noted that they may be more difficult than some others, depending on whether they work under the Employment Contracts Act or under any other contract. Indeed, in the case of illness, the first to three days are now reimbursed by the state, but in the case of self-employed persons, they are themselves who pay for four to seven days of sick leave. The self-employed person is the employer who should pay for the person working in the company. And when he's done, he doesn't really have anything to pay for it. Are you willing to consider that if, from the eighth day in general, the Health Insurance Fund comes to the aid, perhaps something should be allocated to the self-employed in the amendments? Today's draft social legislation on benefits for parents of children with special needs provides this opportunity for people working under the Law of Obligations Act, the Public Service Act and the Employment Contracts Act. People are being treated equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U302	Thank you. We have been talking to both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Committee on Crisis: if we get the picture a little better, we will discuss what measures can be used in parallel to support self-employed people. These are EAS measures or KredEx measures or unemployment fund measures or whatever measures. And if we have a clear picture of how many people there are and what obstacles prevent them from getting help from somewhere else, then we are basically willing to consider additional solutions. I don't know whether these extra solutions come through the Health Insurance Fund, through the Unemployment Insurance Fund, or through some kind of direct action, but we're willing to consider it. Today, I say this: if we look at these numbers, we are talking about a few thousand people, perhaps, and we are taking into account, as it turned out in the course of this earlier discussion, that we have tens of thousands of people in trouble, for example, trade, then we must first go to these large volumes and solve them and then try to deal with, say, more specific areas. But surely we are willing to consider different measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U303	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U304	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Riina Sikkut pointed out in her questions that it is sometimes difficult to understand what its axis or focus is in this budget. It's like the measures have fallen from here and there. For example, a very nice thing in itself, a high-speed fixed Internet connection in a distributed settlement, 15 million. Two hands would sign, but it is clear that this is not very helpful in resolving this crisis, because there is really nothing we can do. But you must be commended as Minister. To your ministers, you have managed to channel a pretty big part of this budget. For example, rural measures are also very sympathetic, but 200 million are very good! In the Kaimar Bear area, however, at the same time, the prices of postal services are being raised and nothing is being done to ensure that, for example, newspapers are being brought home here during a crisis, where they are certainly...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U305	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U306	...there's a problem, there's not a penny there. Don't you think there's a contradiction here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U307	Thank you. It's not true we're not going to put a penny in it. After all, we have reduced the VAT rate from 20% to 9% and this is directly relevant to the press. So there's an absolutely important relief. If we figure out what that means for tax receipts, it's at least a million and a half. Now, the increase in the price of postal services actually serves the purpose of having postmen who carry out these same pages and having post offices all over Estonia. At the price of the current postal service, it was last changed four or five years ago was quite clear that Eesti Post was not coming out. In addition, the price of the so-called standard letter according to international conventions and agreements is the benchmark on which we issue invoices for international parcels, and because of this low price, we basically subsidized Chinese parcel delivery. That, too, made it necessary to increase the price of the stamp. As far as newspapers are concerned, they are actually the same thing that I have said here on several other occasions: media publications actually go under the job market measure of the unemployment fund. Their turnover has fallen to such an extent that they can fit under it. They've sent enough people home to work to get that support out of there. Their request to receive a specific direct action from the government was a matter for the government, and the reason why we did not resolve it in this way was precisely what several members of the Riigikogu have pointed out very correctly. The measures must be universal enough so that we do not need to choose which company or sector we are helping with individual solutions. We believe that this unemployment fund measure and the KredEx measure also work for the media.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U308	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U309	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I'll come back to the health department and the health fund. The Minister of Social Affairs has acknowledged that this 7.1 million may not be enough to compensate for the first to third day of illness. That could be more than that. It's perfectly understandable! And that second part, which is just over 200 million, may not be enough, and that's understandable. In fact, 200 million is only slightly higher than the amount by which the income of the sickness fund falls due to taxes. So the state of the health insurance fund is not getting much better and cooler in terms of cost-benefits. At the moment, it may seem that this is not a problem, but it may become a problem in the summer and autumn, when hopefully normal living arrangements have recovered. People want to go to the doctor, but they can't get there, and they can't get there, not because there is no doctor, but because there's no money to pay. Have you thought about that? And how can these situations be resolved? Very many people are currently deprived of health care.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U310	Firstly, with regard to this 7 million to finance the first three days, I would point out that we have a special-purpose reserve in the state budget to combat the COVID epidemic. This reserve has costed an amount of 50 million, and there are 30 million available reserves today. And from this very reserve we have compensated or have foreseen to compensate for this so-called first three days. If these costs are higher, there is still volume. As regards the general cash flow or general situation of the sickness fund, I had a meeting with the health fund management, where we discussed all these issues. The general picture that is there is that, in fact, the sickness fund will have a whole series of costs that are not incurred in the current budget. Partly because scheduled receptions are delayed. At the same time, some extraordinary costs are higher. They stressed that if we allocate these 213 million, say, to operational costs, then all these costs must show the real cost that has been made. Everything that doesn't come out of this money, we understand that hospitals would really like to show these expenses higher in order to make money, but what doesn't come out of it stays in the health fund's reserve. And we were relatively in agreement with Rain Laane that probably the 213 million wouldn't all be needed. I guess it all depends on what course we're going on with the spread of the epidemic and how quickly we can get it under control. These are all extraordinary costs, and it is difficult for us to predict how big they will be, how long the crisis will be. We all realize, too, that by making these expenses, we cannot permanently undermine the ability of the Health Insurance Fund to provide regular care.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U311	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U312	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Honourable Minister! Here's the question. Does anyone in Estonia have any idea whether the Minister has such an idea or whether the ministry officials have how many people we have who receive their income from the state budget and how many people do not receive it from the state budget? In fact, food money runs out for those who do not receive their income from the state budget. Those who receive it from the state budget are then pensioners or state earners, such as school teachers, university teachers, are not currently running out of food money. This option could also depend on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U313	If I remember correctly and the methodology doesn't go too far, then in the public sector, which includes all these police and university faculty members, we have between 125000 and 130,000 people working. The total number of people in employment is 670000 was 680000. This is, of course, decreasing now. That's the picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U314	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U315	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you for answering my first question on sickness benefits 4. A day ago, more specifically, the self-employed and their livelihood. Now I want to ask you about the electric excise. The reduction in electricity excise duties saves the private consumer a relatively marginal amount he sees on his own account, for example 30 to 40 cents. In industry, this is likely to help more. Did you also consider 'electricity' when discussing the possibility of lowering network charges? Could it be the Competition Authority or who? Was it under consideration? If grid charges were to be reduced, it would certainly be more noticeable on the electricity bill, which would also be more helpful to the private consumer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U316	Thank you. We have not stopped at network charges for a long time. However, there was an option under consideration that the renewable energy fee could be taken into the state budget for the next few years. The amount of renewable energy charge in Estonia is just under 90 million, 88 million around. This amount depends on energy consumption and on how much of this energy is made up of renewable energy. This in turn is divided into two: about a third or a little more is electricity and the rest is heat. If the electricity renewable energy charge of 35 million or slightly more than 30 million were decided to be included in the state budget as a cost and thus compensate for the renewable energy charge to producers and to deduct it from consumers' electricity bills, the impact on the reduction in electricity bills would indeed be greater than the reduction in excise duty. Although the amount would be more or less the same. In both cases, we are talking about a size of EUR 30 million for electricity, and the total renewable energy charge is even higher. On network charges, I had an appointment with Elering's leadership a few weeks ago. Well, let's just say it's more difficult to do with network charges. In that case, we will still go to the conscious deterioration of Elering's financial performance, and it will be much more difficult to do so. There has also been talk about the possibility of making electricity excise duty only targeted at large producers, which would have been very clearly an "industrial" or a "business" measure. The crime is that if we do it in such a way that it is truly effective, this cost would be very close to this overall cost if we put it in place for everyone. And so the question arises as to why, figuratively speaking, for an industrial company coming from abroad, we are doing cheap electricity, but Aunt Maal is still paying dearly. I don't think that's quite right. But in reducing both the excise duty on electricity, gas and diesel, we want not only to stimulate business but also the transport sector or the manufacturing sector and, in the case of gas, the agricultural sector, clearly to support the purchasing power of people. In a situation where we see wage cuts and income cuts, it is very important to assist people in making compulsory costs and fixed costs. That logic is back here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U317	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U318	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The crises have still been an opportunity for major changes. In reply to Mr Kruus's question, you also pointed out that you have been of the opinion for years that the current agricultural business model is not working and needs to be substantially changed. How do you assess whether the 200 million or 250 million currently planned to promote agriculture and rural development will help farmers to set the path of repentance, i.e. to promote agriculture in a new way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U319	I think it's a very good opportunity. I certainly believe that there are a number of companies in Estonian agriculture that are already extremely efficient and extremely productive today and pay very decent salaries, and who have no trouble getting from Ukraine to help the treemen and the herbalists who work 16 hours a day for the minimum wage. These companies are quite real. They are also very successful in exporting and offering their products on the Estonian market. As I said to Urmas Kruus, we tend to get stuck in certain details, niche and pseudo-themes. With this additional budget, the agricultural sector can use a whole range of very large and very basic support measures, which are specifically aimed at making this sector more competitive and efficient, modernising, becoming more exportable. As far as the labour force is concerned, the Ukrainian is not the only solution, there are still solutions. We have also mentioned that the unemployment fund has created solutions in which it pays a piece of salary for a period of time when the company employs a person during some sort of "start-up" period. For some months, the unemployment fund pays a so-called labour market subsidy. It's a completely functional thing. Just as you might think about it and consider it. If we are only talking about a few hundred people here, it is not very expensive either, compared to the measures we have out there. In my opinion, we have a much more forward-looking solution than just to twist Estonian laws and give the opportunity to continue with a model built on the introduction of low-skilled cheap labour from abroad. In my opinion, no person who cares about the future of Estonian agriculture should promote this solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U320	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U321	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Mr Minister. I know that number you said, but what I was interested in was that if we put pensioners and fellows on that end, and all those who get their income from the state budget, is that number bigger than the number of those who work in the private sector? But I actually want to ask you another thing. This is the acquisition of holdings. This is undoubtedly a programme that worked very well in America, the so-called TARP, within which the shares were really sold back and the state was still benefiting. Andres Sutt said that the legal entity involved would be very complicated. But in addition to that, I also see the danger that, given the relatively hostile attitude in Europe towards the private sector, it may suddenly happen that we will not acquire and give back the stake. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U322	Yes, this calculation is, of course, correct, that if we put the pensioners at the end, those who create added value will be less than those to whom this added value will be reallocated. This calculation is correct, this situation is not quite one to one, it is slightly inclined to the detriment of the private sector. In addition to the United States, Britain and Germany have been very successful in the practice of this solution. So it is, yes, such a widespread practice and everywhere with very positive results. So at least at the level of the idea, we have reason to believe that it works. But as I said, there has not been much of this done in Estonia. Well, we're gonna have to educate ourselves a lot in the process. But now the question is, do we want to give up our piece afterwards? I don't see a direct problem here, but we need money in the future. After all, we also have several privatisations in the current Government Coalition agreement, the largest of which is Enefit Green's IPO. And we can also write it in the contract that, for some period of time, it happens with a certain automatic mechanism, when someone has a big problem that we don't want to get out of Tallink anymore. I don't know if it's a big problem I can't answer if it's a big problem. I must admit that the message from Tallink has been the opposite so far: they like the country to be a shareholder. It gives them a certain degree of credibility when they operate on the market. I don't know if they'll like it in a year. That's what I can't answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U323	Thank you, Minister, there are no further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Mr Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to co-rapporteur the Chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U324	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the Additional Budget Act 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meetings on 2rd, 3rd and 6th April. The draft was presented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme as the representative of the initiators, as well as by the Minister of Education Mailis Reps, Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Taavi Aas, Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik, Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas and Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab. The Commission has already received an overview of the preparation of crisis measures to be reflected in the supplementary budget at extraordinary meetings. On 30 March, Minister of Finance Martin Helme and his team, Raul Rosenberg, Chairman of the Rural Promotion Foundation and Roomet Sõrmus, Chairman of the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce, were present. On 31 March, the Commission received an overview of Eesti Pank's economic forecast, the Governor of Eesti Pank Madis Müller and Vice-President Ülo Kaasik participated, and Erki Kilu, Chairman of the Board, gave an overview of the loan income of the Banking Association. Now to the bill. According to the additional budget, the nominal government budget deficit this year, also taking into account the measures implemented by the government to support the economy, is EUR 2.62 billion. The impact of the measures on the nominal government balance is EUR 1.15 billion. The additional budget reduces revenue from the state budget by 1.63 billion compared to this year's budget. The total impact of additional budget measures on current state budget expenditure is 513 million, plus the introduction of reserves. If you look at the three different pillars of this budget, you first need to look at measures aimed at employers, or entrepreneurs. Some of them are routed through KredEx and are already open on the one hand. With this additional budget, we also provide an opportunity to increase the guarantee of loans to 1.5 billion. The other side is about workers. As of today, employers have the opportunity to apply for 70% wage subsidy for their employees through the unemployment fund. And the third, certainly an important part, is the sick list. If anyone in the hall asked how many sick leaves were taken in March compared to last year, I would say that this figure is in the order of 50,000. So there will be a very high level of social support. I quite understand the people who took out the sick list so they wouldn't go to the store to sell as a merchant or behind the counter at the pharmacy because they protected themselves and their families with it. There's no way you can make criticism of them. However, it should be taken into account that the monthly impact on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund amounts to 15 to 20 million. At the same time, the budget of the unemployment fund will not be reduced again. In March, I think the main focus is on the sick list and the April-May unemployment fund. If we look at the extra budget on the side of the municipalities, we can see that the municipal subsidies are high. However, I would like to stress that municipal subsidies are conditional. Only the municipalities that make the planned investments in this year's budget will be able to apply for funding for new investments. This 70 million investment money is very clearly designed to boost and strengthen the economy and to give companies more opportunities to compete in the construction of different objects and in everything else. It is not the case that the municipality is now doing the things planned in this year's budget with additional budget money. It is certainly the aim of the municipalities to comply with their plans. It is important for all ministries to know that, just as the unemployment fund currently supports entrepreneurs, their own employees can also apply for 70% of their salary for two months. This needs to be looked at in a coherent way, no matter what area it is: it is a cultural sector, it is a sport, it is something else, the measures must be relatively equal for everyone. However, there is also an important aspect: for these measures, one of the conditions for support is that the average salary for the previous year is the basis. If you have paid the tax, you have a logical right to ask for support. If you have not paid the tax last year, it is very difficult to decide on the basis of which you will be paid. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we have discussed a very important issue that this money does not necessarily have to be spent. On the one hand, of course, the budget is for stimulating the economy, but on the other hand, if these measures have been approved, but they have not yet been finalised in the supplementary budget, they are still being discussed, then it is very clear that the position of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is being drafted for the second reading, that all measures will be approved by the government. There must be no situation that somewhere in the ministry or other authorities, including the MES, for example, someone is simply agreeing on something. It must be a broader consensus. It is also important that the legal entities receiving the grant are made public. Everyone will be able to see who received the support and how much. This will prevent us from thinking that someone somehow did a favor to a friend or someone else. There was talk here today about fixed internet access, a question was asked about this. So far, a very clear message has come to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and to me from at least two companies that, if there is a statement today, in a month's time, the person who wishes will have the internet. It's not guaranteed to 100% of those who want it, it's possible to give it to 95%. There is one condition: if it were not in front of the forest, as they say. Today's price is that 30 megabits per second and an even faster internet can be offered for up to 300 euros; someone has already offered 250 euros. We will certainly make more signs that this 15 million will actually cover the need for 50,000 families. Whether a person orders a €5,000 connection to a light cable or a €300 network, it's up to him to decide, but that gives him a chance. Indeed, during the crisis, we have seen that children are at home, that our older children, who are at university, also need the Internet. We ourselves are also doing our committee meetings behind our home computer, where a fast fixed connection is needed. And if anyone says today that the network should be even more powerful, then we know that there is a race going around the world that can first develop a 5G solution. In the Republic of Estonia, it is planned that in 10 to 15 years light cable should be brought to the door of every home, and by then there will be, I think, 5G solutions long ago that offer even faster and better connections. I think there are two sides to this budget very clearly today. Until the end of May, certain measures have been taken into account, such as some road money, that municipalities are given 15 million for asphalt roads, 15 million for gravel roads and 10 million for dust-free roads via the Road Administration. These are certainly the plans, I must emphasise, not the construction of the roads in this year's budget. They are planned for the next year or the next year, there are projects, but just today there were no funds. We are still channeling almost over 300 million investment funds into a certain sector. The biggest of this is the renovation of 100 million apartment buildings, which is the subject of CO2 on the one hand and the subject that people living there have a better environment and lower home costs. In addition to excise duties, which have given rise to different opinions in this hall too, whether they need to be reduced or not, it is clear that reducing excise duty on diesel is important that our transport sector survives, whether it is freight transport, bus and coach transport, be it rail, be it shipping. We also know that we have the highest excise duties on electricity and gas in our entire region. We have a very clear agreement that they will go down for two years. At the same time, we have a clause that, if the economy is already rising by at least 2%, we will come back to excise duties and then they will be quietly raised to some extent. But surely we must also look at the level of the whole region so that we compete in one market equally with others, so that it does not happen the way it is now: the Tallink ship travels between Germany and Muuga, but many cars do not get on the ship, although it seems financially useful. They drive through Poland and Lithuania to fill up the tank there, come to Estonia, on this side of the tank, and then return again. They're counting on them to win, even though the boat ticket is very cheap. One important measure is the suspension of payments from the second pension pillar. We agreed on this clearly. When they asked me, I said it was voluntary. Certainly, if you have read this bill, you know that it is also important that there is a clause inside that those people who are due to retire before 2025 will continue to pay the second pension pillar if they so wish. And the state's 4% support is also there. But thank you, and I wish you a lovely evening. The Commission decided very well: the Commission decided to conclude the first reading, to appoint a speaker here before you, and the deadline for proposing amendments is 8 April at 9 a.m. It's Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U325	Thank you. There were no questions for the rapporteur, so let's go to the negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will get the floor, as always in five plus three minutes. First, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask Kaja Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U326	Thank you. I'm gonna need three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U327	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U328	Ladies and gentlemen, We all obviously agree that we are in an emergency situation which requires exceptional measures. When the additional budget was transferred, the coalition ambassadors also agreed that it would be a long crisis. As a result, we need to deal with these steps at the moment, which are urgently needed. The Minister of Finance himself has said here on the floor that there is a great deal of uncertainty in this crisis. We do not know how much money we have, how much money we will get, under what conditions we will get a loan, how big the recession will be, how long this crisis will last, how many companies and people need help. That is why we should be dealing with things that are urgent right now. It is only reasonable to address many issues in a few months' time when it will be clearer how long this health crisis will last, what the damage will be, where the biggest losses will be. The Minister of Finance said that in a few months' time, if an extra budget were to be rediscovered, it would show that they have done their job or that we have all done our job dirtyly. No, it would show that we have done this work responsibly and that we actually want to handle money responsibly. It is important to leave a margin of strength in the budget, because we do not know what will happen and whether things will get worse. It is important for the health insurance fund, it is important for the unemployment fund, it is important for those who get help from it. This is also important for small and larger companies that employ people. The Minister of Finance complained here that the opposition is binding the government's hands, but we have actually offered to cooperate. There are a number of steps in the supplementary budget and related laws that the Reform Party considers appropriate. Rapid, precise measures are needed to survive acute times, to preserve jobs and businesses. The provision of loan guarantees and working tools to companies through KredEx is the right step. Aid measures aimed at ensuring people's income through unemployment and sickness funds are also important. It is essential here that these measures are implemented without excessive bureaucracy and are quickly reaching people and businesses, and that KredEx does not charge any predatory interest on these loans. We also think it is right that the state takes a reasonable amount of credit to keep the economy going and to alleviate the decline in people's incomes and to cover the cost of coronavir. It is important that the necessary measures last for a specific period of time linked to this crisis, whether two or six months after the end of the emergency situation or until the end of the year. There should be no open measures, it must not be the case that we move the money to the next year or we strike straight for some other purpose. The use of public money also requires transparency. Transparency excludes abuses. The beneficiaries of crisis support measures must be publicly known. As Estonia is a parliamentary state, the Riigikogu must have a regular overview of the use of crisis measures. In the current instability, an overview should be provided every month. In this way, we too can react at the right time. But, in addition to the necessary steps, this extra budget seems a little like sharing crops: every government party has to get something and it may not have anything to do with solving the crisis or helping people. This is cynical, given the situation in which tax receipts are drastically decreasing, there are many people in need and, as has already been said, we do not know how long this crisis is. It is strange that the additional budget does not include government cuts. In a situation where the entire private sector must immediately and quickly reduce people's salaries or simply lay off and pull its activities together, a country that does not cut its costs seems to be living in another world. Rapid action must help precisely those sectors that are hit the most. Parties' preferences should be discarded and the real need for crisis should be taken into account. I hope that the coalition has a substantial desire to listen to the opposition's thoughts and proposals. The Reform Party will certainly make proposals to help the tourism sector over the long term. We also have ideas on how to help small businesses, the industrial and construction sectors and companies reorganising their business model. We want to increase the cost of health care so that people can also receive scheduled treatment after this crisis. We are prepared to cut public expenditure not linked to the crisis, but it cannot be political cow trade. In short, we are ready for cooperation and debate if the coalition does not use the road roller tactics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U329	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Riina Sikkut. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U330	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll pick up where Kaja Kallas ended up. Really, we are ready to cooperate, we are ready to come out of this crisis together. This special situation is, of course, extraordinary and many things are different in our daily lives. We all feel it. But an emergency is not a situation where no rule applies. The rules will only be changed in emergency situations as much as is necessary to resolve the crisis. The sun is rising, the Constitution is in force, the red light is not allowed to cross the road. When crossing a green road, you have to do it alone or alone and keep a distance of two metres. That's exactly what's changed. Therefore, action is not only important in the crisis, but targeted action to address specific concerns. In my question to the minister, I used the image that an ambulance nurse who revives the victim of an accident doesn't go to warm the soup in the meantime. And we should follow the same principle here by discussing the additional budget and the related legislative changes. The current epidemic, as well as the crisis, is not something we are familiar with, which we would have experienced and which would make us well aware of the changes that are taking place. Flexibility, learning from mistakes, changing decisions according to new knowledge and a rapid response are therefore needed. It may be that, on the basis of current knowledge, not everything can be solved at the same time, we need to move step by step, but with a clear objective in mind. What does this mean from the point of view of the additional budget? For example, it is now also necessary to cover expenditure that we did not foresee when drawing up the budget. The tax receipts will change, it will set its limits and it will be necessary to borrow. Understood. But even in an emergency, we need to focus on making information-based decisions, base it on the best knowledge and move towards the stated goal. And I assure the Minister, just like Kaja Kallas, that if an additional budget needs to be made this year in an emergency, it does not show the work that has been done poorly, it shows just the rational responsible behaviour in a crisis situation. What, then, is needed in the supplementary budget? Prevention, containment, treatment costs, of course personal protective equipment, testing. These are essential costs, information about them is available. Secondly, there are the necessary costs, where the level of generosity is a matter of agreement: ensuring the liquidity of companies, ensuring people's livelihoods. Yeah, we can discuss the details in this room, we can discuss the details in the press. In fact, there are no major political differences and it is in all our interests, for example, to implement the measures of the unemployment fund and KredEx as quickly as possible. Thirdly, it is actually necessary to foresee costs, which are 'indirect crisis costs', with longer-term effects, rather aimed at exiting and recovering from the crisis. These costs are undoubtedly important, but uncertainty is greater for them, while time pressure is lower. We do not need to make these decisions quickly, but we need to create a common understanding of when we can get out of emergency and what we need to do so. If there is no strategic plan, it is impossible to decide whether we will have more help with low electricity excise or KredEx investment loan when we come out of the crisis. With the current additional budget, these choices have been made. Based on what information? This is by no means a rhetorical or minor issue. If there is no strategic plan and if the best knowledge available today has not been used, we will spend our scarce resources, increase the debt burden, but there will be no support for recovery from the crisis. We can only hope that we will not go in the opposite direction to what we want. But you can't even be sure of that right now. The supplementary budget distributes grants, guarantees, loans in almost all areas in much larger volumes than usual and often simplified procedures. The application conditions are largely not yet known, they are still under development and the additional budget will be accompanied by a comprehensive package of legislative amendments. So, for now, it is important to keep focus, to keep focus on resolving the crisis. All the costs that we are spending on the sidelines, even the same second pillar change that actually shuts down public IT resources, requires very strong public communication. But it is not about resolving the crisis and it is taking the focus that we need very much down. Secondly, transparency of the measures must be ensured. Transparency reduces the risk of corruption, ensures equal treatment, creates the confidence needed to resolve the crisis. For example, the publication of the list of beneficiaries, the meeting of the MES will bring back representatives of sectoral organisations who can monitor. Thirdly, we need to understand the problems and solutions. In answering the questions, the Minister said nicely that the measures must work together, cannot rely on just one thing or one solution. I'll give you an example of the MES again. In agriculture, the most complaining is the lack of working hands. Is the allocation of 200 million in this area justified? Is it possible to make useful use of this 200 million when there is a shortage of workers? Obviously, this individual measure does not produce a result, a complex of measures would be needed. But the extra budget package will not solve the issue of working hands. Cooperation with the unemployment fund is also important here. What is the plan for temporary work permits for workers in Estonia? Is it really worth taking a decision on the allocation of 200 million if we do not have these supporting measures in place? And fourth, last. Life doesn't end with this crisis. The long-term plan has to be in front of you all the time. The proposed package of measures is broad, the amounts that the country is channelling into different areas very large. In setting the conditions for grants and other measures, the long-term objectives of the sector, apart from mitigating the crisis, should be taken into account. For example, investment loans could be directed towards automation, ensuring productivity gains. Our productivity is very low compared to the European average. If we have this money, we should also be able to meet long-term goals. Similarly, the MES is: if a tenth of the crisis package goes there, it should also help to meet the objectives of the agricultural and fisheries development plan. Increased added value, increasing the share of domestic food on the Estonian market, it is completely realistic to achieve this even in the event of a crisis. In conclusion, trust is of great value in resolving the emergency situation and must be maintained and created in the context of an additional budget process. The plan must be in place, focus must be in place, measures must be selected on the basis of best knowledge and implemented in a transparent manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U331	Thank you. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 171. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline of 8 April at 9 a.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U332	We come to the next item today, as well as the last item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the State's additional budget for 2020 relating to the law (measures relating to the spread of the Corona virus causing COVID-19 disease). Over here, Secretary of Finance Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U333	Hello again! Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In my speech on the additional budget for 2020, which has just ended, I told you about the decisions we are facing and the necessary changes to ensure the sustainability of Estonia's fiscal policy and to make every effort to ensure that our economy turns to growth as soon as possible. The outbreak of a crisis is unprecedented in terms of its scale and impact on Estonia. The government is ready to take comprehensive measures to address this by maintaining people's incomes, supporting the survival and survival of entrepreneurship in times of crisis and finally rising from this difficult economic situation. All economic steps and measures that the government has already taken or is still planning and taking forward in the future are aimed at mitigating these effects. We need to support our working people and our businesses so that the fall that has hit us is deeper, the recovery is faster and we can overcome the difficulties with as little damage as possible. In the case of effective crisis relief measures, normal economic activity should recover much faster than after the previous major crisis. Several sectors of our economy, such as accommodation and catering, entertainment or transport, have already suffered very painful shocks in the face of difficult circumstances. The overall decline in consumption, the disruption of the supply chains needed and the widespread financial difficulties are also threatening other areas, the losses of which have so far been smaller. The starting point and speed of our economic recovery depend on many factors that are very difficult to measure accurately in the current situation. Without being able to pinpoint the current situation and developments in the near future, it is also difficult to find a forecast model to assess our future. Recovery, first of all, depends, of course, on how long the current restrictions on preventing the corona virus will last, both for us and for other countries. It is also very important to maintain as much as possible the daily incomes of our people, our people's bread on the table, the vitality of businesses and the courage of everyone to consume and conduct economic transactions during this period. The Government of the Republic has made two legislative packages containing measures to prevent the spread of the corona virus caused by the COVID-19 and to mitigate its consequences. The purpose of this draft law is to establish a legal basis for the introduction of measures relating to the spread of the COVID-19 virus, the financial side of which is guaranteed by the additional budget of the State for 2020. The second package concerns the amendment of laws to deal with the corona crisis in an emergency situation, which the existing laws do not allow and the amendment of which is not directly linked to an additional budget. The 169th draft consists of a total of 18 legislative amendments necessary to implement decisions taken with an additional budget. The provisions of the draft act may be grouped into five groups. Firstly, amendments to the laws laying down the basis for financial accounts and the different rates, which will eventually be reflected in the additional budget. This includes, for example, the Act on Support for Entrepreneurship and National Loan Guarantee, which increases the adhesive of KredEx, which allows it to provide a greater degree of additional guarantees to corporate bank loans, or the Act on Unemployment Insurance, which increases the resources of the trust capital to finance crisis measures from funds not used by trust funds, or the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Unions, which alleviates restrictions so that subsidies can be paid and applied for. Secondly, tax provisions that facilitate economic coping and support businesses. For example, the reduction of excise duties, the biggest of which is the reduction of excise duties on diesel to Lithuanian levels. We expect that the reduction in excise duty will reduce the price of diesel by 14.5 euro cents per litre. However, this includes an exemption of EUR 5000 for private forest owners, a temporary exemption from the obligation to pay social tax at least a month, and a suspension of interest payments and a reduction in the interest rate for the Tax and Customs Board, and the application of a lower rate of VAT in addition to paper-based publications. Thirdly, social legislation ensuring the continuation of certain activities in emergency situations and laws providing social protection in emergency situations. The first include carrying out a capacity assessment during an emergency, extending the deadline for a decision on permanent incapacity for work, extending the length of disability, etc., among others, the remuneration of members of the Defence League in an emergency situation where they do not have any other income at the time of inclusion, and the continuation of health insurance also for persons for whom social security contributions are not paid. Fourthly, regarding the state budget. The establishment of emergency provisions for the budgetary strategy and the establishment of the state budget, which means deciding on a different timetable from the normal situation and the transfer of resources to be used in emergency situations. In connection with the crisis, there is also a need to clarify the concept of sovereign debt, namely what goes into the calculation of the maximum amount promised and the increase of this balance by the Riigikogu. These principles will not be changed, but will be more clearly disbanded. Fifth, suspension of second pillar payments. In the future, the pension component of social tax will be 4%, which was previously assigned to the second pillar, into the state budget. This will allow the state to use this money for the costs needed in a crisis situation. The suspension of payments under the second pillar for the period from 1 July 2020 to 31 August 2021 will reduce the State's costs by EUR 141 million in 2020 and by EUR 204 million in 2021, with a total of EUR 345 million in the whole period. In addition, tax receipts will increase by a total of EUR 8 million in two years. In total, the projected positive impact of the suspension of second pillar payments on the state budget in 2020 and 2021 is EUR 353 million. At the same time, if the pension is suspended for the second pillar, the person's net salary will increase by 2% (assuming that the gross wage does not change). The negative impact of the crisis mitigation measures approved by the Government of the Republic on the nominal budgetary position of the general government will be EUR 1 billion and EUR 145 million this year, i.e. 4.4% of GDP. The measures affect all levels of government, but most of them go through the state budget. The public budget costs are increased by various grants to local authorities for new investments, as well as measures to support cultural, sporting and educational institutions. The expenditure of social security funds is increased by a package of labour market support measures for the unemployment fund of EUR 250 million, as well as by the sickness fund to compensate for sick days. Members of the Riigikogu, I would ask you to support the draft submitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U334	Minister, there are also questions for you. First Annely Akkermann.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U335	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, The emergency medical director Arkadi Popov said in the belief that the plan must be at both tactical and strategic levels, and according to it the state must move; if necessary, plans may be changed if the situation changes, but action without plan is a definite failure. In public budgeting, the budgetary strategy is the strategic plan that people expect to see from the finance manager. Whoever wants to be a leader must be able to set a strategic plan, must be able to explain it, must be able to draw people along with it. Why are you giving up strategic planning? In this way, no crisis can be overcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U336	Thank you. Oh, I thought we just spent three or four hours here talking about a strategic plan, but maybe we talked too little. It seems to me that we have formulated this strategic plan very clearly, however, what we want to achieve with the current budget and with the legislative changes to it. The first, most important, is to keep employment - people's incomes, in this context to keep companies alive, in addition to covering the unpredictable and unexpected costs associated with the pandemic, and to create the conditions for the rapid recovery of the Estonian economy. I think it's a strategic plan enough. Maybe it just feels like it to me, but I don't know how to make a better and bigger strategic plan. We don't allow a bright blue future here, but I can't agree with the criticism that we don't have a plan at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U337	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U338	Thank you. The amendment of the Social Welfare Act in this package will straighten out the conditions for providing special care services. A person's preparation does not have to mean completion of training; it is enough to have a secondary education and a tutor. That makes perfect sense. In a bad scenario, such a measure may be necessary, and I will not challenge it. However, please explain why this applies only to special care services, but not to general care. We've all heard about the situation in general care homes with infected people, including workers. There may also be a situation where there is a shortage of staff and it is not possible to recruit people with professional and appropriate training. Moreover, the general care home is a service whose requirements were tightened at the beginning of this year compared to the special care service. In addition, it should also be mentioned here that the special care service...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U339	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U340	... is a service organised by the state, the local government organises the general care home service. Why special treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U341	Thank you. The honest answer is that this particular section has been prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs. I owe the answer whether this special treatment is due to the fact that not all aspects of the short timeframe could be considered or whether there is some substantive argument behind it. I can't give you any more advice than to write a proposal for a second reading. If it's really a mistake from rushing, then we can fix it. If the Ministry of Social Affairs has some sort of substantive counter-argument, they'll have to explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U342	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U343	I am following the example of the Annely Akkermann question. Indeed, in the same show Arkadi Popov also said that unplanned action was a failure. If the plan is to employ and maintain employment, support businesses to keep people in work and support people in the labour market, it is a plan, it is a very good plan. The measures in the supplementary budget and in the accompanying legislative package must be aimed at the implementation of this plan. The plan itself does not materialise. Please explain how the 3% lower electricity price after the fall in excise duty will help people to remain in employment, in which sectors it will have a greater impact, how many people it will keep in employment and how it will solve the crisis that has hit us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U344	Thank you. I guess we have to be able to walk and chew gum at once as a country and as a society. Just because we have a big plan doesn't mean we're going to cancel all the other things at all. Who's offering us employment? It's entrepreneurship, isn't it? A few months ago, I was at a working meeting with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which discussed possible foreign investments in Estonia and what prevented them from doing to Estonia. In particular, as regards industry and industrial production, high electricity prices, high environmental charges and environmental requirements were identified as the most important obstacle. Among other things, a package of investments with different stages of maturity was put together. It was said that if the price of electricity in Estonia decreased significantly (there were different calculations from the current level, either by half or two thirds or to a minimum), potentially investments in Estonia would be weighed at 500 million euros. I don't remember the number of jobs right now, but it was in a number of thousands. I do not see in any way how our measure to reduce electricity excise duty would be contrary to it or would not contribute to the creation of jobs in Estonia and to the creation of high-value-added jobs in Estonia. It's clearly working in its favor. But I would like to stress once again the same thing that I said during the previous item that if, in addition to bringing production and entrepreneurship to Estonia, it also helps Estonian households, who are currently losing their income, it is actually a targeted measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U345	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U346	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Question about the second pillar. We have been here a while ago, and the members of the Fatherland have said, and you have also said, that the second pension pillar does not work because the returns are low. At the same time, for the second time today, we are planning this step that, during the crisis, we will stop the state's payments and also tell the people that it is voluntary. One of the principles of investment is to buy all the time you invest in the long term and to buy from both the top and the low end. We ourselves will cause this if we don't buy from the bottom, that there will be lower returns. My question is, why are we doing this? In fact, why, as a country, do we ourselves worsen the productivity of the second pillar pension and say that it does not work if we repeatedly cause it ourselves? Is that reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U347	Thank you. I must admit that I am not in a position to hold a debate here on the reform of the second pillar. But I'm just pointing out that people don't buy anything. People are being taken away from money, and they say there are smarter people here who buy for you. But I don't think they've been able to handle this very successfully for 17 years. Is that reasonable? We obviously have a different answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U348	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U349	Thank you again, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I honestly assumed you'd be familiar with the bill you're reporting. To be honest, I was thinking of § 11 'amendment of the State Budget Act', which says that the state's budgetary strategy, which is a strategic document of the state budget process for up to five years, will not be drawn up in April this year. However, in the same package, you have brought to the Riigikogu both the emptying of the stabilisation reserve and the large-scale increase in the loan burden of the state budget, without making a strategy paper. Without a strategy, we cannot expect such serious decisions to be approved as well and, frankly, it is unacceptable to come up with this. Why did you fail to draw up a national budget strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U350	How charmingly feminine to expect that I know what you're thinking. Yeah. Of course, I know what this point is talking about, and now I can answer nicely. We are talking about the RES, we are talking about whether or not there is a point in making a four-year state budget strategy in a crisis situation. I would refer to the previous crisis, if it was done, if I remember correctly, two years in a single-page word by the RES, which said that we could not predict what would happen in a few years, and it would probably get worse before it got better. The idea of this point is to abandon such a one-page hiccup and say that we are currently dealing with a specific budget for the year and we cannot make a four-year plan, because this four-year plan is, at best, a serious one. What are we gonna do? After all, of course, we are doing what is done when every state budget is made in the autumn, in fact, the four-year plan will be reviewed. This section gives the government the opportunity not to make a large document with tables, calculations and forecasts within the current deadline, but we will certainly complete this four-year view by September. This is what we need ourselves, it is reasonable and useful, and by then we will also have this time frame and enough information to do so. But to be honest, if the Riigikogu wishes the government to make this one-page suspension by the end of April, the Riigikogu can also take this point out of here. I was based on a clear understanding that one could be honest with himself and with the public, because this document would not have much substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U351	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U352	Thank you. Good minister! I didn't intend to say anything about the second pillar, but now I'm forced to, after your answer. My colleague, Mart Võrguship, has simply read the very right reasons why it is beneficial to man and why it is actually beneficial to the state if payments from the second pillar continue at this point in time. This is the best way for people to increase their pensions and, in fact, the state's pension liabilities will be lower in the future. I wanted to ask you about this excise package. You were talking about lowering the electricity excise duty, that it was the key to further investment here. We actually know that excise duty is the smallest piece of the final price of electricity. In that case, there would be other measures that could be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U353	Thank you. Well, it is great, in 2021 the pension pillar becomes voluntary, and if it is true that this is the best time to invest, I believe that a good sales job can inspire people not just to give up leaving the second pillar of the pension, but also to attract people like me. We all believe that if you show a good deal to a man, he'll realize that deal. We're going that way. But as far as electricity excise is concerned, let us not take this view from the perspective of households alone. And even if we only take it from the perspective of households, we should look at this so-called aggregated picture. We are still talking about the tens of millions that are left in the pockets of the Estonian people. It may seem like a trivial amount on a month's bill, but in a year's time, it's the money that will be left to households. However, if we look at some specific business by enterprise, then there this effect is considerably more significant than some percentage points. In this sense, it is good for business as well as for households.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U354	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U355	Thank you. I will continue on this issue of electric excise. In answering my previous question, you very well described that, in theory, decisions on foreign investment are really influenced by low energy prices, low environmental charges. The lower tax burden on labour would undoubtedly have a positive impact. It's all right in theory. This package that we are dealing with, for example, the reimbursement of the first day of illness for the unemployment fund measure, is something that we will implement immediately after the third reading. The impact will be in April-May. That's what we need. Despite the theory, this fall in the price of electricity of 3% obviously has no effect whatsoever. Not to mention that this decision does not need to be taken in April, because we do not have an understanding of whether this measure is needed and necessary to recover from the crisis. Perhaps there is a need to reduce taxes on labour and this would bring us more investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U356	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U357	Please explain why it is now necessary to reduce the price of electricity, when it could have an impact and how many additional jobs and investment euros it will bring to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U358	Thank you. I don't know if it's so obvious that one thing doesn't work or another thing works. I think that cutting the excise duty, it's quite obvious, will bring benefits. As I said in my introductory speech, we need to think about these things in stages. There are things that we are implementing very quickly and now, but we also need to make preparations to bring the economy out of the recession, not only to bring it out of the recession, but also to take advantage of the present environment, where there are actually new opportunities to be stronger, more competitive, more productive, more modern at the end of this crisis. That's the path we're going to take now when we're doing excise cuts. It will only give effect in a few years, but it will be of greater value.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U359	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U360	Thank you. Since I didn't get an answer to my question from you, I'm gonna try again. Indeed, people themselves do not buy securities into their pension funds, although they can choose pension funds depending on which strategy they like and which securities and investments they prefer. I just checked on the phone that my pension fund's ten-year return is 3.51% plus even now, in times of crisis. It is a net yield. I am still asking you that if we do not buy in a time of crisis and, at the same time, in a few years' time, we are saying that pension funds are not working and are harmful, why are we doing self-deception in this way? In fact, it will be more expensive for all of us if the country has to put 6% there in two years' time. This money doesn't come from anywhere but on account of anything else. Perhaps we will reduce our people's pensions by suspending payments and, at the same time, we will impose an additional burden on the state budget by paying a higher percentage in the coming years. Why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U361	I would first say that if the net yield was 3 and something per cent, the real yield was probably negative. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Neto ongi reaaltootlus.'???]] No, it's not. Okay, nominal, okay, okay. I'm sorry! But we're paying less back. By those people who give up their 2% deposit, we will pay back less. A very useful transaction from the point of view of the State. (Voice of the floor: 'What about the people? ') People choose for themselves. Freedom of choice is sacred.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U362	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U363	Thank you. In the light of this fiery pension fund commendation, I would also say my opinion. For many, however, the sum has not increased and the result is not positive, which is said here to guarantee a bright future for grandchildren and a bright old age. Most people already have it in red. Have any of the pools been made and seen what the percentage of the fall has been in the past few weeks? Is there any indication of what this might still be like and when we would be able to achieve this pre-crisis level again and with what kind of effort?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U364	Thank you. As far as I know, there hasn't been a team. It is true that the falls have been very great. If I remember correctly, the previous time, after the losses made in the meantime, they reached a pre-crisis level somewhere in 2017, where they were before the crisis. But I might get a little confused. This is certainly different in different funds for different strategies, which is also clear. We're talking about some general aggregated number. But yes, I quite frankly admit that it would certainly be easier for me if we did not have to hold the second pillar debate on the budget. In some ways, it is the continuation of the same debate that was in this very Chamber when we talked about the reform of the second pillar. In some ways, this is the continuation of the same debate that took place here ten years ago when payments from the second pillar were first suspended. It's a long story, isn't it? But all of this will, fortunately, be missed when the reform of the second pillar takes effect, and everyone can do exactly what they want.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U365	Thank you. There's no further request. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, here, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U366	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At the meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 2, 3 and 6 April, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft law amending the State's additional budget for 2020 relating to the law (measures relating to the spread of the Corona virus causing COVID-19 disease) prior to its first reading. The draft was presented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme as the representative of the initiators, and the Minister of Education Mailis Reps, Minister of Rural Affairs Arvo Aller, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Taavi Aas, Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik, Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas and Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab. The draft amends the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity, the Law on business support and guarantee of loans, the Law on environmental charges, the Act on savings pensions, the Act on VAT, the Act on creators and creative associations, the Tax Organisation Act, the Act on Social Benefits for Disabled Persons, the Health Insurance Act, the State Budget Act, the State Pension Insurance Act, the Social Welfare Act, the Social Tax Act, the Health Services Organisation Act, the Income Tax Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the Labour Capacity Support Act. The Commission also took the following consensual decisions: to seek the opinion of sectoral committees on its drafts by 8 April, including 9 a.m., to put the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu's plenary session on Monday, 6 April, including the appointment of a rapporteur here and to conclude the first reading, and to set the deadline for submitting amendments on Wednesday, 8 April at 9 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U367	Thank you, good waitress. There are no questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U368	It is, Maris...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U369	It seems that since we are going to the negotiations, Maris Lauri has a wish to speak on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U370	Okay. Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! This draft is very closely linked to what we discussed on the previous item, and it is clear that the problems and virtues are relatively exactly the same in this draft. Perhaps in some places they stand out more acutely, as was the case with these few questions. It is logical that the additional budget and the crisis situation require certain changes, which makes the different extensions to the permits or, in particular, to the validity of disability, capacity to work, etc., completely understandable. The payment of interest rates and other rules that would apply during and after an emergency situation, or, for example, the reimbursement of social security contributions by the State to self-employed persons or the preservation of health insurance, as well as a number of other issues that are in this draft, are fully acceptable and understandable. But there are some trouble spots here. The two issues that may raise the most questions relate to excise duties and the second pillar of pension. Perhaps it would have been fair for the Minister to say what is the reason why this is being done. But I understand it's hard for him to say, they're done because there's no money. And we need money. Where do you get that money? Let's take it from those who raise money for retirement! The money's being taken from people. Maybe it's legitimate, maybe it's acceptable, but you should be honest about your goals. The second issue, the fall of excise duties. This is certainly one choice that can be made, but it is a political choice. At present, this is not a crisis measure for the most part. Why? Because fuel prices have fallen very strongly. This also applies to the price of electricity. Yes, the price of energy may be a very important input in production, but its price is important if production exists. Right now, I'm sorry, nobody drives much. You know, on that pole, the price of fuel may be free of excise duty, but I don't think there's any more to buy right now because people don't drive. The price doesn't matter. The price is also not important because we see that prices have fallen very significantly, even if we do not have as much as we do in our southern neighbours. If we are talking about diesel, we already know that the fall in this excise duty should bring the price down to 14 to 15%, but it is not enough for us to get our diesel price down from Latvia or Lithuania. So there won't be any competitive advantage. When we talk about electricity, yes, it is a very powerful achievement for the household consumer: the average consumer wins EUR 10 a year. Yes, it is a very big victory, it will certainly save some people from poverty, just as the Minister explained to us in the Commission. But all right. Maybe it was a little ironic. A little more serious: we can think about whether we need production that is highly energy-intensive. We take back a month, we take back three months. What was the price of electricity then, and why did these production companies leave here? It wasn't about the electric excise. It was because the electricity was expensive because the price of CO2 went up. Those were the other things that raised the price. So now, if we hypothetically assume that some company will come here to bring in production with thousands of employees, I don't know where it will of course take these employees, then it will be the price of electricity in a few years' time, because the price of energy is so high that it will not be able to pay for it. So even if this measure could, to some extent, be a discussion in the Riigikogu, it is not a crisis measure and, in my opinion, it does not make any sense in the long term either. But I am now talking about some things that are perhaps less debated or that are not very clear. It is certainly very important to draw up a national budget strategy. It can be understood that setting it up can be extremely difficult at this point in time, and it really would not be very meaningful. But in the current wording, there is such an opportunity in the budget law that, in principle, the government can say: you know, times are extraordinary and we do not do the country's budgetary strategy. So this point must certainly be clarified in terms of wording. The question certainly arises, for example, of why the tax authorities are given the right not to show the taxes paid by companies. What shame is it that you show me how much you've paid taxes? In a crisis situation, I think it is very fair to be as open as possible to such matters, so that it is clear and understandable what the situation is, so that everyone can be sure that no one is deceived. So these are the places we definitely need to discuss and make things better. Some places need wording, but there are also substantial shortcomings in quite a number of places. So the amendments will certainly come from us. I am hoping for a constructive discussion and a focus on the fact that we still want to resolve the crisis. These drafts are not intended as long-term policy choices, but as a solution to the crisis. Would leave political discussions by the time the acute crisis phase is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U371	Aivar Chef, please, on behalf of the Isamaa Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U372	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I understand everyone actually wants to go home. But Maris took the floor, and I was waiting for her to ask me a question. He didn't ask, but in his speech he actually asked questions. It's good for me to talk here in the Riigikogu, I'm an entrepreneur. Today a journalist also asked me how my companies were doing. It is very simple that 150,000 people are on the payroll of the so-called taxpayer and over 300,000 receive pensions, but the rest of the people have to work. I've got a company that's been catering. It's been three weeks since everyone's home. The second thing is that it was very easy to close down shopping malls. The big house, the grocery store is in there, the house must be open, the heat must be there, the light must be there, the costs need to be paid, but you can't ask the tenant for the money. The press, as you can see, doesn't have advertising revenue. I looked at today's Estonian Päevaleht, it was so thin, I didn't understand it, it was as thick as my county page. You're gonna have to save some expense. If anyone is talking about excise duties today, I recommend only one thing to do: take the Baltic and Nordic electricity excises today and see how high Estonia is on this table. Top of the line. Let's take the next one, gas excise, once again at the highest level. We'll take the diesel excise among the first five. There are two large cost items in business. One is the wage cost (through the unemployment fund we are trying to support the measure here) and the other is the input. Inputs are on the one hand transport, on the other hand heat and electricity. We did it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in December, we kept our mouths shut, we didn't do the press, remember? For gas, electricity, everything else. Five minutes before the third reading, we said it with a louder voice, because, no, we are honest, most of the Members of the Commission do not really read these drafts, after all. When you read how many cents it is, five years ago, when the Members of the Commission met at the Baltic Assembly, we laughed that we were not in a competitive environment. Even Finland has a smaller excise duty. Let's try it. Yeah, I was the winner too. At first, let's be honest (Martin went away), wanted to take them down longer and bigger. We agreed that when the economy starts to rise, we will come back to excise duties, today we will do so for two years. In two years' time, we can tell if they were wrong or not. But now that the economy is on the bottom, let's be honest, 30% of the entrepreneurs have already closed down the store. They have no chance of dealing with their own company in a crisis situation if they even wanted to. We must ensure that they do not go bankrupt and have the best position in the Nordic and Baltic countries for a new rise. If we've given the best position and an entrepreneur like me can't get out of it as a winner, it's my fault. There are 5% of entrepreneurs in society, those who dare to take risks. I know how many tens of thousands I lose every month. Most people in this hall don't know that. There's a variety of options anytime. There was a question of abandoning the second pillar. 30 to 40 million a month. Are we giving up pension payments for pensioners? There's gotta be somewhere to cover the costs. Social tax receipts on April 10th you will certainly only see what it is. It's nonexistent compared to what we predicted. Yeah, today we were quite seriously arguing with ourselves, quite frankly, about whether we're giving the IRS such a chance that... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U373	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U374	... for two months, taxes are not to be paid and no interest is to be calculated. There's a risk. On the one hand, we are giving companies the opportunity to use it as working capital, on the other hand, it may be that in two months' time, these companies still have nothing and it could get worse. But we're giving it a chance. This is a high risk, but let's try this time to support a number of measures and investment opportunities. In the autumn, we can say whether the measures were better this time than they were ten years ago. If anyone today says that precisely these are the right decisions, then no one knows, because there has just been no such crisis for decades. Our faith and hope is that this is the best decision. We could be wrong. But as an entrepreneur, I have always said that it is better to make a decision, better even a wrong decision than indecision. Let us try to move forward with these solutions together this time. If, before Midsummer Day, the situation is the same as today, then surely all the decisions we have made will be temporary. We can all hope that, at the end of May, this is where we see the situation stabilising. By the end of May, not all have calmed down, there is certainly no hope. Summer is different this year than all previous summers. But the desire and will of all people is that we can keep this corona virus crisis so that it does not disperse and the economy does not stand. Because we cannot only look at this virus and health care, we must also look at the economy, so that the economy survives, and in three or four months we can say that most of our economic sectors are on the rise again. Certainly tourism, the recovery of the recreational economy will take years, and in one year it will hardly recover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U375	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The lead committee has proposed to close the first reading of draft 169. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline of 8 April at 9 a.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U376	Now everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Mr Jaak Juske would like to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U377	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear people of Estonia! The Riigikogu has had a very long working day today. It's nighttime, and it's time to finish a real night story. On 7 April, 150 years have passed since the birth of our blue-black-white flag, the Estonian Students' Society, the ECS. The story of the ECS began in the breeze of the national enthusiasm after our first general song festival. According to the old calendar on March 26, 1870, eight men gathered in a student apartment in Tartu. Next to five students, Andreas Kurrikoff, Heinrich Rosenthal, Gustav Treffner, Hugo Treffner and Martin Wühner, three of them were connected to the Estonians: Jakob Hurt, Wilhelm Eisenschmidt and Johann Voldemar Jannsen. Today it may seem funny to many, but it was then gathered to read to one another our national epic, Kalevipoeg. It was a clear and strong sign that these eight men did not want to fit in with Germans or Russians, but wanted to be Estonians. It was decided to continue attending once a week, reading our national epic and educating itself in the field of Estonian language and culture. These "Kalevipoeg" evenings turned out to be the oldest and largest academic student organisation in Estonia in the ECS. The blue black and white combination was chosen by the comrades as the colours of their flag in 1881. And on June 4, 1884, the first flag was consecrated at the church of Otepää. This miraculously preserved flag is outside the Estonian National Museum to see everyone today. However, the ECS continued its public activities in Estonia until the ban by the Soviet occupation powers in the summer of 1940. During World War II, the brothers who fled to the West concentrated and kept their colours high, with the Estonian language and culture. The restoration of activity in Estonia was made possible in the wind of the singing revolution on 1 December 1988. Today, the E.R.S. will unite a thousand men over the weather. The members of the Society have contributed to the creation and restoration of the Estonian state, helped build up our country. Today, too, there are two comrades in the Government of the Republic, and three members of the ECS are sitting here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. One of the founders of the ECS, Reverend Jakob Hurt, invited all Estonians to collect and write down our rich folklore treasurer already in 1888. This vast spiritual body was born under the leadership of the comrades after the death of Hurda in 1909 at the Estonian National Museum. The recording of the story of the Estonian people continues to be important today. Sitting between the homes caused by the evil virus gives us more time to write down our family story and remember the times we've had. It is especially important to capture a living memory. If our forefathers and fathers in life fail to write their own story, they may be asked to use modern recording tools. These stories are important to record so that future generations also know what the life and destiny of their predecessors have been. The flag of the ECS is the Latin slogan 'Carpe diem! ' ('Use the day!'). Let us use this time of silence wisely. But, of course, the most important thing today is to keep your health as well as your loved ones. This is how we keep our family and its story in place for the whole of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-06_U378	Thank you. It was a very timely reminder, and that is the end of our sitting today. Closure of the sitting at 22.36 p.m.
