ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 5th working week Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu, which, unlike yesterday, will be considerably shorter. First, I would ask you to start by handing over the drafts and enquiries if you wish. But it doesn't look like there's any billing or questioning to be handed over. We're gonna do a presence check.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U2	There are 87 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U3	We will go to today's item on the agenda, second reading of the draft law amending the law on the name of the place initiated by the Government of the Republic. Rapporteur, Heiki Hepner, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The Committee on Rural Affairs has discussed the draft on three occasions. For the first time before the first reading, on 8 June (first reading already took place here on 17 June), for the second time the Commission discussed the draft on 28 September and for the third time on 12 October. On 12 October, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that 186 be placed on the plenary agenda by 22 October 2020, to propose that the second reading of 186 be stopped and, if the second reading is closed, to propose that 186 be placed on the plenary agenda by 28 October 2020 and to hold a final vote. Now a little of the discussions that took place between the first and second readings in the Commission. The Commission has received the position of the Ministry of Finance with the signature of Minister Jaak Aab. Martin Kulp (both meetings) and Eerik-Niles Kross, member of the Riigikogu (28 September), legal adviser to the Regional Administrative Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, participated in the discussion of this draft. At first, the Members of the Commission were interested in dealing with two practically identical drafts, or let us say that these two drafts had a significant overlap in one part. In this regard, Marin Daniel, Head of the Commission's Consultative Secretariat, explained that drafts 186 and 208 cannot be merged, as the drafts are pending in different committees. If the Rural Affairs Committee supports the amendments tabled by Eerik-Niles Kross and the plenary assembly approves them, the members of the Riigikogu will be able to withdraw the draft they have initiated from the procedure. The debate, when the debate was held in committee or the content of the draft was discussed, was primarily about the fact that there really are two sides to the draft initiated by the government. One is the question of the value-based wording of the place name, and the other is that there are a number of technical issues that make the procedure easier, less bureaucratic and easier to do in the public administration, as well as in the public administration. The discussion was primarily about this value-based question, i.e. how to rule out that the name of a person who has acted against the creation of the Republic of Estonia, the maintenance of constitutional order or the restoration of Estonia's independence is a name of dedication. The Commission unanimously accepted an amendment that would prevent the use of the names of persons who have acted against the Republic of Estonia. This was also accepted by the Minister of Public Administration, who confirmed this in his letter. Opinions differed to some extent on how to ensure compliance with the above requirement. We know that there are two streets in Narva that continue to bear the names of the state cults, comrades Albert-Auust Timann and Ancis Dauman. In addition, there is at least one other state hurricane called Jürna. True, John's first name has been taken away. I hear there are streets called Jürna in several settlements. Are all of these related to John Jürna? I don't know exactly. The Commission was not consensual about how to tackle the problem described above. The Commission decided that § 13 of the current Act should be supplemented by paragraph 43, according to which the Minister for Trade proposes that the person who designated the place name be brought into conformity with the law without delay after receiving a proposal from the Council for the Name of the seat. Eerik-Niles Kross had proposed that the Council should propose to the Minister within 60 days to change the names of the seats which were not in conformity, and the Minister would make an injunction to the designated person to bring the place names into compliance with the law without delay, but not later than 30 days after receiving the proposal from the Council. The representative of the Ministry explained that the local government has broad choice and decision-making powers and the precept limits the autonomy of the local government. Regulation of an individual case by law opens up a political channel for intervention in local life in border cases. In the country's view, it is problematic to make precepts on matters requiring a very subjective assessment. The discussion raised the question of whether the proposal only concerns the names of persons who were active against the Republic of Estonia or also the names of so-called "red writers." 30 days is also too short a deadline for local government. For example, if there is a desire to deal with this issue in the council, the council meeting usually takes place once a month, before which the matter also needs to be dealt with in the committee, the subject to be made public, feedback to be expected, a response to differences of opinion. So 30 days is too short to deal with. If you look at it as a comparison, the precept and the proposal in this case, aside from the meaning of the word, have the same force, because neither of them is meant to be coercive. Mr Keldo asked what was the legal difference between the precept of the Minister and the proposal. This was the subject of the debate and it was stated that no coercive means were envisaged even in the event of a precept. Martin Kulp replied that the injunction must be followed by a sanction. The question is how much can and can be involved in local government decisions. He explained that the inappropriate street names of Narva were placed before Estonia regained independence; the supervision of the Ministry of Justice did not extend to administrative acts at the time, as the deadline for contesting the administrative act was over. Urmas Kruuse asked how sanctioning violates the rights and autonomy of local government. Mr Kulp replied that there would be no infringement in obvious cases, but that problems would arise in dealing with borderline cases. Urmas Kruuse expressed the opinion that there are times when certain matters need to be settled in court. Merry Aart didn't think there was an artificial need to argue. Tarmo Tamm thought that local issues had to be resolved at local level. The debate also had a way of carrying out this check. Urmas Kruuse expressed the opinion that inappropriate street names can be identified through a register and IT solutions. At the same time, the speaker thought that schools, cadastral units, or other objects could have inappropriate names. Martin Kulp replied that if the local government council decided to designate an inappropriate street name, it could be challenged by the state or local residents. He added that the law of the place name regulates all the place names. Then there was the vote on this proposal. Three members were in favour of the proposal by Eerik-Niles Kross, five were against. In addition, a further amendment has been made between the two readings: the date of entry into force of the Act will be amended. In the original draft, the deadline was 1 July 2020, with a new entry into force of 1 December 2020. This was supported by the Commission in a consensual manner. That gives me a brief overview of this debate. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U5	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask up to two oral questions and the length of the question shall be one minute. First, Mikhail Stalnukhin asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If the initiative for renaming comes from the local government, they themselves will do the job and it is clear that they will bear these costs. However, in cases where this decision comes from a minister, a place name from a committee or committee through a minister, regardless of what the local authority thinks, it must change its name and it has to do with quite a lot of expenditure. I'd say the streets of Dauman and Timann in Narva are pretty long. In such a case, will all the costs associated with this be borne by local authorities as well as by the people living on these streets and possibly by them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U7	Thank you. Actually, it's like two views. First of all, if the municipality makes an inappropriate name today, it breaks the law and, of course, there will be an injunction, that name needs to be changed, and I think this mechanism will work. These two examples, which in the case of Narva (also another Jürna can be speculated), come from a time when Estonia was not independent. We remember that we had such great names as Lenin and everything else that belonged to it. After all, these expenses were to be borne by someone when they were changed. So I don't see any trouble or problem with that if we change the names of the state-cresters. I believe that municipalities or companies, institutions and people can manage the costs of renaming them. But it is also true that we did not address financial issues in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U8	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This amendment is furnished as follows: the person's name cannot be named as a dedication if the person has acted against the creation of the Republic of Estonia, the maintenance of the constitutional order or the restoration of Estonia's independence. Perhaps we have three components in place within the framework that concern this draft. But for me, it is unclear at the moment what these legal frameworks are for who will decide on this issue. As you yourself pointed out in your report, sometimes these cases are completely borderline. I'm afraid if this thing stays on the local government level, it'll turn into an emotional level. Shouldn't there perhaps be some sort of special committee made up of historians rather than relying on the different historical approaches given in the newspaper?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U10	In fact, that is what the Commission is for. I said that the process would become more flexible and bureaucracy would be less. Name Panel or Name Panel... I'll tell you exactly what it's called. Indeed, the Minister also makes this precept on this basis. I'm sorry, the House Names Board is the exact name of this thing. It is the Council that gives its opinion, and on this basis the Minister must act.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U11	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U12	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Did you discuss this local initiative in the Commission, let us say, the possibility? Do you have any good examples when the locals may have proposed, but this has not been confirmed? I only remember one, if somehow the town of Tartu did not want Madrus Street. Well, no wonder there's no sea there, but there's no war to ask, if there's still a submarine in the Emajõgi River, he's there. Is it Mardus or sailor, what's more appropriate? Does the local government immediately take a priori that this is a local initiative, let's say Ninel, with one i, then we have Lenin backwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U13	We did not discuss this issue in the Commission. These are now more extreme examples, which should be resolved when we talk about places that bear the name of those who act against the Estonian state. But there has also been more opinion on parallel names or on the names of the new streets. If we think back, for example, we have had an administrative reform that led to a series of renamings. There, I think, the House Names Council has a job though, branch and supplementary names, and all these questions continue to be on the seat of the House Names Council. Indeed, when I say that it has been made more flexible, less bureaucratic, this bill certainly does.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U14	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U15	Thank you. Good Heiki, you've got a lot of local government experience of your own. I listened to what you said about self-government autonomy. On the one hand, I fully agree that the municipality has autonomy and must have it. Then I heard you say that in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the specific question concerning street names would be excessive interference with the autonomy of the municipality. My question is, rather, how do you still appreciate from the Commission, is that quite an adequate position? If you look at the law on the organisation of local government and, for example, the flag regulation, it is clearly stated that the municipality can take the flag, but it must coordinate it with the State Chancellery and it must still comply with the separate requirements. No one can take the red flag with a sickle and a hammer. In this case, this amendment serves the purpose that the names of the people who acted against Estonia's independence should not be the names of the local government units. Why don't you try to explain a little bit about the municipality's autonomy? And why is the Ministry of Finance taking such a stand?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U16	In the case of the names of Dauman, Timann and Johannes Jürna, I see no barrage in the renaming. Indeed, there is often talk here of a 'constitutional gesture', and it is not the same with this barrier to autonomy that is as intense as it is. With these comrade names, I really don't see a problem with changing. However, the Commission was also consulted (we did not discuss it for a long time) by a name such as Juhan Smuul: whether the street with his name could be or could not be. We know, as I said in my speech, that this is the place where a person has been active against the Estonian state, which certainly has happened with these first three people and there is no doubt about it, or has rather been passive. Where we draw this line, that's actually a question, and how far we're going with it. In my opinion, this is the place of debate or debate. I also said that the Members of the Commission also had the idea that perhaps this should be debated and that, in the end, this line should be drawn exactly in court. The Commission considered that this obviously was not necessary, that our municipalities were smart enough and that they could make these changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U17	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U18	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I was not at the second Commission meeting; it was discussed at the first Commission meeting. My memory of the agreement with the Ministry of Finance was that they would complement their amendment and make the implementation part a little more specific. That's where we had the main argument about how to apply this principle. In fact, we all agree now that commitment names should not be the names of the state cults; there is no debate about this. The dispute is over the application. Did they change it, did a new amendment come or did it remain the same? I ask to understand exactly what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U19	That's the way it is now. I will read it out: "The Minister responsible for the administration proposes that the designated person should be moved to paragraph 42 of this section (This is then that these names should not be used. (H.H.) the terms of reference referred to without delay after receiving a proposal from the Council for the designation of the seat to comply with the law. " That is what the Commission agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U20	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Kalle Grünthal asked the question that I wanted to ask. But I had some practical interest. First, the word "red writer" was used either in the report or in the answer to a question. I would like to know what you mean by that, who are the red writers dedicated to some place names in Estonia. Point two, this is very specific: who has acted against the creation of the Republic of Estonia, the maintenance of constitutional order or the restoration of Estonia's independence. But if Valgas group of initiativeful citizens chooses to name the street as Ho Chi Minhi, or Paides Fidel Castro, they have not done all this, have they?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U22	I wouldn't really be dissecting Estonian literature here right now. Indeed, we did not do that in the Commission, nor did we start sorting out anyone. Anyone can look and think for themselves. There are different things written. I'm not going to say any additions here right now, but "Poem Lenin" or "Järvesuu boys' brigade," which I had to read at school, because it was compulsory literature, certainly are examples of this. If today this writer had re-independence in Estonia with us in this information room, he might not be writing these things like this again. It could be that way. That is why I am not answering this question in more detail. However, I do point out one thing: usually, the place name must still be dignified. Now these two names. Indeed, Fidel Castro has not fought against Estonia's independence; you are absolutely right about that. I don't see a problem in this context. On this basis, this amendment certainly cannot be implemented. From now on, this is the issue. I cannot find this point in the law currently in force, which states that in principle the place name should be in accordance with good practice and other such conditions. That's why we have a sit-call council, who's giving his opinion. There's professionals there. They'll do their job. They also work well with local governments, which has been shown in practice. As a matter of fact, there have been debates and debates. I am absolutely convinced that there are or are professionals working there and that they can work well with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U23	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! One part of this discussion was related to how big and what these possible sanctions should be, if the local authority ignores this maybe the generally accepted principle and chooses a name for a place that really should not be in accordance with these rules. But would you describe the process to the hall if a local government wanted to call the street Stalin Street, for example? So what's really gonna happen? In fact, it was the same idea that we were already sanctioning the local government too much, that he should be able to decide independently. But what happens in our jurisdiction and in our country if someone decides to name it? We do not know in advance what the results of local governments or their current positions may be. Please tell me what's really gonna happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U25	Actually, it's not that easy for you to put any name. It can be challenged, the place name can also be challenged. As I said, the House Names Council gives its opinion and it is possible for the State to challenge it. But it is also possible to challenge the residents in the administrative court. That's actually the way it is right now. But this process will become a little less bureaucratic if this law enters into force. It's not quite like that, though, that it's a stupid idea to really put a name like that on the street, as you said. Yes, that decision will then be challenged specifically. What are we stuck behind? We are stuck behind the fact that these names, which have given rise to a lot of debate, have been put before Estonia regained independence, and with the administrative procedure, we cannot change them so easily in the current legal space. We have introduced a concept of value that I think is very reasonable and correct. This place name does not always have to be named according to the name of a particular person; the place name may also be otherwise inappropriate, such as derogatory or otherwise inappropriate. Even then, the same process will take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U26	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U27	Thank you, Chairman. Good waitress! Quite interesting and intriguingly, this law will enter into force on 1 December. Some people get certain emotions about the day, but that's completely irrelevant. Our history is, of course, complex and full of contradictions, and who is still discussing it, if not us here, not specifically in our hall, but all of us in Estonia. We also remember that three years ago there was a big discussion about whether the series of events dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia could begin in St Petersburg and an event dedicated to the manifestation of Estonians, where Estonian autonomy was required. But a little bit of the question relates to the fact that you gave an example when the matter was solved in one municipality so that the first name was taken away from the street name. According to this same model, Stalin can be called street name completely free, and Jossif Stalin will be in trouble. But that's the question. There is also a lack of action in this list, let's say, that is to fight for the survival of foreign power. Red writers would go down there very well. Will canceling the first name solve the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U28	Thank you. I won't. That's a good question. I've been thinking that tricking like that isn't a good tone. Everyone knows the history of this name. The fact that we take the first name out of the way and think that the problem has been solved is no, that is not good. If you still have a name that doesn't fit, you should change that name. The Estonian language is so rich that we find many beautiful names. We find many good people among our people, whose name could be called the streets. So I don't think that's the solution, that we're taking the first name out of the way and that we think the problem is solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U29	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U30	Thank you very much. Good waitress! The round of questions started with the question of costs and costs being incurred. This is, of course, very important, because this situation, which is now and which is already regulated, and in which we are used to living, is not a problem. If we have to implement this amendment in order to change the existing names, which are now, then it will inevitably entail quite significant costs. This is not only in terms of changing street signs or something like that or just a name formally anywhere, it can really be done in 20, 30, 60 days, but there are costs for businesses, for example, there is a need to change forms. Was there still no specific debate on these costs? What about these expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U31	Thank you. It was not in the Commission. I know that this is the case with Jürna, which I have used here as an example, as was the case with the reason why it was thought that we would take away the first name and that everything would be solved, that companies would otherwise have a certain cost that had not been planned. Of course, we must also stand up for the economic livelihood of businesses and people, but somewhere this is also a value-based issue. We need to consider these things. In my opinion, if we have a digital society and a change in company forms is rather that you enter a new street name on your computer, it still has relatively little effect. I have to say that, as a local government manager, and not at all, in the sense that the names would have been inconvenient in any way, it was still necessary to make certain changes to the addresses. It was very uncomfortable for people, I agree. It was necessary to explain why they had to be made. But I think every municipality makes these changes once a year, or at some point, anyway, it's strictly technical. The streets will be extended, renamed, the houses will be counted from one end or the other, and this will all change that. In this sense, nothing is very extraordinary here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U32	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U33	Good President! Honourable waitress! I would rather quickly try to look at the name Juhan Smuul, which has already sounded several times today. He realized very well at the end of his life that his youth was too brave. That is what his tragic end shows. He didn't even reach the age of 50 and solved his problems with alcohol. But why don't you elaborate on the reasons why I missed my ears, I'm sorry! The Eerik-Niles Kross proposal was not supported by the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U34	When we talk about the debate, it was perhaps the most important part of the debate. In the Commission, this value-based part did not raise anyone's question, nor did the Minister raise any question in his letter, nor did the Minister's representative, who had been sent to explain to us, raise any question. I'm gonna find the right places right now, and I'm gonna bring up a few points of view. The representative of the Ministry, Martin Kulp, was present on the Commission and, to summarise briefly, he said that the local government has a wide range of choice and decision-making powers and the precept limits the autonomy of the local government, the regulation of a case-by-case law opens up a political channel for intervention in local life in border cases, and it is problematic for the state to make injunctions on matters requiring a very subjective assessment. Then, indeed, there was a debate about the 30 days of whether it would be possible or not to change it during that period. I will see if Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, has further explained this in the letter from the Ministry of Finance. In fact, there are two in favour of this amendment. One is to make the so-called revision, 60 days would have been the subject of the revision. And then it's a matter of change. My arguments or explanations were currently about these changes. Maybe we should explain the subject of this 60-day review. Indeed, there was a debate on this too. On the side of the Government of the Republic, such an answer was that such a one-off task of placing the name council and the Minister of State Administration in the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic do not support. It doesn't just have to do with street names at all. If you wanted to make a review like this, street names are one thing, but the other way around, commitment names may also be placed on schools and whatever, other objects. Then we should deal with them too. Maybe I'll read it again. Indeed, the question in that letter was that it is believed that the very case on the border, the government of which was acting, is going to be too severe a gesture: "... needs clarification as to whether the fight against the creation of the Republic of Estonia, the maintenance of constitutional order or the restoration of Estonia's independence is taken into account, for example, in the form of press opinions or arguments against the Republic of Estonia in fictional form, or in the form of praise for Soviet power. This is how Estonian literature knows writers whose names are used as dedicated names, but whose creative work may reveal a strong Soviet mindset during some creative periods. The subjective aspect of assessing the suitability of a name is problematic in terms of supervision. " It was like the most important argument about where to draw this line, let us say, on the side of the Government of the Republic, represented by the Minister of State Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U35	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U36	My question also concerns which place names and street names might be appropriate. Remembering history, the first international organisation to recognise the right of people to self-determination was the Second International Organisation of Labour Parties, Socialists and Communists. There was also a very well-known Russian Bolshevik who wrote very clearly by the principle of self-determination of the peoples on the basis of which the Republic of Estonia was established. His name was Vladimir Ilyich Lenin, signed by the Russian delegation at the conclusion of the Tartu Peace Treaty. Now, when I think about this law, are street names such as the Second International or Vladimir Ilyich Lenin not only in accordance with this law, but in a sense even recommended? After all, they worked for the creation of such an Republic of Estonia. Let us also look at who was the first country to recognise Estonia. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U37	No, you don't get it right at all. Your understanding is still 180 degrees the other way around than at least my understanding. It's really weird to set Lenin an example. I was ready for anything today, but to be honest, I wasn't ready for it, I'm honest with you. That's the question. Of course, there is no doubt about Lenin at all. You still have to appreciate the collection, and Lenin was not a gift to the Estonian people now. That's all I'd say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U38	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! When you think of street names, city names and the names of big systems like this, I'm pretty much clear. But did you think that, for example, farm names are also the ones that go into the register? If a good person wants to name his farm Vladimir Ilyich Lenin's farm, is that acceptable?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U40	No, it's not. It's covered by all the same conditions as street names. No, it's not. That's what really came up with the question of the so-called audition that street names are only a small part of the place names. You can't really put a farm name like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U41	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U42	I listened carefully to what you read in the explanations of Mr Kulb, the explanations of the Ministry of Finance. I'm sorry, but I didn't understand them at all. In the sense that if this is an intervention in the life of the municipality, we have understood something very misunderstood. If we take the position that is stated there, it really seems logical that if the municipality decides to take the flag of a red flag with a sickle and a hammer, or if it decides to name all its streets at one point according to the Red Communists, then everything is as okay as this initiative has come from the municipality and it is the autonomy of the municipality. It's not! That is why we are sitting here in this Chamber to agree on these rules, which are in the value room of the Estonian state. I understand that this amendment, which Eeriku has made, coincides with our value area: so that the names of people who acted against the Estonian state on our streets would not have been on our streets. In other words, all these reasons have actually been sought, and the same is that there is a need for a complex look. No. So I ask you again: does the Coalition support Erik's proposal or not? In fact, all the other reasons are secondary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U43	After all, the one who supports what will be revealed in the vote. I have pointed out what discussions were in the Commission and how it was voted on. Maybe I'll go over a few more points. What has not been said more about is that, in today's judicial space, indeed, apart from the meaning of such a word's force, the precept and proposal have been equal in their power. If we write 'prescription' but there are no sanctions, it is nothing more than a proposal. This was one of the points of discussion in the Commission. This is the place now. I don't think there's gonna be a problem with Timann and the other comrades like that, and we don't see that grating here, but it's more of a question of 'frontier cases'. I believe in our local governments in the general principle, I also believe that there are professionals on the seat name board, and it is still possible to make it clear that some of the names remaining from the previous period of occupation will be changed. Today it is no longer possible to name such names; the law precludes this. Everything's in place in that respect. This issue of value that we are solving here today is more about what has come to us from the period of occupation and which we have not yet been able to get rid of to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U44	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U45	Thank you! The talk that went on about religion already got really weird. I don't understand either. At this point in time, we should believe the officials of the Ministry of Finance who wish to perpetuate the occupation and make excuses why nothing can be done. And the best solution is, it's just a simple precept. In the same way, you can text your mother-in-law that maybe this will solve much bigger problems. But what did the Commission now mean that the Commission itself would come out with a straight back? It is not that the Commission says: 'We did not want to solve the problems, but we gave the chance that the Minister could make an injunction. "The minister can shut up here on Patkul's stairs, right, "I don't like it!" or, "I like it! " I'd like something more meaningful. How does the Commission resolve this situation so that it does not remain a mere precept, but that the names of these red criminals are not the street names of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U46	Well, maybe I'll have to go over a few more moments. First of all, we didn't have a discussion about these so-called red criminals. I believe that this is also not the place where it is felt that the autonomy of the local government is being restricted. In lawmaking, of course, you must also see these options or think in advance that indeed, perhaps someone will have an idea, for example, of a writer or a journalist of his own time who has expressed his views and would like to name it. Rather, it is an argument about whether or not it is a barricade. But I would also say that, indeed, the proposals that have been made and which were on our table have only been different from this verbal side. Neither of them has been directly responsible for sanctioning the injunction and the proposal. Neither would the precept have been a sanction, although the word itself is a little more forceful, I agree with that. I would say that if this problem is not resolved, then we must come back and look at it again, but then we must also provide for a sanction for this precept, otherwise there is no point. But I guess we'll have to come back to that if this problem is still up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U47	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I support this bill, but any good thing could go too far and run away. I am surprised that the most problematic case was Juhan Smuul.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U49	He was just given an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U50	There were many more marked examples, such as Georg Ots and Gustav Ernesaks, both working very actively on the side of the occupying powers. Gustav Ernesaks, I recall, wrote the Estonian SSR anthem etc. I offer two principles, both based on the wisdom of a peasant. The first is the principle of weight. Which is more, is the contribution to Estonian culture? Does it outweigh what he did for the occupying powers or not? And the other is the blood principle: whether or not the hands are bloody. The question is, how do you feel about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U51	Absolutely, one hundred percent agree, that's exactly what it is. You really have to think about it here, look at it. I don't remember exactly who brought him out first, and we didn't dissect his question very long, I have to say it. There was no in-depth discussion about his role or how he was involved in Soviet power. It just came up. This is also referred to in a letter from the Minister for Public Administration, not as a specific person, but as a reference to this question, to the drawing of its boundary, to its consideration. So I agree with you, one hundred percent, that we should see that our hands are not bloody and consider contributing to our society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U52	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U53	Thank you. A good colleague, Hanno Pevkur, pointed out that we need to talk about value space. Doesn't it seem to you that when you make names, it's a really good thing to sew a place on broken pants, but maybe you need new pants or you need to fix more pants? In fact, we see a massive exorcism of Estonian names or former Estonian names, an exorcism of farm names among place names, a replacement with a flower and a button. We can also see what I can only give you one example of. For example, Estonian ecclesiasticalism was very well known in August Nigo, whose street was converted to Mai Street. It's still Mai Street, and it doesn't really matter. In fact, there is still a long theory here that I cannot talk about, that could be discussed in the Committee on Culture. Isn't the amendment to our name law forbiding-managed-style and doesn't it underestimate the wider sense and understanding of value space?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U54	The Estonian language is a rich language, and our people are a rich nation in that we have had dignified daughters and sons whose names we could place or use as place names. There is no doubt about that. I think this bill will also make it a little more flexible. The local naming council is becoming more of a partner. I've been talking to them since I was a parish elder, and I've been discussing the subject. We have also found solutions for renaming together, we have not been to trial, and I think that, in this sense, this law will certainly improve the situation rather. I am absolutely convinced that we are proud of our names, Estonian names and proud of our people, whose names are truly worthy, say, carry forward and who have done a great deal of good for the Estonian state. I fully agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U55	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U56	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I will comment quickly on the issue of the barrier to local self-government autonomy, which has been repeatedly mentioned here, that our proposal and, at the same time, the amendment really do involve some interference with the autonomy of local authorities. But the question is, will this sling outweigh the good we achieve? Even now, for example, by law, the name of a living person must not be called a dedicated name. If the mayor wants to make a place with his name on it, he can't. It's also a barricade, we're violating the autonomy of the local government. He wants to, but the law won't allow it. So in this sense, the ministry has a bit of a blank story that it's a huge streak and we're somehow going against the point of the Constitution. No, it's not. We're just setting a general accepted standard. Every local authority still has to comply with the law and must also comply with the law. I recommend voting in favour of the third amendment. It would provide some time frames and, however, apply this law in essence. All these considerations, whether or not a single name is suitable for that purpose are the Council for the Name of the Places. This is not decided in the slightest by the law; it remains a discretion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U57	Thank you. I mean, that is really why we are here to vote and shape this opinion. The Commission has also made its own proposals, and these have been reported to you. But once again, the proposal and the precept in this context are actually equal in this respect. If there was a clear sanction behind the precept, we could say that one is stronger than the other. Indeed, if we have talked today about three names of this problem, but perhaps there will be something else like this that will not be solved, then we should really think about sanctions. But perhaps, as a society, we can finally resolve these issues. At the moment, they are truly equal in strength.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U58	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your healthy and wise answers. I would like to speak for a moment on the subject of who, during the Soviet era, he was then a writer, an artist, an actor, one way or the other, collaborated with power. There aren't many who didn't. The question, of course, is in what form. Let's not get too crazy about this, we can't start putting together criminals with blood on our hands and people's artists from the Soviet Union. My question is, after all, why don't you explain why you can't do it in 30 days?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U60	Yes, I will start by saying that, indeed, here is the question, I fully agree with you that we must not go crazy with this whole thing. These three villains cannot attract water to all of us, figuratively speaking, cultural people who were active during the occupation period. I agree with that one hundred percent. But if we're talking about this 30 days now, there's two options. One option is when the municipality has mandated the municipality to solve these issues either by the municipality government or by the municipality government. Then it'll be a little faster and more flexible. But if this mandate is left to the council, then, as a rule, the council meets once a month, there are periods of notice, just as there are committees in the Riigikogu, before going to the council, these questions also go through the council. In that case, if we change the place name, it must be made public. You must receive feedback from the people affected, you must give them the right to express your opinion within a reasonable period of time, and then answer whether or not you take their proposal into account. Only then can you make a decision. It usually doesn't fit in 30 days. Of course, everything can be done with extraordinary meetings, briefings. However, one general act should be established not on the basis of the principle of exceptional operation, but on the basis of the principle of regular operation. In this sense, obviously 30 days is short. If we ever come to this, I will say once again that, for example, we cannot do with these three names and must start implementing enforcement mechanisms, then we must definitely extend this period as well. It's just important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U61	Thank you, good waitress. No more questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U62	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U63	Now let's go to the negotiations. All members of the Riigikogu may speak. First, I'd like to ask for a speech chair here to Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I sat down and remembered a few years ago a good friend of mine brought me a book and offered to read, there's a lot of interesting. I started reading, it was really interesting. There was a talk about a group of youths traveling in Siberia. Suddenly a quote came up, the author of which was from Estonia. He wrote that my country had become so great since Estonia was part of the Soviet Union. Then he spoke of what good Communism would bring if it would ever come. There were some weird discussions, telling you by memory, about 180 tons of gold for every person when Communism arrives. And, you know, the author was Lennart Meri. So Ernesaks, Georg Ots, Juhan Smuul and Lennart Meri. However, I cannot agree with you when you say that one person's words or sins don't cost anything, that he has no blood on his hands. But who told you that? Who did he promote, who did he give enthusiasm to? You know perfectly well that man can be civilized in appearance, some are even Nobel Prize winners, the Peace Prize winners of people who have started wars where millions of people have died. And right now I'm hearing that some of them are top-top, they're fine, but that's what they are! And right next to it, the place name board. I always thought that we were living in a democratic country and that if we had someone to decide who was a villain, who wasn't a villain, then it would be a court. Maybe it turns out you don't need a trial. But why is he even needed? They're gonna arrest a human being, right, indictment of money laundering or murder or nothing. God, it's even easier if we give it to the people and let the people decide. Or a place name commission. You know, if you're gonna come up with something to suggest to somebody, you're gonna have to make a decision back there. Democracy is primarily a procedure. And court proceedings may be the first in this line, not the voting procedure. Now historical individuals. You know perfectly well that historians still fight among themselves, who was Konstantin Päts, the opinions are from wall to wall. Who will decide whether this person is worthy of a place name or not worthy of it? Is it a commission? But one thing I certainly cannot agree with: if I do something on my own initiative, then I will pay for my initiative myself. If you come to my yard now I'm playing a little Tõnisson, don't you think that what they're coming to fight on our yard and you're giving some kind of order that needs to be executed suddenly, with 30 years not needed and now it turns out we need to, we'll split these expenses at least in half. Although, in my opinion, whoever makes the proposals should also pay for it. These problems, in my opinion, are absolutely unsolvable with this draft, either with or without amendments. Those thoughts came to mind. There wasn't much to talk about, but the stories about this bill are so bad, I couldn't believe it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U65	Next is Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U66	Thank you, good Chairman! Good guardians of the Republic! We've become very cultural here today. Let's just start: "When Tarmo arrived at the Riigikogu without his father, the law on place names had not yet been processed. " Perhaps it had been a big and long fine - tuning process. What you are currently monitoring through the Internet is a classic search for arguments why we cannot do anything, but we should continue to perpetuate the occupation. And we even call it nostalgia at times. I don't understand how so-called full-fledged people pick up two liters of beer, put on a police uniform, go to Haapsalu and say it's nostalgia. Just because Heiki says here that maybe we should come back here, then ups, we all heard that 30 years hadn't done anything. We should decide with that knowledge that, well, maybe in two years' time again. Perhaps then the fine tuners will come again, who will see that no fine tune is needed, but we will still be dealing with extremely important and agile things, how we can still get some app, so that we can find out how some kind of abduct has gone somewhere on some dabby-blading plant, and what now will become of this dabby-blading plant when the caterpillar has gone there. "Mama's got red buttons, sister's got red friends. The red one, the red one, went with him before the war. "He came back and lay down on the lawn, "why had he shown himself so German-friendlyly." (Hando Runnel.) Mr Oudekki spoke of Lenin as a good person. But Hitler made animal protection! What are we gonna do with that? Are we gonna change names? We can't do anything but precept at this point because there's a local government barricade. The local elections are next year. Today we are here in the Riigikogu because we have this will. But I can see that this will is not great, but a few have a little bit of it scratching the soul, others think. And as to the fact that there has not been 30 years, Hando Runnel would say: "There is still seven hundred years to be resisted, just as seven hundred have already been opposed, [seven hundred years and] at first only one hundred, [maybe that's enough] but certainly not.' I think that this change, if we still give the Minister the opportunity to make this precept, should be substantive. It's not like they're gonna keep it, because these Treasury officials really don't really care what street names are. They are already in the 11th International that money rules the world and let's not do too much earthly business. However, I think that this proposal could be supported. We're straight back too! So we see where the problem is, we dare to look at this problem, and we do not say that there is no problem itself, that even if it is painted in the middle of the hall and red, we walk past it and say that there is no problem. The problem is. Just as a good co-worker said just before me: for 30 years we have managed peacefully, why can't we now? Because they didn't dare, because when Tarmo came to the Riigikogu without his father, it was still not over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U67	Next, please address Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U68	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, As was said about this law, the task is to write a good tone in the law. Good tone, good intentions, see, they led to such a debate this time. Somehow, it seems to me that yes, here everyone expressed their opinion, but in the end, it happens that everyone is friendly to this law. But it is a really good tone, good practice, because the task is, yes, that no one would be tempted again to give us Adolf Hitler Strasse or Plošchad Lenina, right? Although all this has ever been in Estonia. But if you go a little further from here, wouldn't you listen, but what about the fact that Peter I's memorial was ever there, right? But in 1918 it was taken down, because by cutting a window into Europe, he had trampled thousands and tens of thousands of Estonians here, but there is a garden called Catherine, his not-so-beautiful woman? Not only does the castle of the same name live in our presidency. How these two women are connected, I don't know. Wow, but Stenbock's house! Baron von Stenbock, he didn't do anything to restore Estonia's independence, and his peasants hardly took a good look at him. He was famous for having fought Uexküll and was beaten up by peasants somewhere in Hiiumaa, and certainly for the sake of the matter. Gustav Adolf was 1632 a great friend or liberator of Estonia, but his daughter, Queen Kristiina, even betrayed the Swedish people, left Sweden with the Portuguese ambassador Pimentel, abandoned her religion, didn't she? But, by the way, when he was in exile, his pension was so-called income from Ösel Island, or Saaremaa. There you go. And all these names are good for us somehow. If we think a little bit more, we should ban them with the Patkul stairs. But what's left? Asshole Mats buried in the cemetery of the Kullamaa Church. I've seen his cross there and been bowing. Look, don't go too far. It is said here that there is a local level and a national level. This mind is quite local. If such questions, which are among good practices, morality, ethics, we try to cut everyone into the law, then nothing good will come of them. One must decide something with one's own mind. This mind is not all gathered here from the local level (especially when we look at today's discussion), below is the mind. But I'd like to talk a little bit more about the mind. Can I have three more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U69	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U70	Yeah, the mind is worth it. And he's totally local. When the new streets were at the Tiskre stream in Haaberstis, and the names of the fishing vessels began to be given to them, the seines, the cocks, the stings ran out and came from a very important language aunts from the Institute of Language and Culture or from an institution like this, and brought with them a name such as "hui" that it was some very old fishing tool. But you know, half the residents are there of Russian nationality, right, they said that if they had to live on a street like this, they were even a little hesitant, hesitated, hesitated how to turn it right, then they wouldn't pay taxes to this country. The language lady cut iron: it is an Estonian word, and you Russians have nothing to say about it. But at local level, the local administration (then there was the administrative body) voted and sent the aunt to length. However, some other fish were found to be smuggled, the name of which was put on that street. It worked out. Yeah, well, it's all gonna work out nicely on a local level. Well, we can't travel much around Europe right now, but all European capitals are full of monuments to the executioners of their people, to the authorities, to dictators and to mass murderers. All of them stand up, and there are streets called them, because this, good people, is history. There is no writer in Estonia who, living in Soviet times, would not have started some of his newspaper articles with the words "According to the decisions of the 24th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union." Oh, I've even written stuff like that. But there was no other way back then. Are they enemies of the people? Yeah, well, there's a lot of sense on the local level. So I think this law is going through nicely. But we have too many laws trying to regulate things that do not need regulation. Soon we'll get to the fact that we're gonna create a law that you can't spit down a tram stop, okay, and then it turns out you can stop the trolley. So as long as there's morality, as long as there's ethics... No, I'm not talking about this house, of course, yes, on a local level, it's totally there, there's normal people living there, they can do it. Sometimes it feels like the less we make noise in this house, the better people on the local level can do. What matters is how they do it. So there's a law, like it is, so we're going to adopt such a law and hope that the mind will always last. On a local level, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U71	I'm asking for a speech chair in Aadu Black.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The story of names is something that requires a certain professionalism. I come from a city called Tartu, where there is a university and where many specialties learn the discipline called onomatics (this is the theory of people's names) and toponymies. I was sometimes startled when we came up with a topic that is considered to be a primary education or an introduction to a specialty. There's always been a debate on names, I'm just repeating a few moments. The biggest name struggles in Estonia were a little more than a hundred years ago. Once upon a time, it was found that the names of the emperors should be given to the parishes. A hundred years ago, it was decided to rename all Estonian cities. Tallinn was supposed to be a good place to sound, Paide Belogorsk, Belokamensk was also one of the options, it was found that Weissenstein, or Paetee, should be translated beautifully into the official language. The best one was Rakverega, and it was found that it could be Rakobor and not Rakovor, that such a name was found somewhere in the Russian chronicle. 85 years ago, there was another major change of place names in Estonia when it was found that all Germans had to be grubbed up. At first it was said that we would grub the Catholic saints out of the names, but then it turned out that they were also in names that were considered very Estonian. Even Palamuse, came out, is Saint Bartholomew, which the Estonian chin did not say, but was Palamuse, wasn't it? Whether or not to grub it out was a bit of a problem. Kalev was the best name in your town, and there was a Kalev factory. 60 years ago, there was also a big name dispute, not much of which has been said. A letter came from Moscow. Some high boss drove to Tallinn and met Kappel Street. He knew that Kappel was the Chief of Staff of Kolchak. Then Arnold Green wrote the answers and said that one of the composers was also named and he was Estonian. There have indeed been many disputes in local governments since then. A very serious illness has still been a lack of professionalism. In Estonia, in the course of administrative reforms, the names that were already in the 1515 Review Book have been gathered on a massive scale and replaced by the names of the 1925 Settlers' farms. It was a little unhappy. I remember from the council of Tartu when it was discussed that the names of Ignatsi, Mütta and Dick Tree farm should not be given to the streets that have arisen on the same spot. True, there was also the fact that the dick tree was thought to refer to the flasher and that maybe it was something very bad, even though it was the best tool material, still a dick tree, sorry, nothing else. But later we got along and we've regulated these mistakes to the Admirals and the sailors' disputes. What's the main problem with the whole thing? I remember that great-grandmother skirt joke. I remember that, unfortunately. Mummy had a skirt so patched up that she had to look everywhere for a piece of clothing to put a new place on her skirt when she was tearing off somewhere again. Eventually, Daddy drove into town, bought a new skirt, and in the morning, Nana was so happy that she had cut it into quite a patch and said that she now had a piece of clothing for many years. I like it. Things need to be answered. That's right. That's the detail, but what turns me on is that we're taking a step. Unlike those who say that we should not take this step, I say that it is now itchy, that this thing should go on. The most important thing is that there must be a smart, decisive link (and it does not have to be a parliament) where professionals really appreciate the true cultural value of names. You know, I'm about to say that there must be a representative of the National Archives who can find the good old names if necessary. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U73	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U74	Indeed, we have a huge number of names, so maybe that's what's good, which is comfortable or changed. Just a while ago, Marko and I were talking about Pärnu's names. There are people (some people know and recognize) who have gone down in the history of the world; they are not remembered in the history of Estonia. There was an honorary citizen in Pärnu and the first author of Rail Baltic (in small quotes), 1883, Konstantin Possie. It was Possie Street. Since the name was complicated for Estonians, it is now Post Street. Is it supposed to be Post Street or is it supposed to be Possiet Street? But these are details. Basic: Names are a very important part of a national culture that must not be overpoliticised. But for my sake, we're gonna take this Nigoli street that's been through my question. We're talking about receivers. What about the builders? And when these builders are groomed, are these streets supposed to be Mai or Lille or Spring Street, or should they be revised? In other words, it would go further together in order for the House Names Committee to be much more competent and perhaps more decisive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U75	Thank you. There's no more calls. Next, we need to examine the proposed amendments. The first amendment, the author Eerik-Niles Kross, is the position of the commission on the subject. Amendment 2, from the Committee on Rural Affairs, the position of the commission is to take full account of. Amendment 3, tabled by Eerik-Niles Kross, the position of the commission is to be disregarded. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U76	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U77	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote, but first we'll do a hall call. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 3 tabled by Mr Kross. The Governing Commission's proposal is to disregard this. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-20_U78	The proposal is forty, against 47 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs, proposed by the commission on behalf of the Commission, is to be fully taken into account. The commission has proposed to conclude the second reading of the draft 186. The second reading is closed and today's session is closed. Have a nice day, everybody!
