ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on the 10th working week. It is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Incoming check, please! 50 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present; no 51 members are present. Ladies and gentlemen, Clarification of the agenda. On today's first item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, a member of the Riigikogu Kalvi Tõud will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U2	And let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the Bill 162 on Amending the Health Insurance Act, which was initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. But before that, there's a procedural question. Please! Mr. Grünthal's microphone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Last week, a few days ago, I had a conversation on the phone with Tanel Kiige, who answered my question about what would happen if a so-called coronal nest was found in the Riigikogu or someone got sick, that a very good question, but also said he couldn't answer it. According to my knowledge, he is now in quarantine for 14 days due to the Saaremaa visit. I have this question: if we now have an analogous case here that some of us are infected, then what happens next, how do we do it? Has the body of elders discussed this? Because Boris Johnson is currently in intensive care, and in his example, we know that the virus has no mercy on high officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U4	Thank you. The board has discussed this issue and the body of elders has also discussed these issues. There are certain rules of conduct here, and there are plans, but we'll come to them when it turns out to be true. We hope that there will be no such need in the Riigikogu. For now, however, we can move on to the agenda. I ask Mr Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U5	Good afternoon. Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Respecting the health of all of you, especially here at the front, I also wear a mask. Good friends! We are discussing a bill 162 which the Social Democratic Party Group sent to the Riigikogu on 12 March. The draft amends the Health Insurance Act with the aim of providing people with sickness benefits from the first day in case of suspected infection with the Corona virus and COVID-19 disease. If an infectious disease is suspected, the sickness fund would pay the sickness benefit from day one until the capacity for work has recovered. The amount of sickness benefit is 70% of the average salary of the employee. The purpose of the draft is to protect people's health and their income in a situation where a person has to stay at home in the event of a suspected infectious disease. The Government of the Republic and the Health Board have asked for 14 days to stay at home for people who have signs of the virus, who have close contact with the infected person or who have returned from the risk area. Being isolated at home is essential to control the spread of infection. We all know that according to the law in force, a person cannot receive compensation from day one to day four, and from day four to day eight, the employer will pay it 70%. We are pleased that the objective of the draft that we have initiated has, in some respects, already been partially achieved. In the current emergency situation, the Government has decided to grant an exemption and to reimburse retroactively for all open sick leave from 13 March until the end of the emergency period the first three days of illness. For that, we commend the coalition and the government. However, a major drawback of the government's plan is that compensation for the fourth to eighth days of sick leave must still be paid by the employer. However, in such a crisis, many employers are in a difficult economic situation and need public support. The purpose of the draft that we have initiated is that people suspected of being infected should be reimbursed by the sickness fund, from the first day to the day of recovery of the capacity to work indicated on the sick leave. We are asking for this bill to be supported. We admit that since the draft has been submitted on 12 March, at the very moment that we started to see more korona.. in Estonia, it has been written in too few working hours and maybe not all the nuances have been taken into account here, but all of this can be improved by the amendments. I think that, above all, this law is needed by our entrepreneurs. Thank you. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U6	Thank you. Indeed, you also have questions. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U7	Thank you. You already slipped into the subject a little bit. On 12 March, you handed over the bill, perhaps it was urgent, it was done in a few hours of sleep, and whatever. I wanted to ask if you can tell me what has changed in the meantime and what you would have written differently in this draft if it had been on 12 March what is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U8	One thing that would certainly have been different is that the law is not meant to be valid all the time. It's meant to prevent the virus in this case. Perhaps then, of course, we would have improved the Law on communicable diseases and added this virus to it, just as the government's draft has done. But as we know, the viruses that put us in today's situation are coming overnight, they're not foreseen for years. This is why we also made this draft, knowing that before the Riigikogu went to the session-free week, the Social Affairs Committee and the Government Coalition would have one key to go on. Because, as we know, all people are actually expecting this law, and in the current crisis situation, we should first and foremost forget about who tabled some draft in this Chamber. Once again, we recognise the government that with this draft, which was here yesterday at first reading, the first to third day of illness has been solved for people, but we believe that there is an unresolved employer's concern, the fourth to eighth day. Of course, there are also questions about self-employed people, etc., but I think that these things we all need to think about together here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U9	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This bill certainly has its own budgetary implications. I understand that, according to your plan, the state would not only compensate for the first to third days, but would also bear the cost of the employer, which is from the fourth to the eighth day. So, what exactly is the financial impact of this particular draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U11	Thank you, good Tõnis! When this bill is implemented, people pay attention to their symptoms at an early stage, i.e. they don't have to worry about pay, so the disease virus doesn't spread that much, and people survive more, so the price that we may have thanks to this law is very high.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U12	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U13	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You didn't answer the question, Kalvi. Two things are very important about each bill: one is what is an item of expenditure, i.e. how much it is, and which money comes from or from. I do not see either of these lines in this draft. I can just help you out a little bit. For example, as a result of the fact that from March onwards, everyone can write out their own sick list, the number of sick leaves increased more than twice as compared to the previous year. Maybe about 18 million is the cost that's been going on for the first three days. Maybe you know now how much it costs for the employees. The cost of the first half is known. How much is the other half? After all, there should be at least two more months, the amount of which needs to be known, and then it should be taken into account whether the additional budget needs to be drawn up in the form of a loan. At the moment, we are also discussing an additional budget. Where's the money coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U14	Yeah. Got it. Yeah, sorry, Tõnis, I didn't exactly answer your question. But I sincerely think, Aivar, that every move we make in this Chamber has a cost. And one component of this cost is how many people stay on the sick list. Like you said, in the first three weeks or even less time, registered both and so many people on their own sick leave. We don't have that cost. I'll be honest, we don't have that cost. Let's sit down and think things through together, but if this measure reduces people's coming to work with even smaller symptoms, then I think that the benefits are very high. But we don't know the cost, yes, that's an honest answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U15	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U16	Thank you. Hello, all of you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U17	I would now like to ask Mr Möldri, President of the Social Affairs Committee, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U18	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group on three occasions. At the first meeting, the initiators presented the draft, while the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Health Insurance Fund and the unemployment fund participated in the second meeting of the Commission via the video bridge. At its first meeting, held on 16 March, the debate focused in particular on whether this draft would apply only to emergency situations or whether it would remain in force on a permanent basis. Indeed, this draft text does not, for the time being, count with how long a reference it is. In the course of the Commission's debate, we came to this conclusion: the initiator wants this to apply only to emergency situations. The initiators were prepared to clarify the draft text between first and second reading. In addition, on 16 March, we decided to address the Ministry of Social Affairs, the unemployment fund and the health insurance fund on behalf of us in order to obtain an opinion on this draft. And on March 23rd, we discussed this. I shall also briefly read the opinion of the Ministry of Social Affairs on this matter. The Ministry supports the principle of this Bill to amend the Health Insurance Act with a view to ensuring that people are entitled to sickness benefits from the first day in case of suspicion of an infectious disease. However, there are certain concerns that the Ministry wants to resolve differently. If the Health Insurance Act includes an obligation to pay sickness benefit to the Health Insurance Fund to an insured person who is temporarily unable to work for the first day of his employment or post due to a suspected infectious disease, the budgetary situation of the Health Insurance Fund becomes critical in the event of a crisis. This situation is accompanied by a substantial reduction in social tax receipts and an increase in unforeseen costs. Therefore, in the view of the Ministry, it is not reasonable to implement this measure. The Ministry confirmed that it is developing an organization of the Government of the Republic, under which a person temporarily unable to work due to suspicion of an infectious disease is paid from the budget of the Government for the first three days of illness. The Unemployment Insurance Board has also addressed this issue and discussed the draft and suggests that, in a situation such as the one we are dealing with today, it would be reasonable to develop a specific measure only for this special situation. In principle, the Health Insurance Fund agrees with the position of the unemployment fund and in the same way says that a specific targeted measure would still be needed for this emergency situation. The recommendation of the Health Insurance Fund is that the reimbursement should take place not retroactively from 1 March but from the moment the emergency situation was declared and that the first to third day of sickness should be paid until the emergency situation has ended. The Head of the Health Insurance Fund also explained that the current health insurance system does not automatically allow the first to third days to be paid out. Changing it requires certain technological developments and certainly some time expense. At the same meeting, the representative of the Health Insurance Fund also confirmed that this special measure is currently being developed by the government. As we now know, the Health Insurance Fund will receive money from the additional budget, specifically within the framework of this special measure, and then the government will be able to start paying out the first to third day of sickness with its decision. Now for some decisions. On 23 March, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to appoint Tõnis Möldri as rapporteur for the large hall, proposing that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 6 April today is 7 because the Bureau decided to take a new decision in the meantime, and on 31 March it was decided to reject the draft (by 5 votes and 4 against) at first reading. It was decided, by consensus, to set the deadline for amendments at 12 noon on 8 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U19	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are still questions for you. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U20	I would ask the very important question that you asked here, and also the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. So, what's it gonna cost, compensation from day one to day three? If it was thought to be a very good plan, and the government would come with such an idea, what would it cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U21	Thank you. I understand that the initial projections have shown that this order of magnitude could be up to 7 million. However, as far as I am aware, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Social Affairs have also publicly stated that the amounts may be too small in the initial forecasts. People who have taken sick leave precisely because of this crisis are considerably more than initially expected, so the amount could be significantly higher. So in that sense, it is very difficult to predict today, but surely this is the order of magnitude that I dare say today from this remote control, still more than 7 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U22	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 162 at first reading, and we will go to the vote on it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the leading committee to reject 162 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 5 against, no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U23	Today's second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces and the Law on the Amendment of the Chancellor of Justice Act 152 initiated by the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities. I would like to ask Alar Laneman, Chairman of the Special Committee on Security Oversight, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, briefly. This is a law that we have discussed repeatedly in this Chamber, which was rejected by the President of the Republic. We re-accepted him unchanged and the case reached the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court gave its assessment and showed what this weakness is, the contradiction with the constitution that I hope we will take care of with you today. The law dates back to 2018, when the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces decided that the restrictions on the activities of Defence Forces Intelligence should be reduced, in principle speaking of activities related to background control, the implementation of human source intelligence, and the new task of collecting and processing information to protect the Defence Forces' security area. There are, of course, very strong conceptual approaches behind the dry law terminology, one of which I would like to mention separately is prevention. I also have to apologize to you, because at the moment we have today, it may seem that there are more pressing issues, but if we go further, we will see that it is rather the opposite. First of all, the time-criticalness is evident from the fact that the need for a legislative amendment existed already in 2018. Military intelligence, it's defense eyes and ears, they must always be in good condition. Secondly, there is currently a contradiction with the Constitution. Such contradictions are not a good tone. The legislator cannot force the executive to work in a situation where there is such a contradiction. And there is another fact that could be the most serious sign of time-critical. We all know that there is no limit to security issues. As a confirmation of this, we can see how one health problem has started to have a negative impact on the economy, which is likely to also reach the social sphere, and we must do everything we can to ensure that it does not enter into any security issues. That the Defence Forces may be needed, we are now seeing Saaremaa, where there is a field hospital that performs its task and supports civilian structures. Last but not least, when it comes to the security area of the Defence Forces, please remember that we are also responsible for the security of the NATO troops here. Now more specifically. On 19 December 2019 the Supreme Court decided that the Act amending the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces was contrary to the Constitution. The Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, together with the National Defence Committee, discussed the draft at its meeting on 20 January and 10 February. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and their subordinates participated in the meetings in the drafting of the Act amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act. It has been concluded that, in principle, we will change point 15; the rest of the text will remain the same. I will now introduce to you the text of § 40. First, the Defence Forces inform the affected person and supplement § 37 (1) (1) (1) and Article 371 (4) (3) of the Act... Okay, I'll spare you those dry numbers. We're talking covert surveillance to determine the person's suitability for secret cooperation, it's a covert surveillance for background control purposes, or a covert surveillance to protect the security area. Paragraph 2 states that the Defence Forces may not inform a person of the time and type of the act provided for in this subsection if the notification may: 1) seriously prejudice the rights and freedoms of another person as guaranteed by law or put at the risk of another person; 2) endanger a source of information or a person involved in secret cooperation; 3) impair the exchange of information or cooperation of the Defence Forces with a foreign and international organisation. Paragraph 3 states that a person may, at the decision of the Commander of the Defence Forces or of the Head of the Structural Unit authorised by him or her, not be informed until the grounds for non-notification set out in subsection 2 of this section have ceased to exist. Paragraph 4: 'If one year has elapsed since the classification of the information collected by the operation and the basis for not notifying the act provided for in paragraph 2 of this section has not expired, the Commander of the Defence Forces or the head of his authorised structural unit shall decide on a permanent basis not to notify the person, except in the case provided for in paragraph 5 of this section. " And this paragraph 5 says that when it comes to privacy, family or housing, that decision can be made by an administrative court. This regulation has been tightened up. At the beginning of the process, we were clear that we had to involve the best experts possible. It was also important here: on the one hand, the Commission must see that security authorities comply with the law and their actions are practical, but at the same time we also have a moral responsibility that they have all the resources necessary for this work. Second, we propose to the Riigikogu to amend the Chancellor of Justice's Act in the following wording:'§ 91 of the Chancellor of Justice's Act is supplemented by the following wording:'(91) In the context of the task set out in subsection 9 of this section, the Chancellor of Justice shall, at least every two years, monitor the justification for not informing the person of the act under § 40 (2) of the Order of Defence Forces Act. ' Why such thorough regulations? The reason is that, when it comes to proceedings, for example, in criminal proceedings, the person concerned can be seen to be affected in the process. Here it must be balanced by a different monitoring mechanism. The Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities discussed the draft law at its meeting on 17 February. The members of the committee examined the draft law submitted by the Ministry of Defence and approved the text. On 26 February 2020, it was decided to initiate a draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act and the Chancellor of Justice Act. The decision was made by consensus between Alar Laneman, Ivari Padar, Hanno Pevkur and Kaido Häöölson. To sum it up. The draft amends the Defence Forces Organisation Act in order to establish a constitutional regulation on the justification for not informing a person of the existence of discreet surveillance. The draft is based on the fact that the more intensive the interference with the fundamental rights of a person with a disguised processing operation, the more concrete and effective the procedural guarantees ensuring compliance with the obligation to provide information. The proposal for monitoring during the discussions, the amendment of the Chancellor of Justice Act, where the Chancellor of Justice monitors at least every two years the justification for not informing the person of his actions under the Order of the Defence Forces Act. The Commission supports the proposal, which sets out a list of measures the Defence Forces must inform the affected person immediately. There are also situations where the Defence Forces may not notify the person of the time and type of the operation provided for in this subsection. This is a necessary amendment to the law, which will contribute further to the security of Estonia. I therefore ask you to support the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U25	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I now request Andres Metsoja, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U26	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft under discussion is, to a lesser or greater extent, familiar to all of you from the past, as it is mostly the amendment to the Defence Forces Ordinance Act adopted by the previous Riigikogu on 20 February 2019, which was then numbered 783 SE. The same law without entry into force, with the number 783, was discussed by the current Riigikogu and adopted it in its unchanged form again on 29 May 2019. I will not go over what a good colleague has said again. You all probably remember, to a lesser or greater extent, how this decision was dealt with in the Supreme Court, because the President then used his opportunity to exercise constitutional supervision of this law. And indeed, all this law went fully into discussion at the time. To this end, it has been said that this process was correct and that this has enabled legal professionals to take the matter seriously apart in order to put it back together in this Chamber. It is a pleasure to note that, to a large extent, no contradiction was found. The main argument was how to inform persons who are subject to security surveillance and whether it is justified not to inform the person. If this is justified, here, in turn, is a court case. We have now discussed this issue several times in the Committee on National Defence this year. We started on the initiative of Alar Laneman, Chairman of the Special Committee on Supervision of the Security Authorities of the Riigikogu, because it was agreed that the Riigikogu would once again be the initiator of this draft law. And all parties have come along nicely with the bill. We have held meetings with representatives of the authorities and also held correspondence, until then, to discuss whether or not this is an urgent draft. It is very clear that the house is not on fire, but if Parliament considers it possible, it should move forward as quickly as possible. That's exactly what we're doing here. I would also like to mention that Margit Gross, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, has been invited to the committee and has given us explanations. It is also important to mention once again that this debate was initially excluded from the plenary agenda by the Council of Elders because, as you well remember, basically all the drafts were withdrawn from the agenda, although the proposal had already been made earlier. We have also been approached by the Chancellor of Justice, who raised a specific issue of bringing Article 29 of the Security Authorities Act into line with the Constitution. We have responded that we are also prepared to deal with the law of security authorities in parallel. The government has also explained this and has expressed its wish that, now that the first reading is completed, the Commission will certainly address these issues as well. Procedural decisions. At the meeting on 23 March of this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft. The National Defence Commission also decided by consensus to propose a deadline of 20 April at 10 a.m. for the submission of amendments. With this message, I'm finishing my report right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U27	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-07_U29	Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 152. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 20 April at 10 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Thank you. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 10.39 a.m.
