ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our weekly briefing. But before we get to it, I'm gonna give you an organizational statement. Today, we discussed in the Riigikogu's Assembly of Elders that if we were few in the hall, we could sit in dispersal. The faction, if there are a lot of people present, does not have to sit together, some can sit somewhere else, so that we are more dispersed. Today, unfortunately, our system does not yet allow this, but it will be introduced as a matter of urgency, the necessary changes will be made. So in the future, you can also sit elsewhere so that you don't have close contact with others. So let's start our three-day briefing. Checking for presence first. 20 members of the Riigikogu are present and no 81 members are present. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and Minister of Population Riina Solman. And as always, the members of the Riigikogu who register for this can first ask the question. They can also ask a more specific question, plus one more question from the floor. There are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to answer, as usual.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U2	The first question is asked by Kaja Kallas and answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In order to prevent the spread of the corona virus, the government has declared an emergency situation and imposed a number of restrictions with a very large social and economic impact. Please explain how the government assesses the effectiveness of the restrictions in stopping the spread of the virus. Are the current restrictions yielding results? In addition, on the basis of what data does the government decide to take further decisions to reduce, extend or increase restrictions altogether?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! First of all, I would like to thank the Riigikogu, the President of the Riigikogu, all the members of the body of elders, I think there has been a very good discussion and debate between the government and the Riigikogu. Thank you for that. I see that we are all taking this seriously and making an effort to return as soon as possible to the functioning of a normal, normal society. What are the three main objectives today? One thing is certainly to limit the rapid spread of the virus so that patients in the most difficult condition can be admitted to hospital care, so that the impact of the virus on workers, businesses is as low as possible, and we return to the functioning of a normal society as soon as possible as possible as a society. Yes, you rightly said that there really has been a state of emergency declared by law that the Government of the Republic has decided. What are we relying on? In general, we rely on the fact that the more we can do to protect the life and health of the people of Estonia, the better. At the same time, any decision, any limitation, of course, is also behind the assessment and debate, so that it hits the economy as little as possible. But as I said, the primary thing is the life and health of the Estonian people, the primary thing is that we can suppress the further spread of the virus and go back to the normal rhythm of life. Now, how does it work? You're asking who we're involving. We'll involve those who can be involved. All state agencies, all state agencies: it will definitely start with the Health Board, we will involve sub-offices of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of the Interior will always make its assessments. So everyone is involved, can't say one or the other less or more. We will definitely also involve business organisations, umbrella organisations. I know these meetings have been carried out by the Minister of Finance, and I have met them. There was also yesterday's meeting with the banking sector at lunchtime with the Minister of Finance. So I'm sure we'll include the business side. Today, we decided to include a third party, or civil society, more specifically. That's what Riina Solman got to do. So all social groups, as far as possible, are involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U5	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U6	Thank you. I didn't ask you anything about inclusion. I asked what data the government was making its decisions on. What data do you rely on, or on what methodology do you collect reliable data on? We know that there have been problems with testing, that not all are tested, and we know that the test bases have been changed. We know that the actual testing capability is very limited. Based on what data do you conclude that yes, now these restrictions and restrictions have worked, that these restrictions could be removed, or that these restrictions have not worked and should be added? Where do you get reliable information? What kind of data do you rely on?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U7	Thank you. I will stick to my answer: the main thing is the public sector. All agencies, including Health Board, Ministry of the Interior, hospitals, all public authorities provide information. That's what we're relying on. We will certainly look at the total number of tests every day, see how many people are infected every day, too, in terms of the number of tests that have been carried out. You could say that in the last few days, when more tests have been done, a little drink has gone down when we talk about how many people have been infected. Surely today cannot yet be said to be a tendency. Especially in a smaller society like Estonia, jumps and falls can occur very quickly. Now the testing you asked about and what has been up to in society as a topic. We have decided to order around 20,000 more tests through the private sector. We're talking about the next four to six weeks. On Friday, 20,000 new tests should reach Estonia in the order of magnitude, at the moment there are just over 10,000 tests in Estonia. We have already greatly increased the number of tests today. Our wish is that if there are no obstacles to the borders and, of course, there are obstacles to the borders, we know that by Friday the tests will reach Estonia, then we will increase their number by the end of the week. Whether they come to 700 a day, whether they come to 1,000, depends on how faster testing can be done in the private sector. In any case, here we want to see the result that the number of tests could be 1000 tests per day at the end of the week. But once again, I stress that this requires very many conditions to be met. This requires adequate personal protective equipment. That assumes that there are enough people. This assumes that there will be no supply difficulties. It's not the government's wish to run tests. We understand that universal transit, universal logistics, borders are closed, all of which worsens the prospects of getting personal protective equipment and also tests. But today's status, I can assure you in this briefing: yes, more than 10,000 tests are currently available. The COVID-19 commission of the Government of the Republic wants our reserve not to fall below 8,000 tests. The reserve must remain. We have to take into account that chronic patients, people at risk, people working at the forefront may need these tests at some point much more than today. So the reserve should have a minimum of 8,000 tests.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is certainly a difficult time, and it is extremely important that the messages that are sent to people are equally adequate. Maybe some questions wouldn't be so hot for the public if the messages were single. You just confirmed we have 10,000 tests, but we should keep at least 8,000 in stock. That means that until that moment, until we have no additional supply, we can only run 2,000 tests. The information is different: on the one hand, the Minister of Social Affairs says and you say that we want to test more. If it had been said at the outset that we have a reserve like this today, we can test until this moment, and not give people hope in vain, then maybe people would have taken it a little bit more slowly. We watched Hello this morning. There was an official there who said that we actually have to keep this margin so we can't test much right now. And if the minister says otherwise, of course, it's like a cacophony. But the effectiveness of the restrictions certainly, as you have even mentioned, is important. In the initial phase of the crisis, where we feel that there are a lot of resources in hand, some decisions may be too 'lopsakad', say in Estonian. One thing I do not understand right now is logistics and transport and borders. Do you not consider, both from an Estonian perspective and from a European perspective as a whole, that controlling the movement of this type of goods clearly aggravates the crisis and economic difficulties? We heard today that the order of commercial cars on the Polish-German border must be over 50 kilometres. This is definitely a sign that certain important goods may no longer reach Estonia at all. And that means that our supplies will decrease faster than we've planned. What have you done to ensure that international freight transport still works and that there are no obstacles to it? And what purpose does the personal control of commercial drivers now have?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U10	Thank you. What you're saying is absolutely right, I mean, first of all, these tests. The truth is that it is not a question of having no ability in laboratories today. And it is also not a question of political will to allow tests to be carried out on people. The problem is, as you said very rightly, that there is a need to keep a certain critical margin. If the spread is to increase and we do not get any tests in Estonia, it is essential to guarantee tests for certain people in any case: chronic patients, people at risk, especially older people, as well as frontier workers. And we also see that, in the context of emergency measures, the front line workers have come to: the Police and Border Guard Board, the Tax and Customs Board, the Defence League, certainly the medical sector. Thus, the risk of infection has automatically increased over time. Now for economic measures. You asked about the trucks. Yesterday, the European Council held a video conference. There most countries pointed out very clearly, very forcefully, that goods must be able to move. The goods must be able to move! This has also been Estonia's position all along. All these special measures, which are also made at our borders, be it our green border, be it our border with the Russian Federation, the goods must be able to move. What have we done? You rightly said that one of the problems has been Poland. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has dealt with this, I would say, extremely seriously, in order to find a solution to the Polish problem. This solution was promised, but this solution was not implemented. This morning, the Committee on the Fight against COVID-19 of the Government of the Republic reconvened. We decided, on the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, that the Star ship would most likely start departures tomorrow on the Paldiski-Sassnitz route for a month: one route each day, the other day, in order, above all, to ensure that freight transport from Estonia would reach Latvia, Lithuania and Poland by excluding land from Germany. This is one very concrete measure so that we can ensure the smoothest possible economic communication in such a difficult emergency. What else? Of course, all our external services, the foreign missions involved, are doing their utmost to ensure as much as possible reasonable trade.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U11	Indrek Saar, please! Prime Minister Jüri Ratas responds!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We understand that in any crisis, it is necessary to make clear who are the biggest risk groups in these crises. As far as health is concerned, it is now our knowledge that these are chronically ill persons and older people. It is likely that this crisis will also have a very significant impact on the economy, which we are already seeing, and the economy should also be identified, which is precisely the risk groups that are creating the most serious risk factors. If you follow the government's actions, you would like to ask: has it been agreed in the government what are the priority activities, which are primarily the government's activities? Some of the examples we have seen do not seem to confirm the existence of this agreement. Take, for example, the subject that Helmen Kütt has repeatedly spoken about. More than two weeks ago, it was mentioned that the primary elementary information could also go to people who do not follow online channels. It could go straight to the people's mailbox. This has not been done. How have those who provide vital services as sellers, bus drivers and kindergarten teachers been informed? How are they equipped with protective devices? How should those at home in self - quarantine behave if they do not know to this day whether or not they will receive sickness benefit in the future? The government could make urgent decisions. What are the priority actions that the government now considers necessary, above all, if not to deal with these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U13	Thank you, good questioner. I will try to answer these questions, which were five or six pieces, all very large and fundamental, as briefly as possible. The government has already fixed six headline targets at the beginning of this crisis. I stress what I already said to Kaja Kallas. These are certainly to limit the rapid spread of the virus so that as few patients in as difficult a condition as possible can be admitted to hospital care. Secondly, so that the impact of the virus on workers and businesses is as low as possible and that we return to the normal functioning of society as soon as possible. Now what Mrs. Helmen Hunter has been asking about. Yeah, I'm holding the same page here. I understand it's been in your heart, and bringing information to people is really important. The truth is that this leaflet has been completed. The information has always changed. Finally, it was decided that we would provide such general information, and about 600,000 mailboxes should be posted by 24 March at the latest. Now, what else has the government done in addition to this direct post? I remember when I appeared here in front of the Riigikogu, Mr Jaanson spoke sign language several times. We have tried as much as possible to convey all government messages with sign - language translation. In addition, we have gone to eesti.ee a long time ago to do what needs to be done. This information is constantly being updated. It is also true that a lot of false and false news has come to society. I have asked the people of Estonia and called on everyone to please trust the official information channels of the Government of the Republic. I would also like to say in answer to your question that I believe that private media, which have been a very good partner for the government, have also played a major role. The same flyer you asked about goes to the newspapers as I know it. Now, you asked what would happen to bus drivers, kindergarten teachers and teachers. The Health Board has provided guidance to employees in different sectors, for example in the service sector and to sellers. I know that some municipalities have completely banned the front door income in buses and have explained that this cannot be done precisely to protect the driver. You also asked what would happen to the people who were quarantined. My proposal can concern the whole economic package, hopefully I can come up with the Minister of Finance with it by noon tomorrow at the latest. Of course, the first three days of illness in today's situation should be reimbursed to everyone on the sick list. I mean the March, April and May period. But I insist, it's an exception. I don't think it would make sense to change the law right now and to introduce it into the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U14	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U15	Thank you for your answer. But I still didn't get the answer to why these things were dragging on. The problem of sickness benefits for people in self-quarantine has been in our society for a few weeks now. The opposition in the form of social democrats launched a draft in the Riigikogu last Thursday. The chairman of your political party's social committee put it to a vote with a proposal to vote it down on Monday. Yeah, on the second try, it started to be discussed. But it is also possible for the government to behave responsibly if the representatives of the government union do not allow these matters to be dealt with in the Riigikogu. Similarly, this information letter, which has now been gathered after two weeks of thinking, maybe three weeks later, will reach people's mailboxes. Why aren't these things moving? However, you will find time not just as an emergency manager, but as a field manager, to go through all the Estonian border crossing points. In my opinion, this is not the best example if we are talking about the need to reduce physical contacts in the current health crisis. Why hasn't the government found time for these things? Similarly, the question is that business organisations have referred to an idea that can be applied on a day-to-day basis and which the Tax and Customs Board has considered reasonable. It is an idea to stop demanding late payment from companies that have already been hit by the crisis. Instead, we are hearing interesting, but politically cynical discussions about implementing your coalition partners' election promises for the service of the crisis, which is to stop second pillar pension payments and lower excise duties. All the experts have said that it is not relevant at this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U16	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! I sincerely ask you: it would be good if, in this emergency situation, we can put as much of this policy aside as possible. But if you can't, I understand. I'll answer your questions. I think this information letter is of course important, but to debate this newsletter, this A4 for more than weeks, as I said, this post will take place. It should be in the mailboxes by Tuesday next week. It has not been the only medium issued by the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic, various agencies, ministries have sent out dozens of letters, dozens of instructions, dozens of e-mails, done as many as possible public appearances, press conferences. And the media have, in my opinion, carried them all very well. You're saying there's been a stretch. I believe that we all wish that we can beat this terrible virus more quickly, that we can return to the normal rhythm of life, the order of life. And I promise here before you that the Government of the Republic will work hard as a team to overcome this terrible virus. The special rhythm is still a commission created by the Government of the Republic, which was originally scheduled to meet three times a week, now it seems to me that it has started to gather twice a day and, of course, we are ready to gather even more. If you say I am not making enough effort, I will take your criticism very seriously. I promise I'll try harder than that. I'm sorry so far. But with your annoyance that I went to the border crossings, I disagree. It was my support to the police, it was my support to the medical staff, and it was definitely my support to the defence allies. I also wanted to see the situation at the port, the airport, Koidula, Luhamaa, Valga-1, Valga-3 and Ikla border crossing points. Now the sick days. As I told you, the economic package should come by noon tomorrow at the latest. This is what we are working for now, and we are doing everything we can to give the business sector a strong message for the first three days. Now the late payment, which you have mentioned, is something we have discussed. The final answers will come when the whole package is agreed. I think that all measures can be on the table, all economic measures, fiscal measures. We also have to take into account that there is certainly a budget gap, but there are some sectors that definitely need to be ensured. One of them is the payment of pensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U17	Thank you. Since Lauri Läänemets, who suspects that she has a corona virus, insisted that she be able to ask her question in Question Time, otherwise she would come to this hall, the body of elders found it reasonable if Indrek Saar asked the question. And I would ask Indrek Saarel now to ask this question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U18	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the body of elders for their very constructive attitude. We are in an emergency situation, and for members of the Riigikogu to be able to implement at least part of their mandate, this was now the best solution in an urgent way. I hope that, as a Riigikogu, we will increasingly be able to adapt to the situation and that we will have new electronic means to enable the opposition to continue to exercise parliamentary control over the activities of the government in this critical situation. Questions may occasionally be uncomfortable for the government, but they are certainly necessary for the balance of society and the best functioning of society. But now the question of Lauri West Forest. In yesterday's 'Actual Camera', the news was that other European Union countries are holding up medicines and protective equipment for Estonia. Have you, Prime Minister, been in contact with your European colleagues on this subject? And what measures do you intend to take to ensure that the supplies required for Estonia will still be here? And since I had a little time to ask a question, I would just like to comment that I thank the Prime Minister very much for the work he is doing, and also for noticing that he will recognise people for the work they are doing in critical situations. But we could still consult with experts before further physical contacts are made.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U19	Thank you. Yes, the head of the Health Board has really been that if possible, try not to shake hands. I think most of the contacts that came up on Saturday and you're complaining happened without a hand. And I still think those moves made sense. I agree with you that we need to consult as much as possible with the people involved in the profession, that answer is basically the same as I gave Mrs Kaja Kallas, who asked what we were relying on. The Government Committee also set up a working group at its first meeting. We asked Professor and Dr. Lutsari and other doctors and scientists to develop their vision and model what the effects of the corona virus could be in society in the near future. As far as I know, this work is already in its final phase, and as soon as possible, we will get that overview from these people. Now, Mr. Lauri to the West Forest, I certainly wish you with all my heart health and rapid recovery and self-preservation. He asked about the fact that personal protective equipment would not reach Estonia and wanted to know who I had been talking to on this subject. Or maybe the first question was, did I even talk to anyone? The answer is, yes, I've been communicating. The second question was who I've been talking to. Especially with the European Union's counterparts, perhaps most often with the Prime Minister of Poland, but if you take this video conference yesterday, which was already discussed, then more generally with all European Heads of State and Government and Heads of State. At my request, my office has also dealt with Turkey when it was known at one point that there were certain supply difficulties. The goal was to get things moving faster there. So this communication has been very intense. I want to bring out the Minister of Foreign Affairs here in front of the Riigikogu and really thank him. You might say that at some point, he's trying to get rid of some boundaries by manual control in a good way. It's just the situation, there's nothing weird about it. Of course, we need to communicate with our fellows and external partners so that goods move as quickly as possible. The current principle of better coordination, the mobility of goods, especially in the case of personal protection and other medical devices, does not really work in some places.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U20	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U21	Thank you. I have a question that the European Commission has offered 37 billion through the European Union Investment Fund, of which Estonia could immediately mobilise 295 million euros. What steps has the government taken to mobilise this money? And what will the money be used for?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U22	Thank you. Yes, it is true that the European Union's money can be used quickly to co-finance Estonia, as you said, 295 million. This contact comes mainly from the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Finance, which communicates with the European Commission. If you ask why this money is being used, there is a specific area for which it is being used. This is, after all, intended primarily to combat the COVID-19 virus and boost the economy. If you're asking me how exactly this $295 million is going to be divided, there's still work going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U23	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U24	Next question, number three. Asks Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U25	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! The press conferences of the members of the government are very close. Some even take place at the same time and there are such posts with letters and exclamation marks on the move. But it is a little worrying that the information that comes from them is sometimes contradictory. This certainly does not help much in these relatively nervous times. My first question concerns those who remain in quarantine and then compensation for that time. As the questions are detailed and numerous, I also sent them in advance so that you could prepare the answers. It's about people who stay in quarantine, but who don't have symptoms of the disease. Whether they stay at home to care for a child or older at school or in kindergarten, or for some other reason, simply by not wanting to contribute to the spread of the virus. And there are also those who have to stay away from work right now because they've just run out of orders. Will such people exceptionally be compensated for their time at home at this time of crisis on the basis of the so-called sick leave? And how long will this period last, how long will they be able to stay home? How is it technically organised? To whom a person must turn and how those who have previously had to leave unpaid leave should behave. If this measure finally comes, will they be able to redefine this forced leave in any way? Could you please give details to the people who are watching us right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U26	Thank you for your question. Certainly, as you said, this information is different at different moments. The reason is that all this information is changing very quickly. For example, I answered you on the subject of personal protective equipment and mentioned some numbers, and now new numbers have already come as to how many we have in Estonia. But I agree that today, as politicians, our role is to do everything we can to bring down tension and panic in society. There's no reason for that at the moment. I thank you for your understanding that you sent these questions forward. My answers are as follows. The Government of the Republic has strongly recommended that all those returning from a foreign country stay at home for 14 days and thus keep themselves and others safe. Here, an understanding and supportive attitude by employers is needed to protect both the individual worker and the rest of the collective. I know there are some private companies where people are quarantined when they come home, but they continue to be paid full wages, so they can work in their home office. The sick and care sheets can be taken by working people who are self-sick, nursing a sick child or a loved one. This is still the case for all diseases. It is also possible to take the sick list if a person has been exposed to the corona virus, but the symptoms of the disease have not yet occurred. The reimbursement of sickness and care sheets is in accordance with the disability benefit scheme. In the event of illness, the rate of compensation is 70%, of which four to eight. The employer pays for the day and then the sickness fund pays for the day. The State also plans to take further steps to pay compensation for the first days of sick leave under the temporary scheme for people on the disease site in relation to coronavir. I would add that, if we allow this distinction, as I said in reply to Mr Island, I do not think it is right to make a distinction as to why the sick list has been retained. This must be allowed for all those who have remained on the sick list during this period, then the talk will be 1. until the day. We have not decided this once and for all, we will try to reach a decision by noon tomorrow at the latest. The maximum duration of the disease sheet is 182 days, but at present it should be understood that at the time of onset of symptoms of corona or any other virus, a person must remain isolated for 14 days. This rule out the possibility of infecting other people. Due to the special situation that has developed in Estonia, people who are ill or who need a care sheet can open it on the patient portal digiluugu.ee themselves. You can still call your family doctor's centre to get a sick or care sheet, but it may be difficult to get contacts due to the sudden increase in the workload of family doctors.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U27	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, a specific question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U28	Thank you. Can you still specify whether this concerns those who already have symptoms or those who do not have symptoms but who remain in quarantine? As you mentioned in your reply, the identification of these symptoms is very important, but in turn testing is inevitably involved. When you answered one of the previous questions, you said that we have ordered 20,000 additional tests in Estonia, so I understood. At the same time, 600,000 posts have been ordered to inform the public. It gives an idea of the numbers that one or the other thing needs to be done so that it is either a cross-posting or a cross-test. I don't understand why we're ordering 20,000 more tests when the World Health Organization has recommended a non-spoken test. Isn't it like we're wrong about the size of this place? There's a big difference. If there is a need for the non-spoken test recommended by the World Health Organisation, then 20,000 obviously seem to be too little. Why are these numbers, could you please specify that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U29	Thank you. First of all, answer the first part of your question. Anyone who comes to Estonia must be in quarantine or isolation for two weeks, how exactly do we say, at home, anyway. It doesn't mean that all people can't work. I know that for a lot of people, the employer offers a home office opportunity. I know cases where an employer says he doesn't change his salary because a person can do his job at home. There are people who do manual work, including in the medical sector, for example, in various laboratories. They can also do this work at home, prepare certain models, such as dental technicians. But, of course, there are also those who are not given homework. And then, really, if a person has symptoms, he can apply for the sick list. I believe that, if we make such a distinction compared to the current legislation, this should not only concern coronavir, but should apply to all diseases. Now, the other half of your question concerning testing. In particular, this issue of the leaflet changes, it seems to me, the main question of today's Question Time, but it has really been a major concern of Helmen Hunt and Indrek Saare. And I'm glad it's settled now. I remember that when I was here in front of the Riigikogu on Thursday, very many members of the Riigikogu asked why there was no testing. There are specific symptoms, or symptoms, but they are not tested. The reason was very simple: not because we do not want to do testing, but because we simply did not have enough tests. The tests were beyond the border, the tests were further away from Estonia. Now, just so we don't get this messed up in these numbers, I'm going to go over it again. There are just over 10,000 tests in Estonia. With this knowledge, there are 20,000 tests in Estonia in addition to the 10,000 today, which is constantly decreasing. In addition to this, 20,000 more tests have been ordered, the country has asked to bring them to Estonia. I know that some private companies in the medical field are working to order more tests, but there are no specific data on this. Then why is it being tested? It's true that there's a lot of murmuring, that if a person has a symptom of a cough, it's a fever, it's a headache, and he says I want to take a test, they say that you can't take that test today. The reason is that, on the one hand, there are no tests, on the other hand, it is very difficult to arrange for an ambulance to go anywhere. That makes no sense in the current situation either. New opportunities need to be created. These rapid testing opportunities must be created in public space, so we can offer them to people, but we can provide them with the best possible protection against infection.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U30	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U31	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! There are two sides to my question, and I will continue with the question of Keit Pentus-Rosimine. I guess we didn't get a pretty good answer to that. If someone stays in quarantine at home without symptoms, will they also be compensated for the loss of pay? The other half of the question concerns testing, which seems to be becoming more and more topical in Estonia. The WHO Director-General stated in a widespread recommendation that countries should be able to test all people suspected of corona virus. Test, test, test! But there have been a lot of conflicting messages about testing. At first, it was said that almost anyone could test it. On 9 March, Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik also told the members of the European Union Affairs Committee that he could be tested. They said they couldn't all be tested, but they're gonna be paid for tests. Then they said no one was being tested, except for hospitalized patients. Not even those who have serious symptoms of Mart Kadastik's story in Eesti Ekspress describe it well. And yesterday, Tanel Kiik again announced that someone would still be tested, not in hundreds, but in thousands, in response to public expectations and WHO recommendation. People with weaker symptoms are also being tested. At a later date, the Health Board of Delfis again stated that in view of the increasing spread of the virus, testing of patients with milder signs of viral disease is no longer appropriate. I have to apologize. You asked for the policy aside, and I will, but I would say that, in terms of leadership, the situation seems rather chaotic and does not create trust in either the state or the government. Kuressaare Hospital's idea of mass testing on a drive-in basis was put by the Health Board. I have a question for you. Extensive testing gives people the opportunity to make wise choices. What does the government do to enable people to be tested extensively?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U32	Thank you. First of all, when it comes to testing, I say once again that the limits that have been in Estonian society in terms of testing have not been any, I do not know, ideological. Behind them is not the desire not to test. The problem has been that we do not have enough tests in Estonia. The problem is that we have not been able to move these tests due to obstacles to international freight transport. Everyone wants these tests. The test deficit is wider than in Estonia alone. Today, however, through certain channels, things have been improved. The tests should arrive on Friday. We still need to be guided by the principle that, in any case, we must first keep a certain margin, a certain minimum margin. Today we see that the minimum margin is about 8,000 tests. We've been increasing the number of tests all the time at the beginning of the day, maybe 10 to 20 tests, then there were 50 or 100 tests, and in the last few days they're already doing 300 tests a day. As I said, this capacity should increase in the next few days, if the supply chains allow it, to about 1,000 tests a day. At the same time, we have to consider that someone has to do these tests. At first, when there were fewer tests, it was an ambulance driving home. It is clear that in the current state, when the spread has grown in Estonia, it is not reasonable. There isn't that capability today, and the ambulance has a lot of other jobs, they can't just run corona virus tests. I think that the method that was used in Saaremaa was also tested in the public space using the so-called drive-in method, it makes sense. And I know that it is planned to be implemented in many parts of Estonia, when this delivery of these 20000 tests will reach Estonia. It's supposed to be on Friday. But once again, delivery is in a difficult state. I hope this delivery doesn't get stuck. As far as testing is concerned, if this reserve is left aside, we will certainly be the first to rely on the fact that the test is needed by a chronically ill, elderly person and, let's say, by a corona virus carrier. We certainly prefer people on the front line. Like I said, police, medical agencies, the Tax and Customs Board, the Defence League. And these people have now gained much more because border crossing is restricted. But, of course, we also reach out to people who really have symptoms. Those people who have symptoms must be able to take the test.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U33	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U34	Next, Jevgeni Ossinovski asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U35	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! I think that, in the current situation, the opposition has acted very responsibly and that it is not, in my opinion, very right to blame for the fact that there has been some form of excessive attack. On the one hand, it is clear that we must look together for solutions, on the other hand, it is also understandable that mistakes are being made in the current situation. This is an emergency situation and governance errors may not only be committed at political level, but also by the authorities. It is very important that we be able to talk openly about these mistakes, correct them and move forward together. Consequently, I believe that critical issues are also relevant. I think that the most critical issue at this stage is the same issue of testing. I'll try to open it again, from another angle. Indeed, the Health Board has essentially sought to justify why it is not tested, arguing that hospitalization is generally independent of whether a person is viral positive or negative. But if we look more broadly at the opinion of those specialists who appreciate the epidemiological situation in society, it is actually essential to extend the testing. And for two reasons. Firstly, because then people are more likely to adhere to the rules of isolation, it is obvious. Secondly, it is very important that we actually only get an objective picture of what we have with the infection. If we're doing 1,000 tests a week now, 1,000 tests a day is what we should do. The question is that we really can't do that because we don't have jets, a reagent. Why has the government not admitted that yes, the situation is that there is simply no reagent. We're not really capable of testing a broad population with these 20,000 tests either, because there's just no reagent. There's a little bit of it in Synlab, and that's it. And we will continue to be able to test only those at the forefront and the risk groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U36	Thank you. I fully understand the desire for more extensive testing. I think this is right, it is justified, and it has also been the wish of the Government Commission to have more tests done. As you say, maybe the health sector sees it a little differently. But the reason has really been that every step of testing has been deficient. Since, I don't know, about personal protective equipment and the ability of an ambulance, and ending up with the fact that there are no real tests in Estonia, as I have said many times. The objective you have said that we could take a thousand tests a day, as I said, that's the direction we've taken. I hope we can achieve this in the coming days, but there are so many buts here to say today that there are 1,000 tests or 700 tests on Saturday and there are 800 tests on Sunday, and the next Monday is 1,000 tests, however, it should be taken into account that this is not only related to the fact that the necessary substances exist or tests exist or personal protective equipment exists. They all have to be there. At the same time, we are now able to conduct a thousand tests a day. It is also much expanded: tests are no longer performed by the Health Board, but are carried out in five-six places in Estonia. That ability is there today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U37	Evgeny Ossinovski, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U38	Yeah, exactly: other questions are more or less cool-- we have health professionals, we have laboratories and equipment to run these tests, but there is no reagent. There is no reagent in public hospitals so that these tests can actually be performed outside the hospital. PERH is already ordering his ambulance tests from Synlab, because they simply don't have it and from the state reserve the Health Board doesn't issue it to them. This is a real situation. If we assume we're going to have 20,000 tests on the reagent, then until the end of April, we'll still be able to test only front-line personnel and risk groups. We cannot actually test a broad population with this Friday's delivery, and I think it is fair to say that this is the case: we cannot get it anywhere. As a first priority, the Government of the Republic, together with the authorities, should actually deal with getting an agent to Estonia. This is, in my opinion, much more priority than deciding on some sort of economic mitigation measures this week, which are also important, of course, but we are talking now about the key issue: whether or not we have a normalisation of the epidemiological situation. Now the question. For me, it is not a question of who is to blame, etc. The question is that if a mistake has been made and a mistake has been made, we have not stocked up the reagent in time, Synlab's stock, the Estonian state institutions have not stocked up, then we must admit that this is the situation we are in today, we will try to solve it together. The second question concerns the number of people who are actually infected in Estonia, according to national authorities. In different countries, depending on the epidemiological situation and testing, the actual cases in the initial phase of the epidemic that we currently have may be 5 to 30 times more infected than the confirmed cases. And therefore, I ask: what is the assessment of the Health Board, how many really infected people in Estonia could be, given whatever confidence limits? The Health Board has indicated that there are more, and I am sure that there are also specific calculations. These data are required to be disclosed by the State as they are data on risks to human life and health in accordance with § 28 of the Public Information Act. How many people are actually infected in Estonia today, according to the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U39	Thank you for this question. First of all, the first part of this, which concerned your previous question. I also agree, of course, that resources must be shared when the private sector has a certain capacity to test and the state does not. I don't know, you said Perh didn't, but I've never heard of a problem sharing different private and public resources. I know this, and the Minister for Social Affairs has also confirmed that there is enough of this substance in the country and supplies are on their way. That's what I can tell you right now in this briefing. Of course, the idea of sharing resources, as you said, is reasonable. And I have not felt that this problem exists between the private and public sectors. If you take this morning's state, how many tests have been taken together, and how many people are infected, this is this morning: the 2020 test and the positive are 258. We know it's the first healer. I understand that your question is, what is the assessment of how many really infected people are? The official number is 258, but what is this number really? As I said here in an earlier response, we have wanted to involve experts in the government committee from the very beginning. They are involved, they have started working with professors and doctors. As soon as they come up with their forecast, we'll definitely make it public. There's no way it's gonna stay behind closed doors. So let's wait. The earlier questioners also had a heart for whether there was sufficient involvement of people in the field. Yeah, they're involved. Let's wait for their input, wait for what their opinion is about the same questions you asked. Then we can come out with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U40	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The issues that the public has, as well as in this Chamber, concern specific measures and their effectiveness and resource use. They must be extremely important. When you think about border checks and health checks, one thing that actually came out of the previous question is that we should protect frontier workers. If we unnecessarily send people to the front line that we really need to protect and increase their risk, then it could have a double negative impact on maintaining the whole system. But one special measure, which you will probably be ready to make public tomorrow afternoon, concerns different economic packages. When I listened to the interview by Finance Minister Martin Helme, he said very emphatically that it was time to let the state budget down. I didn't understand that sentence very well. As far as I can remember, both the current and the previous government have let down the state budget several years ago. When I listened today to the interview of the head of the unemployment fund on morning television, he said that about 70% of the income is intended to be paid to workers who are in difficulty. If I understand correctly, it's mostly because of the corona virus. But the one thing that caught my eye at that was that it didn't apply to the self-employed. I don't want to go into legal discussion, but it raises questions. Small businesses are already in a very difficult situation due to this crisis. How, then, are they to be helped so that they too can continue to manage and not lose their income?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U42	Thank you very much for this question. First of all, it's a downfall on the state budget, as you pointed out. In cooperation with the Minister of Finance, a very serious economic package is currently being agreed, and this is the final phase. And I am thinking not only of an agreement within the government, but also of an agreement with different business sectors. There have been a lot of meetings on this subject, let's say, four or five days. We have received input from business organisations, umbrella organisations, we have received input from the banking sector, and very many companies and organisations have addressed us directly. So much from the budget that I think it is understandable that the budget forecasts no longer apply. The next forecast, on which we will start putting together the country's budget strategy, comes from the Ministry of Finance in early April. That's what we're working on right now. But it is clear that, of course, tax receipts fall in emergency situations, and very many sectors of the economy have been hit. Now, as far as the unemployment fund is concerned, yesterday there were two meetings of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, today we will continue at 3:30. They're trying to find an agreement. I've been in constant contact with the Chairman of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Minister of Social Affairs. My sense is that both employers, trade unions and the state actually want to find this agreement. We're trying to make it happen as soon as possible. The question is, of course, to what extent this agreement on the unemployment fund could have an impact or to whom it could provide assistance. It's up to the unemployment fund and he's proposing it to the Government of the Republic. We'll confirm it or not. My sense of feeling is that it gets very complicated to bring out the sectors. So it should be meant for the whole labour market, there are hits in every sector. If you are asking about self-employed people, yes, there should be more than 22000 self-employed people in Estonia, and we are currently drawing up separate support measures and an economic package. We also want to come up with this as soon as possible. So the self-employed are in focus, so I can assure you. There's work going on for the self-employed too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U43	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U44	Next, Ants Laaneots asks and answers Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U45	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of Defense! First of all, yesterday morning, the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, Elmar Vaher, very much praised the Defence League's support for police and border guards to ensure compliance with and order of emergency requirements. I'm sure that's commendable. But I'm going to ask you another question. Last Monday, the U.S. Armed Forces' European Command announced that, as of 13 March 2020, the deployment of soldiers and military equipment from the US to Europe has been suspended due to the outbreak of the Corona virus. This obviously means for us to cancel or postpone all exercises in Europe with the US planned this year. These are the largest exercise in over 25 years, with 37000 men participating in Defender Europe 2020, the planned joint exercise in the Baltic States, Saber Strike and three smaller exercises: Dynamic Front, Joint Warfighting Assessment and Swift Response. My question: what is the latest information on these exercises? And how, and to what extent are the Ministry of Defence and our Defence Headquarters planning to conduct the annual Spring Storm exercise of the Defence Forces and the Defence League in May this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U46	Thank you for that question. As regards the activities of the Defence League, I fully join in your thanks to the Defence League, which has indeed taken on an important role in a situation where the Police and Border Guard Board needs support. The Government of the Republic has currently authorised 150 defence allies to be used daily under coercion. The President of the Republic has also provided support for this decision. We used the same method, for example, during President Obama's presence here and during the Presidency of the European Union. I really welcome the men and women who volunteer to do this job. As far as the Defender lesson is concerned, indeed, we are all very sorry that this exercise is taking place on a very limited scale according to current data. This means that, according to current data, I'm putting it down, it's likely that some exercise-related activities will take place in Poland and Germany, where the US bases are located, but all other activities have been omitted. As far as this exercise is concerned, training has actually been going on for a long time, so in some ways we have learned a number of very important lessons related to this exercise. And there has been military technology and bringing men to Europe. So it can be said that certain aspects of this exercise have already taught us important lessons, but indeed, as far as the Baltic countries are concerned, there is currently evidence that these activities are not being carried out. That, of course, is a shame. As for Estonia's lesson in the Spring Storm, we do not want to cancel it. After all, our geopolitical position has not changed. Our opponent has not changed, and he must see that, even in a crisis situation, we are able to act. The exercise will be conducted on a limited scale and with the forces currently at our disposal. The reserve will not be called, will remain in existing practice fields and will not be moved beyond the terrain.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U47	Thank you. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U48	Thank you. There was also talk about the border and that the defence resources have indeed been implemented at our borders. I'm asking you how reasonable you think it is at this point in time to close the border. If we know that the main outbreaks are inside the country, is it reasonable to close the border with Latvia, where there are considerably fewer infectious diseases? At the same time, the Prime Minister has repeatedly said here that deliveries are a problem, both with protective equipment, food and medicines, which are stuck at the border. At the same time, we are implementing a very large resource, both of the Police and Border Guard Board's own and the Defence Leagues at the border to fill out paper forms. Is that reasonable and how long will it last like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U49	I supported that decision. Of course, none of these decisions come easily, but given that the movement of the virus across borders has nevertheless been a very significant factor, not only in Estonia, but also in a massive majority of the countries in the region since Finland, and I am not talking about Denmark, which is taking extraordinarily radical measures, I believe that a temporary restriction such as freight cars can pass is feasible. As far as these forms are concerned, this morning the government committee sat together and we decided to abandon the policy of the forms. As you say, this is no longer necessary for the current new solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U50	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U51	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Defense! I'd come back to that first answer you said. I would like to ask for a slightly broader description of the current situation regarding the functioning of NATO's deterrence capacity. As you rightly mentioned, the geopolitical situation and the general security situation persist despite the spread of the corona virus. And we have great importance, as you rightly mentioned, in the form of our Defence Forces operations to demonstrate the existence and persistence of deterrence. But I'm asking you to explain a little bit about these missed or changed lessons about NATO's current capacity as an organisation. We know that European Union ministers hold video conferences. How is the work currently being organised at NATO level so that we can be sure that deterrence is also normal at decision-making level?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U52	Indeed, NATO has the same limitations as certain meetings, strangers cannot enter buildings etc., etc. But, of course, NATO's basic structure is working, and NATO also has all the military capabilities that it has so far. The fact that there is no one specific lesson does not, of course, mean that these troops will not be at our disposal if anything should happen. And the best example is perhaps what is happening in Estonia: both the British battalion and the Danish company are here, on the base. They don't have any plans to leave. In the same way, air security works on a perfectly regular basis, now using Poles and from 1 May already by French teams. The decisions taken in relation to border crossing have also drawn up certain derogations concerning the movement of allied units. Of course, we must ensure that the activities of the allies here in Estonia are carried out without major obstacles and in accordance with the agreed arrangements.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U53	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U54	Next, Katri Raik asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U55	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! For the people of Estonia, Estonia starts with its own home, its own local government. It is important to people how government decisions are implemented on the ground and what additional measures are taken by local authorities in a crisis or emergency situation. For example, people in Narva today worry that those children whose only warm meal apparently was in school how they could eat. Tallinn, Tartu, Rakvere, for example, has already solved this issue. This is just one example. My question is, how do you now assess how local authorities have coped with an emergency situation? Which measures are most effective in your opinion? And perhaps also, what are the recommendations to local authorities in the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U56	Thank you. I come to the first part of the question where you spoke of warm food. I think it's very important, too. Unfortunately, in our real life, for many children, school food is the only warm meal a day. And this is not only the case for many children in remote settlements, but also here in Tallinn. I also know specific cases: the leaders of schools in downtown Tallinn have said that the parents have turned to them with concern that the missed school food was the only warm meal a day for the child. In my opinion, in the current emergency situation, local authorities have been very face-to-face towards the people, towards their inhabitants, trying to help as much as possible. You gave some examples of cities that have started to provide warm food themselves. I hope there will be more and more of these local authorities. I have also signed an order pursuant to § 25 (2) of the Emergency Act to appoint the heads of emergency work in the northern region, the southern region, the western region and the eastern region of the Rescue Board, who will also have to mediate this dialogue between the central government and local authorities. Now, when you ask what the measures that have been taken by local authorities have been the result of what the Government of the Republic has decided on by the head of emergency. We are starting from the most important point of view of the education sector, the closure of schools. At the same time, we have said that special needs children's educational institutions and, for example, kindergartens, must be decided on a case-by-case basis. For kindergartens, this is the decision of day care providers. I know that, for example, in the internal security sector, but also in the economic and trade sector, it is asked, whenever possible, to keep kindergartens open, because people can then take their children to kindergarten and head to the post themselves, as a rescue officer, as a policeman, as a trade-man, it is a person working in an emergency station. Certain local authorities have approached me with a request that we introduce limited access. In particular, it relates to the islands of Estonia and the smaller islands. And this morning, there was another local government visit to the committee. It came from the municipality of Mulgi in order to have the right to better solve employees' cross-border movements between Latvia and Estonia, as is the case in Valga and Valka. That's the difference we made.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U57	Thank you. Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U58	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I am pleased to give you the greetings of many of the older ladies of Ida-Virumaa: 'Beregite sebja! ' 'Hold Yourself! " It was a Russian request to you that you take care of yourselves. But my concern is to inform the Russian-speaking population. It is true that local Russian journalists are grateful that there is a good amount of information coming from the government. At the same time, we know that 30% of our population is Russian-speaking, and essentially one in three Estonian-speaking information rooms cannot be tracked. The situation is different. Narva reached the purchasing panic day after day, and the items bought at the store were somewhat different. Since there was no information from Russia that the corona virus had reached the region of Leningrad, it was thought that the people of Narva were not concerned. Today, too, people are rather concerned about how to manage economically, not so much about health. These are the real facts about the life of Ida-Viru County. What else do you think we can do for the Russian people, the people who are not on the Internet? I think there are more of them among older people in Russian. What can we do better together to inform these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U59	Thank you for that good word, and be sure to welcome these people back if you meet them. I think that the general principle for all Estonian people is that at the moment, and I have also said this out of this speech chair in the Riigikogu, that the most important thing today is the health of our people, the lives of our people. This is priority number one, and that is certainly what the government and the government committee are about. Everything else is also important, but people's lives and health are most important. And the steps you are asking about here have been taken primarily with this consideration to ensure people's lives, to ensure the health of people as good as possible and to ensure that this virus breaks in society as quickly as possible, and also to stop. Now, the Russian-speaking population of the population is a very serious issue and a very legitimate issue. What else can we do? I also ask the members of the Riigikogu, if possible, to provide any information you have with many followers, you also have many supporters on your social media. True, as you say, not everyone reads social media, not everyone is online. In addition, we have asked that as many publications as local governments have in both Estonian and Russian are not very many of them, too, to pass on this information. I would like to pay tribute once again to the private media, as much as we have on-line. Once again, I must point out that we do not have many Russian-language newspapers on paper in Estonia, and they only arrive on the table of subscribers after a few days, and there are quite a few of them. What else can we do? The members of your group have stressed that this information has been sent directly on several occasions. I think it's important, that's what we do. We're trying to use every channel we can. The local authorities are certainly very, very important partners here. And there is no way I can get over or around the largest Russian-speaking community of the information distributor here in Estonia, which I think is Radio 4, who is really doing a very grateful job. We can also say that whether these viewers are one or 100 or 10000, it does not matter, but ETV+ has also made great efforts to inform the Russian-speaking population. All of this has been facilitated by very good communication between our communication office and national broadcasting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U60	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'm glad to hear you congratulate the local authorities. I also think that local governments have done a good job and at this level of everyday communication, I understand, the exchange of information is ongoing and everything is doing its best. But my question is whether the government has also discussed support for local governments in the longer term. I understand that in the time of crisis, perhaps nothing concrete can be said yet, but I will give you a few examples. If we lose jobs, income tax will also fall. It is clear to the local authorities that in a few months or six months the income base will be significantly lower. Second example: kindergartens. Kindergartens we keep open, some teachers have gone home. Clearly, no one is going to lay off teachers, 100% pay is guaranteed, but if children cannot go to kindergarten, the parents will also have to be exempted from the day care allowance, which means that the local government's income base will be reduced again. At the same time, local authorities need to make substantial investments. If there is a feeling that the money will fall, the investments will be postponed or planned to be cancelled, which would be bad for the economy to cool even more. In fact, perhaps it would be wise to maintain these investments. Has the government been discussing, and can the Prime Minister today give any message that the state will come to the aid of, for example, a tax gap or the same kindergarten issue? Or will the State allow any very favourable, zero interest loan to continue its investment? These ideas are one way or another, and the question is whether you have already been able to deal with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U62	Thank you. Of course I've been able to deal with it. First, the tax base. When you talk about personal income tax, I believe that you do not have to be a very wise fortune teller to say that the tax base is also falling on the central government. The revenue of the state budget also shrinks , it is VAT, it is income tax and so on. I know that there are some sectors in this crisis that showed very high turnover in the first days of the crisis. I am thinking of a certain trade sector, particularly the sale of foodstuffs, but it was, of course, because people were afraid that something very bad would happen tomorrow. I think this panic has returned very clearly to society. I would like to thank all the members of the Riigikogu who have given balanced messages to you. Thank you. This morning we received an overview of the state's food supply from the Minister for Rural Affairs. He confirmed that both the state's food supply and the contractual food supply for one month have a beautiful existence and there is no cause for panic. Now, what have been the ongoing support mechanisms for helping local authorities? They have mainly been of a medical nature: various personal protective equipment, tests, as well as medical care. There has been very close cooperation with local authorities. There are indeed different constraints that the municipalities have wanted, and there are also certain differences that we have already been able to begin to do. One was the same example of Valga-Valka, the other was the example of Mulgi municipality this morning. I know there's a request inside to make the same distinction from the mayor of Võru. We're trying to count them all. If you are asking whether we are going to do more specifically to invest in the public sector in any way, then the economic package that we are developing should certainly also include that more public orders should also be given in the recession, including support for investments that will help to maintain jobs and prevent the rise in unemployment as much as possible. I'm sure it'll come. I think that one important step in support of local authorities is the measures of the unemployment fund, which we are trying to agree as soon as possible. This means that people do not stop working contracts, but when people go home temporarily, it is a week, a month or two, then their income is guaranteed. In fact, there is a chance for the company to get back on its feet and then move on. For kindergartens, the state has been paying some support for increasing the pay of kindergarten teachers for years. So in any case, further support for local governments is important to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U63	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U64	Next, Signe Kivi asks and answers the Minister of Population Riina Solman. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U65	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister, The special situation in the provision of obstetrics is the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs, but I am sure that the Minister of Population is aware of the problems and can provide additional information to everyone. Indeed, we acknowledge that hospitals have informed the public that midwives from all over Estonia are contacting all pregnant women, that there is a separate line for those who give birth to coronavir and that they are being sent an ambulance free of charge. And we also know that, unfortunately, yes, but it is true that family births are forbidden. That is my question: are these measures sufficient to ensure the safety of births, newborns and medical staff? It is known that problems have already arisen with the supply of medical supplies and personal protective equipment. And the other half of the question. In Estonia, maternity departments are closed. Can families living beyond the centers be sure that the ambulance will reach them in time in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U66	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Signe Stone! A very important issue in this difficult time, even the most vulnerable target groups, must certainly be kept during the crisis. Indeed, as you said, births will still be received and, if anyone doubts, I can assure you that, of course, this is the same for those who are infected. However, the presence of support persons and close visitors in various hospitals across Estonia is indeed prohibited. Is this a proportionate measure? I tend to think that our medics, hospitals are best placed to decide this, and they have introduced this measure themselves. Should it be reviewed as a universal one? On this issue, I have also sent a letter to Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige, to get an overview of the situation with obstetrics outside Tallinn. We see that our major maternity hospitals share information very correctly. And as you said, pregnant women across Estonia are being monitored, their health is being maintained and they are being advised. What else can I say about that? From yesterday, families in a pregnancy crisis receive free and without a referral advice from the phone and Skype via SA Appreciating Life or SAVE to compensate for the closure of the contact counselling provided in the maternity homes due to the virus risk. It's an open service at the request of hospitals. The number of the counselling service is 8002008, is advised in Estonian, Russian and English on the Skype mode, as I said, and this information can be looked up more closely on the website of www.resedus.ee. Maternity Crisis Advisors From the Foundation Appreciating Life has itself said that in a crisis where family births and hospital visits are temporarily banned, people are anxious and the need for counselling has grown exponentially on these routes as well. Therefore, further attention and monitoring of whether the measures are proportionate or could be more significant should be re-examined. As regards the question of whether the closure of the departments has been premature, in this I support and consider the decisions of my colleague, Mr Kiike, who has taken these decisions as leader in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U67	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I just want to ask you one thing. When a message was sent to the public that no supporters could be taken, at the same time there were interviews at the ERR where some hospitals said they could take them. Tell me where the logic is here regardless of whether it's right or wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U69	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Member of the Riigikogu Urmas Kruuse! The logic is that this has been an autonomous decision of hospitals so far. And, as I said before in reply to Mrs Signe Kivi, whether to make a universal decision on this issue, we will discuss it separately with the Minister for Social Affairs. If necessary, this universal decision shall be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U70	On this point... There were questions, Marko Mihkelson, please! Or the next one? Great! I will stop dealing with this issue and next, I will ask you a question... Is something messed up? [[They say something in the hall.]] No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U71	The next question will be asked by Helmen Kütt and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U72	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! First of all, I would very much like to thank and congratulate the government's crisis committee for its work in order for members of the Riigikogu to receive regular information. And it's nice that this information will also move on to those who don't have Skype or any other means to contact them on the way to the TV bridge. Instead, I have a question about this. Yesterday was International Social Work Day. And in fact, local social workers are now, you can say, on the front line. Just as there are people on borders who guarantee border control. A social worker is very often the one who ensures safety, subsistence, food and everything for the elderly and others in need. Has the government discussed, or have the municipalities approached you with the concern that these very people working on the front line need the most basic protection, masks and gloves? It should be taken into account that one opening worker goes to different homes, to different elderly people, and sometimes goes to a shop to buy food. Has this matter been addressed to you, or has it been left purely to the municipal authorities themselves? And once again, a lot of strength for the people who do this job, that is, for the social workers!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U73	Thank you very much, Mrs Helmen Kütt, and thank you for your good words. But I will bounce the ball back in a good way: thank you also for your contribution to the Riigikogu! As I said on Thursday, I am still of the opinion that if we work together for weeks or months, no one really knows, then we will overcome this mad virus. I would also like to say that when Mr Ossinovski asked about various options and instruments in the private and public sectors, this cooperation is also moving quite well within the public sector. For example, we lacked personal protection and had a great request to the Defence Forces, perhaps they could help. The Defence Forces and the Secretary of Defense came very quickly to meet us. This is particularly the case with facial masks. Yes, the needs of the local authorities' personal protective equipment have been summarised. At the moment, you need 200,000 masks, 40,000 pairs of gloves, 5,000 protective suits, 55,000 respirators, 3,500 litres of disinfectants, 2200 sets of goggles, also plastic and other footwear covers. So it's all summed up. The current state of personal protective equipment has also been mapped. I have it for the country as a whole. The last situation was mapped a few days ago, March 11th. But like I said when I said, these numbers actually change all the time. Today, at noon on March 18th, the situation is not what it was this morning. So it's all mapped out. There's a lot of cooperation. I know that the Minister of Public Administration has come to help, for example, find a producer of disinfectants. It seems that this issue will be resolved in the coming days.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U74	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U75	Thank you very much. This is about the emergency situation. We've been in an emergency since 12 March. And we really all, regardless of the seat and the point of view or the position, are in this situation. You said that the economic package would come to the table tomorrow, probably at lunchtime. The public should be delighted with the information that the self-employed are included. Excellent! Because the unemployment fund does not really come into contact with the self-employed person until the self-employed person ceases to do so. But the selfe must pay himself for the first three days when he is a company of one man, and at his own expense, the next up to seven days must also be the one who has to pay the sick pay. And only then are the measures likely to come into application. It's a good thing it's taken into account. Question: Will these planned measures, guaranteeing 70% of income, apply from 12 March, or will they apply from the day we discovered the first infected person? At what point do they apply to make it clear to people? And if there is no clarity yet, is there any hope that it will come? That's the answer. But now from the clear messages: I don't think it's a very good idea when the public media say we're gonna end the campaign 'Everybody blows'. That's not a smart message. If it is needed in police work and it is decided that it will not be dealt with, then it does not need to be preached widely on television screens. Or it is also understood that those people who come to Estonia, who are currently stuck at borders in Poland and somewhere else, that if they remain quarantined in Estonia, they can still shop. Well, you shouldn't say that. If there is a quarantine, there is a quarantine, and the shop is either close or the helpers go through the Social Insurance Board. Messages could be clear, so everyone understands them the same way, or else it is that one result leads to another. Also, when not all have to blow and drunkenness is not controlled, believe, this will lead to an increase in domestic violence. But now, March 12th.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U76	Thank you. I will answer the question whether, for example, on 18 March, it is possible for a person to be sitting down, I hope that no one will drive while drinking alcohol and then drive somewhere, knowing that the police will not control him. The answer is: it is not possible. The police will continue their daily work, continue their checks. Yesterday, too, the Minister of the Interior said that I'm sure the police will keep monitoring traffic, carry out these checks. So there is no message that this method of verification has somehow been omitted. It's not like that. Yes, as I said, we are serious about how to support self-employed people. We are trying to do everything we can to ensure that this group of people, this group of entrepreneurs, is involved in this economic package. Now your question about the unemployment fund is how this so-called 70% pay will be paid, which is the minimum rates, which are the maximum rates. I think it all needs to be seriously discussed. But here we are, neither I nor you are members of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. This must be decided by the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. However, if you ask what this period might be, whether it will start on 12 March or the day we had the first infected, or at any other point, then I think that the implementation of these measures should, however, be somehow limited to months. Many people already have this concern in March, but we see today that this concern is very likely to pass on to April and perhaps to the next month. I think it should be limited in, for example, a few months. The question of the day on which it exactly starts is that if it is possible for the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund to agree that there is, for example, March in it, then I personally very much support it. But let's wait for their proposal. I think that the most difficult time is certainly March, April and May, and for this period, we must expect this solution. All in all, this is their proposal to the Government of the Republic and, after that, we can make these decisions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U77	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I, too, have a question of emergency action, but of action to ensure the state's financial capacity. Eesti Pank has recommended issuing long-term bonds, while the Minister of Finance is in a hurry to make a short-term bond issue. I have a question about the financial situation of Estonia at the moment. As of 15 March, EUR 1.5 billion has been deposited with the Treasury by the unemployment fund, the sickness fund and other foundations, including a huge reserve of 900 million. Of this 1.5 billion, as of March 15, there are only EUR 582 million, or less than half of the money deposited by the sickness fund, the unemployment fund and others. Of course, the balance of the Treasury is fluctuating, but it is not possible to predict that this balance will start to grow, as companies are postponing their tax payments and there is also a return on personal income tax. That is why I am asking whether the rushing of the Minister of Finance by issuing a short-term bond is due to the fact that the money that the unemployment fund is entitled to is not in full with the Treasury. Are you confirming or rejecting the claim that less than half of the funds deposited with the Treasury by the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund are, in fact, still less than half of the funds deposited with the Treasury?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U79	Thank you. I can give you an overview of what the Minister of Finance gave us a few days ago. Of course, this situation changes every day, but generally speaking, the total liquidity reserve is 1 billion 260 million, of which the unemployment fund is 918 million, the stabilisation reserve is 414 million, the sickness fund is 198 million. Those orders of magnitude were a few days ago, around March 16. If you ask me what the state's financial situation is, I think the financial situation is good today. The question is how long this crisis is, how much we need, let us say, to release additional resources from our reserve. The fact that the state has collected reserves during different governments has been a very sensible direction, a very correct direction. But today, you can see that the money needs to be used now. This is the moment when different financial resources need to be used. All the parties who have done this work have certainly made a major contribution here. If you ask about bonds and all this, I will say once again that today we are going ahead with discussions on economic measures and fiscal measures and we are trying to present the final package as soon as possible to our business sector, but of course to the general public as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U80	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U81	Next, Kristen Michal asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U82	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister, I'm asking about personal protection. This issue has been dealt with a little bit here, but I'm going back a little bit. The Health Board, the Estonian state in general, has had various forecasts of the possibility of different crises and it has also been considered real that some viruses are causing an emergency. However, the Health Board has removed from its website a risk analysis that considers this threat to be quite high. You have made somewhat less stringent assessments of this, but you have also referred to the lack of personal protective equipment, and today the situation is still such that their supply is scarce. In Postimees, the Tartu ambulance manager said that the shortage of personal protective equipment could become a problem. Medical personnel who come directly to me say that even those on the front line lack protection. That's why I'm asking you today. The Riigikogu has been approached in writing by dentists who ask for protection from the state, as there is a high risk of infection by helping patients. The same problem I've heard from some psychiatrists, because they need protection in the same way when dealing with patients suspected of being infected. Yesterday I was shown a rather colourful message from a hospital in Tallinn. It was disbanded, and it was said that there was too much self-grooming when talking about supplies. It is important to save and therefore, at the start of the exchange, the nurse will issue masks, including one FFP3 mask for each of them, no new one will be given during the exchange. I reject politics, as was your call. I'm not looking for the culprit, I'm looking for actions. The focus should be on what a radical government can do to ensure that resources are better equipped. That's what I'm asking you: what are the concrete plans-steps to maximise the supply of equipment to the people on the front line?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U83	Thank you. I agree with what you said. The whole issue of personal protective equipment is extremely large, the problem is very wide. It's a fact, today it is. If you want to know what the situation is, I have the data as of March 11: protective glasses 2702, surgical masks over 200,000, while the estimated need for four months over 8.5 million, respirators FFP2 was 1311, need is over 800,000, respirators FFP3 was 2828 on March 11, the need was approximately 100,000. The gloves were in the order of 1.5 million, the need for 4.6 million. There were 78,000 quilts, over 200,000 needs. The defense suit was a little over 2,000 in need of 16,000. The most acute problem is masks FFP3 and goggles. Now, for some things, we can say that there are some tools coming up. Protective coats, for example, are arriving, and that gives a little confidence. When it comes to what the government has done, Estonia is well known to have joined 20 countries of the European Union in order to make a joint procurement. Yesterday, this was also discussed at the Council's video conference. These measures should provide relief, but this relief will be here in weeks, said in mid-April. On the other hand, we have worked every day to ensure that all logistics works, so that personal protective equipment is not stuck at borders. One example I gave earlier relates to Turkey. So we are trying to do everything we can to help our private sector. There are some positive signals about personal protective equipment. Certain Asian productions have started to recover; they can start delivering goods more quickly. So it's all 24 hours on the table every day, seven days a week. We are trying to ensure that personal protective equipment reaches Estonia as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U84	Kristen Michal, a more specific question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U85	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister, I'm glad to hear you're taking this seriously. This review was a week old, but I don't think it's changed much since March 11th. I rather have an additional question of two parts. What is the Estonian state doing to act as quickly as possible in a situation where bureaucratic rules often prevent us from acting together with private companies or like them in an emergency situation giving us more flexibility so that we can get the products we need inside Estonia and buy them elsewhere? And the other part of the question is about what should be dealt with today, unfortunately, all that is today is decided yesterday or the day before yesterday is about increasing the capacity of hospitals. That was on our agenda today, too, but we will not get to that question. My colleague, Urve Tiidus, had to ask that question. How are efforts now being made to maximise the capacity of hospitals? You indicated that by mid-April, hopefully new personal protective equipment will arrive, but maybe the moment will come when the epidemiologists will say that the angle of climb has become quite large and the hospitals will need the maximum capacity or, at least, its closeness.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U86	Thank you. I have a request. Don't take one facet out of my answer. As I said, there is much more of these steps, and this is a really big procurement that was made with the 20 countries of the European Union together. Yes, at the moment it is planned that these shipments will arrive in mid-April, but as I said, other procurements will also be on the table all the time and are being worked on. You very rightly mentioned the Estonian companies that I want to recognise here. As much as there are Estonian companies that can produce deso tools or who can also produce masks FFP3, they have done everything in their power to bring this goods more to the Estonian market, to increase their capacity. Cooperation has been with both the Minister of State Administration and the Minister of Social Affairs. I know these companies have raised their production capacities to a maximum. So I want to say to all Estonian entrepreneurs who operate in the medical sector and produce personal protective equipment that they have really been very flexible, they have increased their production capacity as much as possible to increase the quantity of goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U87	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I was surprised that health authorities began to signal a week ago that they might not have some protection for their own staff. The Health Board deleted an analysis from its website that foretold what we could be ready for in the near future and which, in some ways, has materialised. This inevitably raises the question of how it is possible in this situation that our front line is not equipped with the means of defence that we may suddenly need. After all, there have been some failures that you, as Prime Minister, have mentioned here today: supply difficulties, logistics problems. How is such a thing possible? And is it true that the 20,000 tests that are now expected in Estonia on Friday were just ordered? Or ordered, I don't know, 200,000 tests and got 20,000? How about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U89	Thank you. How is it possible that the shortage of personal protective equipment is so great? This is possible because the world has released a mad virus called the Corona and certainly could not be predicted. And it is also clear that not only Estonia, but also the European Union, we are still living in a completely different reality, a completely different one in Estonia and a completely different one in the European Union, when we lived three or four weeks ago. Well, that's a clear fact. During the last two or three weeks, border closures have taken place very decisively, not only in Europe, but also more broadly. That is why personal protective equipment has not moved at one point. It's caused this problem. Deficite is not just an Estonian question; it is a much wider issue. And I think that when we talk about workers at the front line, they should definitely also be brought together by people working in trade, people working in services. But, yeah, that's the reason. At yesterday's Council video conference, it was decided to introduce a temporary export authorisation system, especially for the export of medical devices to third countries, so that their availability in the European Union would be improved and not speculated on. You finally asked me if it was true that the amount I was talking about was supposed to be 200,000 instead of 200,000. No, I don't have that kind of information that, for some reason, there aren't gonna be 200,000 tests, but 20,000. But I do know that they'd rather have tests in the order of 25,000. The first part of this private-sector order, that 20000, arrives first, and 5,000 arrives very late. But the difference between the orders of magnitude that I hear from you for the first time is ten times. I don't know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U90	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U91	Next, Urmas Kruuse asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I was just offering to see if they ordered $200,000 and got 20,000 tests. I didn't know how much was ordered. But my question is about the German-Polish border and because it is an obstacle to the movement of goods. You have very much acknowledged the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he has personally fermented his sleeves, but I think this case shows that the Minister should not be as active as he works on the basis of incomplete information. There was a great deal of confusion among the people, and this led to people breaking through the borders in order for them to reach somewhere on the shore of hope, Estonia. I want to say that in crisis situations, it is extremely important that information is fair and adequate, even if it is painful for citizens. Any false information, including in this case, undermines the credibility of the management of the crisis, and that means that citizens may not act in the right way on the next order or request. For this reason, I would like to ask: were you informed, as the person responsible for your emergency, that it was as if you had to pass through Poland as a column? On what written basis was this information distributed to people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U93	Thank you. Of all the steps he has taken, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has informed me immediately. Full support for his actions by me! I myself have spoken on the same subject was the German-Polish border with the Polish Prime Minister on the phone on several occasions. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has really put a lot of time in there, and today's situation is such that the situation is coming to an end. For this, we must also thank the private sector, the Tallink Group. The Tallink Group will send a ship of Romance to Estonians waiting to return home from Europe, departing from Sassnitz harbour in Germany at 11:55 this evening. Both the people trapped on the Polish border and the citizens of Estonia living in Germany, who also wish to return home, will receive a seat on the ship. The ship arrives at the port of Riga tomorrow, orienting at 11:55 p.m. Latvia has not imposed restrictions on those who want to go home. Some passengers with passenger cars decided to travel to Estonia via Denmark, then Sweden and Finland. The problem arose on the German-Polish border when Poland did not authorise passenger cars to join the organized convoy of buses and minivans, or minivans, through Poland to the Baltics. While buses and minibuses were authorised and passenger trains were allowed to be used for transit, this was of little help because our countrymen were largely trapped at the border by personal means of transport. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there were about 100 people on the border at the time with about 30 cars. Negotiations at different levels lasted until the last moment. As I said, I was in constant contact with the Prime Minister of Poland myself, and in the end the refusal was justified by the fact that the police could not ensure the smooth movement of the convoy through Poland, as hundreds of passenger cars from other Baltic countries would have joined the convoy. The situation is extremely regrettable and deplorable that it has been done so. At one point, it was promised, this promise was passed on to our countrymen, in fact, that promise was not fulfilled. Then it was decided that a large ship of Romance would travel to Germany. As I said today at the beginning of Question Time, this morning we made an additional decision that the Star ship will start to sail in the next month, and this will help to ensure the carriage of goods on the Paldiski-Sassnitz route every day: one day then there and the other day back. As far as I know, about 20 trips have been ordered right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U94	Thank you. Since we currently have a slightly different working arrangement, if colleagues and honourable ministers do not mind, we would like to address this question to the end of the tenth question. Thank you. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U95	Thank you. Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! A question in the same area. As regards Estonians abroad, our citizens and their possible return to Estonia, it is understandable that it will also be somewhat easier to carry out different flights from mainland Europe or, as you mentioned, use Tallink's ships to help our people back to Estonia who are trapped in Europe. The availability of this information is, of course, very important. I understand the State Department's helpline is overloaded right now. As far as I know, at least a thousand calls were made to this phone yesterday alone. However, I have also been approached by many people who are farther away, for example in Asia, and their question now is what is the government's agenda in case it is virtually impossible to fly to Europe or even to our immediate area by using conventional routes. The same actually applies to people moving from Russia to Estonia and how they can reach Estonia. What action plan do you have on the table right now? What kind of information could go on with these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U96	Thank you for this question. Information could go from here to a very specific one: Estonia will do everything to bring its people back home. Estonia will provide all the help it can to bring its people home from the wider world. We must, of course, first find out where people are. The State Department has set up all its diplomatic channels for this purpose. That's what we're waiting for today. At the same time, when this information comes, you have to ask people what they want. I know about the specific Estonian people who are on Tenerife and say that they do not want to come home now, they want to stay there. They have agreements with their employer that allow them to work remotely. There are agreements with schoolteachers about children; they can study on the long road. So we have to move forward very specifically with each family, each individual. And that ability is definitely there. We had a meeting of the COVID-19 Committee of the Government of the Republic a few days ago. We discussed economic measures. There we heard information that there might be a problem coming back from Hurghada, Egypt. The people of the Ministry of Economic Affairs were immediately asked to attend our committee meeting and it was made clear whether charter planes were flying or not, what was going to go down in Egypt's airspace and how all this was going down. This problem seemed to resolve in such a way that charter flights would bring people back. And, of course, this information was also given to social media. So all the people of Estonia who see the current transfer and who have a problem getting back home are the right way to report it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'm sure they'll be contacted. Our desire is to help our people around the world and to give them the opportunity to return home if that is their desire. Everyone's welcome home.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U97	Thank you. And today's final question. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U98	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! Your previous answer was exhaustive, but if I may, I will ask about the economic field. The Government of the Republic and the Crisis Committee have called for the reduction of all possible close contacts and the transition to e-commerce, as far as possible. Today, unfortunately, the law prohibits domestic distance selling in e-cigarette stores. Is it possible, however, in an emergency situation to allow this to happen to 40,000 people? Sending these people to Latvia is at this point unmanly. I also expect that tax money should still be brought to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U99	Thank you. So let's just make sure that this e-cigarette thing I'm talking to the Ministry of Economics and Communications. We will discuss the options in this area specifically. I'll give you direct information once we've dealt with this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-18_U100	Thank you. I thank all my colleagues, I thank the government ministers. Question Time is over. Be well!
