ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The Supreme Court asked the Constitutional Committee to deal quickly with an urgent concern. In fact, the President of the Supreme Court cannot convene the full court of judges in time. Consequently, the Constitutional Committee initiates a draft law amending the Law on the Courts, which aims to enable the Supreme Court and the Chairman of the Supreme Court to convene the full court of judges in the form of a web transfer if necessary. But more specifically about this bill when we get to the first reading of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U3	Thank you. No more members of the Riigikogu wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. I have adopted a draft on behalf of the Bureau, and the Bureau will process it in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, attention, announcements! Today, after the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up the Estonia ferry's disaster investigation support group, convener Kalle Grünthal. Ladies and gentlemen, presence control!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U4	82 members of the Riigikogu registered, missing 19. Attention, detailing the agenda. On today's second item, the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and Bankruptcy initiated by the Government of the Republic, Tarmo Tamm, President of the Committee, will make a presentation by the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U5	We can go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act 253 on amendments to the State Pension Insurance Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. On behalf of the Group of the Marika Tuus-Laul Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There is now a very important item on the agenda for voting before us and, as I have understood in previous readings of the draft, all the political groups will certainly be intending to support the extraordinary increase in pensions. It is absolutely necessary now, it is rational and I cannot imagine that no one will support this bill. Why do I start like this right now? But because it hasn't always been that way. While we also proposed, 13 years ago, with the central group, that pensions should be increased exceptionally, for example, one of the largest political parties that is no longer in politics today, Res Publica, who promised an accelerated increase in pensions in the elections, did not vote for a single vote in favour of this draft. All 28 members either were absent, did not vote, did not state themselves present, or pressed the yellow neutral button. This means that they did not care at all about this increase in pensions and coping with the elderly. A few small groups made such a statement that they supported this draft, but in fact only a few votes of support were given. As an example of Res Publica in his day, pension increases come at the expense of today's young people and workers. Why am I reminding you now? But because it's all become clear by now that pensions are never paid at the expense of anyone. It's just that today you're going to work and pay taxes so you can get a pension for those people who went to work last night and paid taxes to get a pension for the elderly. Society doesn't start today, it doesn't end tomorrow, it can only exist in constant rotation, continuous renewal. It is therefore the duty of all of us today to improve the lives of pensioners, our mothers and grandmothers, because their quality of life is not at all good. On the contrary! Taking into account statistics from a few years ago, which say that the relative poverty rate of older people in Estonia is the highest in the European Union, it is clear that the contribution to pension increases is essential and inevitable even in these very difficult economic times. Why are we really the most recent in Europe on this issue? But because by conventional indexation, we do not improve the living standards of the elderly, but simply slightly compensate for the increase in the cost of living. We have had very low pensions since the beginning of time. One reason is that for nearly 20 years, social tax money for pensions has been transferred to the second pillar and, by that, pensions are smaller today, I think, by about 100 euros. And if the insistence of the Centre Party had not been made in the past with coalition partners for an extraordinary pension increase, today's pension would be about 100 euros less. In today's coalition, too, the extraordinary pension increase is the basis of our coalition agreement and we want to increase pensions exceptionally in the future, because the elderly have earned it simply through their life's work. Besides, we do not want to remain Europe's last. The average increase of 20 euros or a little more than that is not what the generation that raised us deserves, but shows a good will to stand up for these people. We are particularly pleased that the national pension rate is increasing by EUR 30, i.e. the income of pensioners with the lowest incomes, increasing to EUR 251.63, which now guarantees at least the minimum subsistence rate. These are the lowest-income pensioners that we have 1% of all pensioners, or around 3000. One more minute, please! I call on everyone to vote in favour of an extraordinary increase in pensions. We will do this today and we will all continue to do it together, because firstly, our elderly deserve it, and secondly, we are in a very, very embarrassing situation in Europe's eyes. If we do not find the strength and will to increase pensions exceptionally in the future, then I think it is not far from being the time when social justice will be demanded through court.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U7	Thank you. Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please! Come carefully to the remote, the first two have already stumbled.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U8	President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! The bill that will become law soon after the vote is definitely expected and will receive support in this Chamber. Since the size of pensions is a key source of income for older people in order to alleviate the poverty of the elderly, no one in this Chamber is likely to object to the increase in the basic part of pensions, the pension supplement for raising children and the increase in the national pension rate. Older people's income is close to risk. Thus, the fall of older people into poverty depends on the pace of pension and wage change: as quickly as pensions grow, the general standard of living in society improves and pensioners do not fall into relative poverty. True, an increase of 16 euros in the base is not exactly what is expected, but any increase is in any case positive and in the right direction. In view of the fact that the previous increase in the base was EUR 7, the government must certainly be commended, although the elections were talking about considerably larger numbers and better pensions. An increase of 30 euros in the national pension rate is also very necessary and expected. Household types are in the most difficult situation for single-person households, especially for individuals aged 65 or over, and very often they are very few, namely women. In Estonia, old age, poverty and the face of a woman who has the right to care for herself. It is not difficult to understand that a carer of working age who receives care allowance of 40 euros per month, for example, is a very small pension beneficiary when he reaches retirement age. According to social security data, the average old-age pension was 446,52 euros in 2018, 481 euros in 2019, 528 euros in 2020 and 544 euros on 1 April 2021. Of course, income tax went down on every amount in excess of EUR 500, both this year and last year. The reason I came here to speak today is because of what the government unfortunately has not done, but what the elderly expect and deserve. Every person with a pension of more than EUR 500 is currently paying and will continue to pay income tax on the part exceeding EUR 500 in the new year. The amendments to the state budget for 2021, which would exempt seniors receiving an average pension from income tax, were also not supported in this Chamber. Income tax is also paid on the pension supplement for children if it exceeds EUR 500 together with the pension. This hall has twice not supported the draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Social Democratic Party, according to which the government should have developed and implemented the principles of the organisation of long-term care and be able to support local governments so that they can provide additional services to older people for longer-term living in their own homes and, if necessary, also assessed to obtain care for their pension. I'm sorry, I'm sorry! The argument that there is still a need to analyse and investigate is not true, because studies, both domestic and international, have been carried out over the years and their materials are in great numbers in the Ministry of Social Affairs. In 2021 there will be no change in the lives of those who care for the elderly, at least the state will not change anything in the light of the common principles of Estonia. Quite the contrary: because in the new year, there will be an increase in prices in the elderly homes, many close ones will be forced to become carers, not because of desire, but because of coercion, because they will not be able to pay the place fee. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U9	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U10	The review of the Social Insurance Institution shows that the greatest increase in the cost of providing care is the proportion of the people themselves, i.e. the amount paid by the elderly or by their loved ones. While it was €32.47 million in 2014, it was €61.23 million in 2019, an increase of €29 million. The local government grant was 12.52 million euros in 2014 and 16.9 million euros in 2019, or an increase of only 4.38 million euros. However, other costs related to the provision of maintenance services, including State participation, have fallen. While it was EUR 0.23 million in 2014, it was EUR 0.05 million in 2019, a reduction of EUR 0.18 million. All this despite the fact that in the run-up to the elections, the parties currently in the coalition made promises to the people and were believed and supported. Should we not ask today whether we should refer 2 million to a referendum or, for example, to a greater involvement of the state in care services? The promises that there will be no change in the situation of people facing rising prices in elderly homes in 2022 will not help much at present. We owe our people not to worry about coping and coping with old age even when their need for help increases. They should not worry that their children and grandchildren will become slaves to so-called nursing homes. All of us want to live as long as possible on our own and with decision-making, but not everyone leaves in old age, skates on their feet and tennis rackets in their hands. There are many honest people throughout their lives who are alone in old age or who receive services largely at the expense of family members' incomes. It is also justified to point out that the elderly are not treated equally. The strength and ethics of society are determined by the way in which the weaker and the more vulnerable are cared for. We can rightly say that, with today's bill in mind, we are talking about the elderly, about their livelihood, and here we still have a long step to take. The Social Democrats support the bill becoming a law, vote in favour, but still put coalition parties to heart that promises must be fulfilled and older people have the right to a safe old age. Unfortunately, this is not the case at the moment. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U11	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Aivar Kokk Fatherland Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U12	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit, I wasn't planning on coming here today, but the representative of the Central Party made me come here and remind me of history in a slightly different way. It is a pity that those with whom we were with a few years ago in the Committee on Social Affairs have a selective memory. The pension is not just about the base. The pension consists of many different parts. The maternity pension is currently in force under the leadership of the Patriotic Party. If you read the law that is being passed today, EUR 16 is a negligible part of what a three-year-old mother gets because she has a maternity pension. And the maternity pension rises by a factor of 1.5. I would remind Mrs Marika that when we were both in this committee, we made two decisions: one was a maternity pension and the other was a pensioner's allowance. If the base share increased by EUR 7 this year and the next year rises by EUR 6, this amount will be lower than the pensioner's allowance or maternity pension living alone. We have forgotten another very important thing. A few years ago, there was a serious debate on pensions. The pension calculation has been based on social tax since 1999 and will change since next year. This fight has also been a fundamental struggle in this Chamber. There have been different perceptions. I know that the Fatherland has been very supportive of the fact that social tax must be taken into account and that, at the same time, careers must also be taken into account. The pension calculation begins next year, with 50% and 50%: 50% depends on social tax and 50% depends on retirement. There is no point in saying that nobody in opposition said one thing and the coalition did not support it. This often depends on where we sit, but our common goal must be one: to fight for the well-being of the people of Estonia, to protect them. It is clear that there are two parties today who are weaker: some are families and others are elderly. Their support is the purpose of all coalitions. There's no point in coming here to blame for someone who ever voted something different. We can point out the voting tables, and I think that there are no politicians in this Chamber who have not voted one, two or three on different drafts. The decision is the political decision of this moment. Most decisions are made politically. At the same time, I hope that the economic side, the capacity and the purpose of the decisions are also very clearly thought out. Today we are moving towards making sure that people, whether they are on a higher or lower salary, can do better during their retirement so that they do not have to go to municipalities to trade social assistance or receive support, but manage on their own. Of course, the goal is that at one point a pension could be such that if a person needs to go to a nursing home, he can manage his own pension. I can't do that now. But it's been every day and every year a step closer. Prices often run out of the way before the law is followed, but I would once again like, ladies and gentlemen, to see more consensus here on issues relating to older people and children. As a young man, when he took his oath yesterday, said that there could be more love, understanding, and understanding, so that we would not talk about making things happen here. I was then chairman of the committee, and these decisions came from the committee when the current parental pension was made. One of the political promises of our party was a maternity pension and the other was the support of a single-living pensioner. Both of these were subsidies proposed by our party. I remember very well that when the pension reform was made in 2015, when Fatherland was in opposition, I asked...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U13	Dear waitress, would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U14	One minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U15	Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U16	... why the main part of the pension is not changed. The then President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, said that we do not fully understand this. Fortunately, it is now legalised and, as of 1 January, it will apply to pensions accounting for both sides of both retirement and social security contributions, so that people with lower pay will also receive a slightly more decent pension when they reach retirement age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U17	Thank you. Siim Pohlak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Conservative People's Party, of course, supports the pension rise and is delighted that it is possible to do so despite difficult times. Older people, whose early work is based on the fruits of today's Estonian state, certainly deserve that we move towards making the average pension exempt from income tax. But today I call on all the ambassadors to vote in favour of a pension increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U19	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 253 and we will go to it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U20	88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, one against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U21	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the second reading of draft law 226 on the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Animals and Bankruptcy initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Tarmo Tamme, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U22	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the text of the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and the Law on Bankruptcy, I will also give a small overview of the procedure in the Steering Committee between the first and second readings. The draft law amending the Law on Animal Protection and the Law on Bankruptcy was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 September 2020. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on October 21, 2020 and the first reading was closed. The development of the draft law amending the Law on Animal Protection was due to the need to resolve problems encountered in the implementation of the Law on Animal Protection and the Law on Bankruptcy. The current law deprives the owner of the task of keeping animals in accordance with the rules laid down in the law on replacement and coercion and places it on the local government unit. This is a public task, the costs of which must be borne by the local government unit from the state budget. Since these are relatively unpredictable costs, which may not be incurred every year, it is not possible to plan a certain amount for this purpose in the state budget, just in case. The procedure for requesting funds from the reserve of the Government of the Republic is also not suitable for obtaining the funds necessary for the performance of this task, as it is necessary to start spending on the same day as the obligation to perform the task is imposed. It has also proved too time-consuming for subsequent reimbursement of expenditure from the state budget. This has led to an unconstitutional situation in which a local government unit must find money on the account of its tasks or make a choice as to which duties to perform and which ones not to perform. It has therefore been decided to entrust this task to the Agricultural and Food Administration, the State whose budget provides for the necessary resources for this activity, and who can use this amount for keeping animals from the time that the obligation to maintain the animal properly has been taken over. Expenditure incurred by the State shall be charged to the keeper from whom the obligation to keep the animal properly was taken over. This amendment applies to all animals, both farmed animals and pet animals, animals in circuses and zoos and other animals. The amendment does not concern stray animals. Dealing with stray animals remains the responsibility of the local government. The draft also amends the need under the Bankruptcy Act to ensure the protection of animal health and life, even if the keeper has been declared bankrupt and the bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated. The amendment provides for an obligation for the insolvency practitioner to ensure that, where the debtor's property includes an animal, the proper keeping of the animal and provides for the duty of the Agricultural and Food Board and the insolvency administrator to be required in a situation where replacement filling is necessary for the holding of the animal. During the process of involvement, the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities also addressed the Committee on Rural Affairs, which proposed to amend the current legislation and also to oblige the country to pay for the vaccination against rabies of the animal brought into the country. The opinion submitted by the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities was taken into account as the draft does not regulate the activities of the local government unit. The draft does not regulate stray animals either. Under the proposed arrangements for the transposition of the animal retention obligation, the animal keeper is transferred from the country which transfers the obligation of keeping to another keeper by way of a replacement, to the shelter in the case of pet animals. Other animal keepers are private persons, and shelters generally operate in the form of a non-profit organisation. The Rural Commission discussed a draft law amending the Animal Protection Act and the Bankruptcy Act 226 at its meeting on 23 November 2020. During the meeting, the amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were examined and procedural decisions were taken. Kadri Farirand, adviser to the Food Safety Department's Office for Animal Health and Well-being, and Margus Proses, chief specialist at the same office, Ingrid Raidme, Deputy Head of the Legal Department and Katrin Tuula, adviser to the Legal Department, also attended the meeting of the Commission as representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The bill was sent to the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for technical and linguistic purposes, and the language editor's comments, which were accepted by the representative of the initiator of the draft, are included in the text of the draft. Amendments. The deadline for submitting amendments was 5.15 p.m. on 4 November 2020. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The commission, together with the representatives of the initiator, prepared two amendments of a technical nature. Decisions on amendments were taken by the Commission by vote and are included in the list of amendments. For the sake of readability, the explanations of the amendments have been left on the list of each amendment. Procedural decisions of the leading committee: the commission adopted a decision to send a draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and Bankruptcy initiated by the Government of the Republic to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for a second reading on 8 December 2020 with a proposal to terminate the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 15 December and to put 226 to the final vote of the SE. The amendments are of a very short and technical nature: in § 1 of the draft, replace the words "Veterinary and Food Administration" with the words "Agricultural and Food Administration." This is due to the fact that in the meantime these agencies have been merged and the name of the Agency has been changed. The second amendment is to amend the text of § 3 of the draft text and to formulate one sentence as follows: "This Act shall enter into force on 10 January 2021. " That's it, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U23	Thank you. Honourable waitress, there are also questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U24	Good manager! Good waitress! It's not about stray dogs and cats, but about puddles and lab rats and zoo giraffes and circus elephants. But my question is, how big is the company that we're talking about, because we're hardly talking about lab rats or zoo animals now? And how much does that mean to the state financially?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U25	Thank you. The stray dogs are dealt with by the local government and will continue to be the responsibility of the local authorities. But how many bankruptcies are there? Luckily, there aren't too many. But for that, the law has been prepared that if such a sad incident occurs, these animals would not be fed, treated and so on. There's a procedure for that. In the past, this was the case of the local government, which later applied for money from the state, but now it is transferred to the Agriculture and Food Board. But I hope this isn't happening at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U26	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U27	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! It is well known that this bill was brought to this House by Rey Pork Farming's bankruptcy in Kehtna. It's been five years, actually. Here's my question. When we are talking about animal welfare, which is certainly a very important area, as a former Minister for Rural Affairs, you may be able to comment on why this process, so that local authorities do not have this competence and responsibility, has taken so long? Responsibility, too, will probably now go naturally to the right place. But this process has really taken an incredibly long time. Why don't you explain a little?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U28	Thank you. We did not, of course, examine in the Commission why, after Rey's bankruptcy, it has taken so long for this bill to reach Parliament. I guess this hasn't turned out to be so topical, because fortunately, there have been no further cases. But Rey's case was really instructive, and it was a good thing you reminded me of it. The local government was supposed to do and feed these animals and so on. Fortunately, there have been no more cases and there has probably been no need for this law either. But I can't tell you, I guess some kind of authority has found it's not that topical. Fortunately for today, he is in front of the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu, and it will eventually become a law. Local authorities can be calm that they will no longer have to deal with animals in the future and spend additional resources on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U29	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U30	Good manager! Good waitress! Still, as I understand it, this is a theoretical matter, but there are many theoretical things that can happen in Estonia. And now all of a sudden this bill for puddles and lab mice and circus lions gets here on our desk to decide. How come this Rey bankruptcy is now the most painful thing? But the second particular question. The Animal Protection Society suggested that if the auction of farm animals failed, a second auction could be made, not immediately to remove the animals into the meat combinate. It was knocked down. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U31	Nor can it be ruled out that I hope that this will never happen in the Estonian country, nor must zoo animals be protected in any way. When we read news about Europe, in many countries the number of visitors to the pandemic has decreased and zoos are really thinking about what to do with their animals. But I do not think that such a thing will happen in Estonia; the Estonian state will still be able to support these animals. Why are these animals being executed, and why are they not kept longer? It's all about spending. But generally, I think cattle are bought up by other businesses, and I don't think there's any reason to start killing them. I recently read that someone shared chinchillas. Chinchillas found all the happy homes. Estonians are a very animal-friendly nation, and I do not think we will have such a situation that we should start killing animals in connection with bankruptcy. These tools, I think, the state will.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U32	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! To make it clear to colleagues that this case of Rey cost local authorities some EUR 20000. But more importantly, the competence to deal with these matters is certainly not in the local government. Since it may be bankruptcy property and claims against the holding, the rapid disposal of animals, including the transport to the slaughterhouse, could damage the property, since the animals are not in a condition where they could be best priced. My question to the honourable waitress is: is it theoretically possible that if the state at one point covers this cost and reaches the bankruptcy process, the state may lose its spending because it is not the first in line?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U34	Yeah, there's a theoretical possibility. That is what we discussed in the Commission. In fact, the costs incurred by the State, if any, will be covered through the bankruptcies, but such costs must be prepared. The state also has to bear the costs in certain cases, and there is nothing to be done, but I say that this probability is not high. Bankrupts occur, they can still happen, it's a certain part of the economy, but I don't know that there's any possibility of them in livestock farming right now. I think these animals will be bought by other operators. But at least this law creates the assumption and certainty that these animals will not remain in the sky and will be fed and treated and so on. That's the purpose of the law. But thanks for reminding me of this Rey case, it really cost 20,000 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U35	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U36	Good manager! Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Perhaps you would describe the situation that, for example, if a 200-headed cattle farm goes bankrupt and is handed over to the state, then who will deal with these cows, such as milking and all this. Is there some sort of organisation in the country? Is anyone going to the ministry, or is the Committee on Rural Affairs going, or who going to solve this problem and how long? For example, at this point in time, we see that buyers, like those in agriculture, are nowhere to be found. If it's taken over by the country, there's gotta be somebody who's gonna deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U37	Thank you. This, of course, was not discussed by the Commission which Commission could help, whether it was the Committee on Monetary Affairs or the Committee on Rural Affairs. But that's what the Agriculture and Food Board is for. I don't think they're taking officials there. There are still specialists who know the area and the field a little bit, whether they're from a neighbouring farm or somewhere else. I think this work will be done with the help of specialists. State, state officials don't go there because they don't have that competence and their job is something else. So I think it's going to be settled on a rolling basis. The task of the Agriculture and Food Board is to resolve this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U38	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm still gonna ask you that question. Pets are dealt with by NGOs, private organisations, although local governments have a responsibility to deal with stray or homeless animals. If, now, the situation arises that, for example, the NGO of Shadowplaces, which deals with pet issues, goes bankrupt, they operate predominantly on charitable grounds and live from donations, if there is bankruptcy, whose obligation will it be? Does the bill have anything to do with it or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U40	It is clearly stated in the explanatory memorandum that the task of dealing with stray animals remains the responsibility of the local government. Either he's at the shelter or he's somewhere else, the dog's a dog. The local authorities must resolve this issue. I think that the co-owner of most asylums or the funder of non-profit institutions is also a local government. This is a task for the local government; this task does not extend to the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U41	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Perhaps to clarify to colleagues that the primary objective is that animals should be fed and not perished. The questioner who asked how the cows could be milked is also right. But these companies generally also have employees who have done this job. The question is that an entrepreneur or owner does not want to fund it anymore, and then the question arises as to how these animals can be fed. But people usually want to get their paychecks, and they are actually ready to do the job.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U43	Thank you, my good colleague, for a very good clarification. If the company goes bankrupt, the employees are usually still in the company. It may also be that workers have somehow broken up because they have long been paid and so on. But their only chance is to get the proceeds from bankruptcy. So it was a very good addition, actually. That doesn't mean these people are broke and they're broken up. Thank you, Urmas!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U44	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U45	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Now, if I understand your answer correctly, it is the farm office that receives this task. If I take off the farm office's home page, he'll do the certification of seed potatoes and land improvement and the registration of fertilisers and everything else, but he doesn't do agriculture in any way. Can you tell me if they have any funds allocated from the state budget? I didn't see that line under the Ministry of Rural Affairs, but maybe there'll be other gains. If such a situation arises, then there must be resources somewhere to cover these costs. If there are people, they must be paid if a company is bankrupt. Was this also discussed in the Commission or was it not discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U46	Thank you. It's a new establishment. The Food and Veterinary Office has joined the Agricultural Office, so this competence also exists on the veterinary side. There is no point in doubting that it is not only on the agricultural side, it is on the agricultural side, it is also on the livestock side. So the Food and Veterinary Office has joined the Agricultural Office and now it is the new Agriculture and Food Agency, which unfortunately does not include it on the veterinary side. It's a little misleading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U47	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment is from the Committee on Rural Affairs, the position of the lead committee: take full account. The second amendment, as well as the position of the Committee on Rural Affairs, the lead committee: take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 226. The second reading is closed and this item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U48	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Group of the Estonian Central Party and the Group of the Isamaa. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U49	Thank you. The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the preparation for second reading of the draft law amending excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity on 16th, 17th and 24th November and 3rd December. The Commission met with representatives of market participants and stakeholders on 16 November. The Commission proposed two amendments. One is the time of implementation: at the beginning of the draft it was 1 December of this year, but it was transferred to 1 April so that market participants could withdraw their excise marks in accordance with this law. The second is a textual amendment: from 1 April 2021 until 31 December 2022 no excise duty is levied on nicotine-containing and non-nicotine-free tobacco liquids and, during this period, no excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity are applied to tobacco liquids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U50	Thank you. You have questions too. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! The representative of the Commission should take stock of the discussions in the Commission. I do not think you have done so now because one of the discussions we had in the Commission concerned that Latvia has made amendments to its law to raise excise duty to the level of Estonia between the initiation of the draft and reaching the Commission's discussions. As a result, the question arose as to whether it makes sense to swim against the current in Estonia, which is its logic. I did not get a clear answer at the Commission's meetings as to why this had to be done. Maybe you'll open this discussion, and second, you'll be able to explain why you should do it in this room.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U52	Thank you for a good question, Maris. Sorry, there really was a discussion at several meetings of the Commission on whether to move the excise duty rate to zero for two years or to reduce it from 0.2 to 0.1 or 0.12. We know that a few weeks ago, the Latvian Parliament passed a law with an excise duty rate of 0.12 for e-cigarettes next year. It will be 0.16 in 2022 and 0.2 in 2023, as it is currently the case in Estonia. Today, the initiators are proposing that it be zeroed for two years in order to eliminate border trade and the black market. This transition to 0.2 again in two years may cause different problems for market participants. The vendors of tobacco, e-cigarettes have hit two pages on the market. Some say that they want the excise duty cut to be reduced to zero for two years, and the other says that it could be reduced by half.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U53	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U54	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Do you consider the solution that the bill has become to be the most sensible? Does this reflect the debates that we have actually had in the Commission over a year and a half?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U55	Thank you, Riina! I can speak here in front of the debates and decisions of the Commission, not my own personal opinion. The Commission has decided to zero the excise duty for a year and nine months. As an entrepreneur, I might have analysed and made a different decision. What may happen is that, at the beginning of next year, we need to come back to this again and discuss it. At the moment, the Commission's decision is on the table as such.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U56	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You're a fine word at the opening of the committee discussions, but I'll give you one more chance. We also discussed the extent to which border trade is taking place, and it has also been pointed out that, as a result of the corona situation, the trans-national movement has changed significantly. There cannot be much of this movement, and perhaps there can be no such smuggling, the volumes of which no one can adequately estimate. After all, it was also said that excise duties cannot be the same, they do not have to be. The so-called black market, if any, can be affected even if there is a certain degree of difference in excise duties. Maybe you'll open this discussion more in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U58	Thank you. Yes, when we had a lot of different parties at the table, i.e. all the interest groups were invited, there were different views in the discussions. For example, AS Deloitte Advisory: ensure equal treatment of tobacco liquids and solid substitutes for tobacco. NÜ NNA Smoke-free Estonia: After the period of exemption, taxation should be based on the harmfulness of the product and real consumption costs, such as setting a low rate of excise duty on e-liquid, exempting nicotine-free products from excise duty, and the level of excise duty could be based on nicotine content. Nicorex Baltic OÜ has offered to reduce the excise duty rate by at least half on all e-liquids on a permanent basis, i.e. EUR 0.08 per ml, instead of a temporary exemption. Vape Group OÜ: After two years of excise duty exemption, a long-term solution is needed, nicotine-free products are exempt from excise duty. Jne, et cetera. As many as there were different parties at the table, there were different visions and perceptions. At the moment when the bill was handed over to the Riigikogu, did the situation in Latvia not know? In the final phase of the debate, it was known that there was a debate in Latvia. I may be wrong now, but about a week and a half ago, the Latvian Parliament made its decision. In this light, there have been different ideas and ideas on this table, but this is the wish of the initiators, and the Commission has supported this wish of the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U59	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U60	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Is there any party who actually supports the solution that has taken the form of the draft? That the rate of excise duty is abolished and is done on a temporary basis. Is there anyone who supports such a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U61	Thank you. I just read some of the parties. The problem here is that there are also minor differences of opinion between e-cigarette vendors. Some wish there was a fall in excise duty. I read that, for example, Smoke-free Estonia [has its own opinion], and if I am not wrong now, the Vape Group has its own opinion here and Deloitte Advisory has its own opinion here and Nicorex Baltic has its own opinion. Everyone has a bit of a different opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U62	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U63	Thank you. Unfortunately, I wasn't at that first meeting when you started the bill, but the ones I was participating in made it look really bad. I did not understand exactly this, but it seemed to me that the government was very sceptical about this subject, and I am thinking here of the officials of the Ministry of Finance, who are actually covering the subject, and that in fact we do not have any statistical indicators on the basis of which this draft was initiated. Can you comment on the government's decision and on the figures on the basis of this initiative concerning the volume of the market, the volume of border trade, the volume of the black market? These things were confused in the Commission, I don't know whether they were deliberately or accidentally. Do you have the data?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U64	Thank you. On 2 July, the Government decided to support the draft while making comments. And these comments have been taken into account in the amendments to the second reading of the draft. Different opinions have been published on the quantities of black-market cigarettes, while the various market players offer slightly different figures. But the initiators are now aiming at curbing border trade by cutting excise duties.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U65	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The question arose as to how much you took into account health risks and other health issues in the Commission. Did you also ask for coordination or opinion from the Committee on Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U67	Thank you. The Social Affairs Committee was not consulted. But all studies that are publicly available show that e-cigarette consumption is far safer than normal smoking. And this is one of the transitions to quit smoking when you go from a regular cigarette to an e-cigarette and you end up giving up at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U68	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U69	Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good Aivar! As I understand it, we are solving the problem of a smaller excise duty in our neighbouring country, we have border trade and, therefore, we have this draft in this Chamber. In recent minutes-days, it has become apparent that this problem is falling off or [has already fallen]. Now we have several options. One option is that the Committee on Monetary Affairs is meeting very quickly, proposing that the second reading be stopped. You check-in, you take a call to a colleague in Latvia, you check it out, you use other channels of information. The second option is that you may not be able to convene the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and there are not such good negotiations with the leaders of the group that they are proposing that it be interrupted. I'll do it. I'll write that paper. Please, negotiate with your group, interrupt [this procedure], discuss and come to this Chamber with a better plan from the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It's a good plan, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U70	Thank you. The first question I can answer to you is that yes, I have spoken to my Latvian colleagues and they have confirmed that I also have this paper in writing that the Latvian Parliament has adopted the Act on Excise Duties. If you are asking whether [the situation] concerns border trade, especially in the area where you have applied and become an ambassador, yes, today's situation has led to the situation that, for example, Võru has closed down this kind of trade, as far as I know, because no one went to Võru anymore, but crossed the border, went away in Valka and was bought [necessary]. That is why this [draft] was also launched in the spring of this year. And the answer to the third [question] is that all political groups have the right to propose that the second reading be interrupted. There is no way that this can be denied or ordered by the chairman of the committee, the spokesperson.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U71	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U72	Thank you. I actually asked seriously what were, first of all, the arguments of the government on this draft. This commentary support, isn't it the result of some kind of lobbying and political agreement, but I would like to hear an expert opinion on the basis of the government's decision or comments. Secondly, I would like to hear what is the volume of border trade and the black market, which was so much discussed in the Commission. We should actually explain what problem we are solving. I suggested that we seriously discuss these rates of excise duty, but not at this level, as was the case in the Commission. What's more interesting about your papers so we can decide?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U73	Thank you, Jurgen! There is no more in my papers than there was in the committee in the debate where you yourself took part. And the questions were answered, we had a representative of the initiators in [Commission] preparing for the first reading. And before the second reading, we had been invited by Heidi Vessel and Marek Uusküla to present the positions of the Government of the Republic, and their reasons are in the minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U74	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U75	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Two questions. The first is what the Ministry of Social Affairs, as the Ministry responsible for health, thinks of this proposal to promote smoking. And the second question concerns this two-year period of change. Since the absence of excise duty, as I understand it, will end during this parliamentary term, on the basis of which metrics and criteria this hall will assess whether the measure has been effective or not after two years or a year and a half. For example, you talked about changing from regular cigarettes to e-cigarettes. If smoking is not reduced, but using e-cigarettes increases, was it a wise measure or was it not a wise measure? What are these performance assessment metrics for you and the initiators?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U76	Thank you. The government has coordinated this bill. One member of the government is also the Minister for Social Affairs; he represents the opinion of the Ministry of Social Affairs in this coordination; the Commission has not specifically asked him. What really is this argument about? On the Estonian market, e-liquids are sold and there are two of them, but they do not know whether the word "sort" is the right option: one is nicotine-rich and the other is nicotine-free and both are subject to excise duty today. The initiators of the draft act initially wanted to exempt nicotine-free liquid from excise duty and nicotine-containing liquids to reduce excise duty in order to make it evener to compete on the market. We know that about 20% of e-cigarette liquids sold in Estonia are nicotine-free and 80% contain nicotine. In Latvia, while e-cigarettes have been taxed only on nicotine content, two thirds of the Latvian market is nicotine free, while the rest of the neighbours have 20%. If the sale of nicotine-containing e-liquids in Latvia is 30%, in Estonia and in neighbouring countries 80%, it can be seen that this option does not work. Another concern is that if there is income from that excise duty, the tax administration will pay more to carry out the checks. And then two options were left on the table: either to reduce the excise duty on e-cigarettes or to bring it to zero. The initiators want this year and nine months to be zeroed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U77	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I did not quite understand when you referred to the fact that you did not consult the Committee on Social Affairs, but you referred to the expert's opinion, whose argument was that using e-liquids in this way is healthier. What expertise have you relied on, and who gave such expertise? I have heard the doctors say publicly that the most [relevance over] that is inhaled after fresh air has to be considered several times, regardless of the nicotine content inside it. Who were the experts who gave the Commission advice on health issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U79	Thank you. The speaker in front of you certainly did not say that e-cigarette is healthy. I'm sure it isn't. And if anyone asks me about smoking at all, I'm sure I'm one of the biggest anti-smoking agents, whether it's e-cigarette or anything else. Smoking is, in my opinion, the most harmful thing human society has ever done. There are other harmful things. However, when officials from the Ministry of Finance went to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to present this draft, it was also discussed the effects [of] on the body of ordinary tobacco or cigars or e-cigarettes. During the debate, it turned out that the use of e-cigarettes is not as harmful as the consumption of conventional cigarettes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U80	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U81	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am very pleased that you do not think that e-cigarette is a health product. Did you not think, either as a member of the Commission or as chairman, that the opinion could also be sought from the Committee on Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U82	Thank you. All committees will have the opportunity to express their views on the various drafts if they so wish. Yes, you have to shake it in your head that this issue did not come up in the Commission, and it did not go to the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U83	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U84	However, Maris Lauri raised this issue, in the minutes it exists. Take a look, Mr. Chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U85	Yeah, I'm sure I'll check it out, and I'm sorry if that's the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U86	I'm asking now. Thank you. The question concerns the metrics on the basis of which the effectiveness of this measure will be assessed at the end of 2022. It was a long answer, but it wasn't content. However, please try to explain what kind of change we are waiting for in a situation where the Latvians have made their policy changes and have fallen off the main incentive to adopt this law. What changes are we now waiting for so that we could say, yes, that was a reasonable idea? As regards harmlessness, the Commission undoubtedly said that there are 95% less harmful substances in e-cigarette liquids, but the long-term health effects of substances in e-cigarette liquids have not been sufficiently studied in the world. Perhaps health risks are possible, but they are simply not as clearly identified as in the case of tobacco. But the question: how do we assess this effectiveness in this measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U87	Thank you. In the context of the efficiency assessment, the Commission's consultation had two criteria. One is the disappearance of the black market, i.e. the loss of the opportunity or the desire to mix liquids somewhere in the 'garage corner'. So that they are still bought from trade already packaged by the manufacturer and there is no fear that substances that are not really allowed to be mixed and which are even more dangerous than [liquids] packed in the factory today will be mixed. And the second is how much consumers of regular cigarettes are decreasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U88	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U89	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In the round of engagement, were the Social Affairs Committee not involved, well empty because, perhaps, lung doctors or other medical specialists besides economics people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U90	Thank you. No, we did not have doctors involved in this matter. It is a question of excise duty, not of eliminating tobacco from the market or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U91	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U92	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Is it logical that we always rely on what Latvia is doing in our excise policy? And if we've been guided by this, why did we have such a high excise duty since 2018, even though Latvia didn't have it? Wasn't Latvia at that point in time our direction indicator, but today we have chosen that we always have to base every decision on the rate of excise duty in Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U93	Thank you. In the context of excise policy, it is considered first that, if there is a harmful product and it is intended to reduce its consumption, it will be subject to excise duty (which is not in any way in line with this draft). When this bill was handed over, one of the reasons for bringing excise duty to zero for two years was the border trade in Latvia, where nicotine liquids have been taxed and nicotine-free liquids have not been taxed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U94	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what the optimal rate of excise duty on tobacco liquid is. But in the Commission, I proposed that this debate be turned into this. And I thought we had a compromise, but now I'm startled to see that everything is the same. I'm saying this thing stinks. This thing smells a lot worse than tobacco. It smells like stupidity and something else, especially after I found out that a particular non-profit who's been lobbying here is gonna get the rooftop money. It's disgusting. Any excise duty rates have always been transparent when they pass some sort of coordination round. It's handled by officials who really share. These officials were very sour-faced in the Commission, and it was very difficult for them to get such a free debate. But that thing got scrambled. We hear such talk from the chairman of the committee that, no, there is no need to discuss it with doctors here, it is an excise policy. Are you kidding me? Why are we discussing tobacco excise with doctors? Why are we discussing alcohol excise with doctors? Who, then, should we discuss the taxation of health-damaging goods, if not with doctors? We've never done this before, maybe we didn't set the right rates. But then we have to prove it, prove it, and discuss it. At the time, we also had a head of the pulmonary team of pulmonary surgeons in the room, and I believe that there was a misunderstanding of his place, and he proved to us that any of these words, I don't know, vaping or what they are, nice poetry, are harmful to the lungs. Maybe it's overruled, but you could've asked the doctors. We're told no, there's an accent these doctors know. I listened to it, and I was just wondering. We had some seven lobbyists there, with lobbyists' views seeming to be much more polite than the content of this draft. Zero for two years. I don't know why. A good that is considered to be harmful to health, we're going to zero the excise duty. Where did this legal practice come from? Where are these analyses that there's now some kind of disaster, exactly the kind of words used there, and the excise duty of this commodity must be set at zero? Where did you get that idea? When have we ever done something like this before? I have also asked the chairman of the committee to explain where the volumes are, where there are the problems with the volume of border trade, where the volume of the black market is. Those words were used by lobbyists there too. Yeah. [[Laughing.]] And brought in a single I didn't get any numbers, I didn't get them from the committee chairman today, I asked them several times. He was joking on the remote. Maybe I've missed something because I've really missed a committee meeting, but then he could have shown me that he knows something, that he cares about something. A completely analytical draft, a very important fact to it, it was clear to us at the Commission meeting: Latvia will increase the excise duty on these liquids. What's left? Black market? Border trade? Which one? In the current situation, border trade is not well believed. The black market, tell me the volume! But in our estimates, we heard that the situation was catastrophic. I don't see it. I think that there is no disaster in Estonia with e-cigarettes or anything like that. I think there are other disasters. But three coalition parties suddenly pass by specialists and present such a thing, but do not provide any data. I understand those who, as a market participant, want a low excise duty. But dealing with this bill really makes you smell so bad, we stop it, we interrupt it. And on behalf of my group, I will also put forward a corresponding proposal in writing, and it will be on my desk, I will bring it right now. Let's hear from the doctors, discuss what is the optimal rate and what is it going to be the lobbyist for the roof money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U96	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U97	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, As early as 2019, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed and discussed tobacco liquids on several occasions. However, this is not a major social policy change; it is not a crisis measure. But we have done this thoroughly, because some of the sector's representatives really want products containing nicotine and without nicotine to be taxed differently. We have discussed the example of Latvia, how the determination of nicotine levels takes place in practice, how expensive it is, whether it makes administrative sense and what to do when all tobacco liquids suddenly appear on the market without nicotine and who determines this nicotine concentration [or not]. In February 2020, the Ministry of Finance prepared an analysis to look at such potential tax alternatives. Five different scenarios were put in place to address this situation. There was a relatively broad consensus in the Commission on how to proceed. But surprisingly, on 3 June 2020, coalition parties launched a draft order to suspend the collection of excise duties on tobacco fluid for two years. Halt excise duty collection, i.e. the elimination of excise duty on nicotine-containing and non-nicotine-containing tobacco liquids. This scenario did not exist in the analysis of the Ministry of Finance and this scenario has not been discussed directly by the Commission either. There was no member of the Commission who in the past would have expressed support for the abolition of excise duty. On the basis of the analysis by the Ministry of Finance, preferences emerged as to whether the situation would be maintained or indeed reduced evenly to all the excise duties on tobacco liquids, as the suspension of taxation takes the opportunity to influence consumer behaviour through price. The objective of suspending the collection of excise duties on tobacco fluid was also questioned. Its objective is to control border trade and the secret market. We don't have an overview of the secret market right now. There will be no such overview, there will be no such information in a year and a half, no such obligation will be imposed on anyone. But after the abolition of excise duty, we also lose sight of the legal market, we also do not know who, what and how much is sold to. In the Commission's discussions it remained that, in the case of the secret market, the secret market price is actually going to be correlated with the price of the legal market. If the price increases in a legal market, the price will also rise in the secret market, and vice versa if the price falls in the legal market, then the price will also fall in the secret market. What is its health effect? The Commission unanimously expressed its doubts as to why the abolition of excise duty would be fixed-term. Is this a crisis measure? No, it's not. What is the objective of abolishing this short-term excise duty? What will change after a year and a half that suddenly makes sense to re-establish a high excise duty? There will also be a situation where nicotine-containing liquids can now be used tax-free. Nicotine as an addictive substance. Members of the Commission asked why we encourage the consumption of nicotine-containing products. The chairman of the committee, Aivar Kokk, also asked the representative of the initiator of the draft, whether the previous discussions had talked about a much lower level, which would not depend on nicotine content, and whether the abolition of excise duty had been the subject of previous discussions. This caused even the chairman of the committee to be surprised. And meeting interest groups. As Jürgen Ligi said nicely, it is really clear that e-cigarette fluid sellers want the lowest possible excise duty. Absolutely understandable. However, stakeholders also said that they actually wanted a long-term solution and a uniform low rate. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U98	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U99	Actually, there were some concerns. The question [was] left unanswered as to whether this is State aid if we lose excise duty on only one alternative tobacco product but continue to tax on others. In two years' time, or almost two years' time, how will the actual recovery of excise duty be resolved? When excise duties were applied on alternative tobacco products, a transitional period of three months was granted, but at present there is no separate transitional period in the draft. There is no understanding of how the transition to the introduction of excise duty will take place again. It turned out that in the case of the abolition of excise duty, we are losing sight of the market for e-liquids. But a uniform, lower taxation would also ensure that data on the market is obtained. And the fact that Latvia has now decided to increase excise duty. It has already been through the discussions here several times. The Merchants' Association has repeatedly called on the Committee on Monetary Affairs to see that a lower excise duty for an indefinite period would, in their opinion, be the preferred option for both sellers and consumers. Therefore, I think it is a big question who wants this draft in this form if, in the discussions of the previous year and a half, the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the chairman of the committee have not actually expressed their support for this solution. This solution has not been analysed by the Ministry of Finance; officials do not support it. The Traders' Association also expresses a misunderstanding as to why the abolition of excise duty is going forward, if market participants would actually see a long-term solution rather than the temporary abolition of excise duty. Where does the idea come from, which should be the expected impact, and why are we proceeding with such a draft? As all this is confusing, the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to suspend the procedure at second reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Isamaa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U100	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U101	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good guardians of the Republic! We have experienced quite a strong and discerning deficit of truth here. Just for the sake of history, we could talk about a former minister who personally supported the introduction of heated tobacco products into the market, but his officials did not support it by coming to the meeting of the Commission and saying that the Ministry has changed its position. The document signed by this minister is still in the books of the Finance Committee, and the official who crossed his jurisdiction is still a top official, but that's what it is. Let's say if there's a real battle, there's no choice. Today we are talking about Estonia being the third largest in Europe in terms of tobacco deaths. Today we are talking about how it would be possible to reduce the damage caused by tobacco in some other way. With different drafts, we have always hit a wall that says that it is not believed that alternative tobacco products are 95% safer. Now we're talking about this excise duty today. I would remind you that when there was a reduction of half, 50% on the table, so that one milliliter would be taxed by 10 cents, the first signal came from the Ministry of Finance, and it was Deputy Chancellor Egorov who said that in this case excise duty would not be needed, because collecting it is more costly than the excise duty received. We are talking today about the loss of border trade if Latvia arrives where Estonia is. Border trade with Latvia has not disappeared either at this moment, nor in relation to alcohol or building materials, because people have this habit. But we're talking about the black market here today. I have a bottle that can be obtained from different stores, and it costs 15 euros. And if it were loaded with excise duty, it would cost 255 euros. EUR 15 versus EUR 255. Is it the border trade or our own excise policy? Yes, Latvia sold this liquid at EUR 15 because they saw that it was not feasible to [burden it with excise duty]. However, we in Estonia put excise duty on it, which means that it is not sold in special stores. Consequently, a product which is in cross-use will also be used in a very large number of markets. It is our wish, as members of the smoke-free Estonian Support Group, that tobacco quitters be able to gain confidence and advice from these specialised shops. Now the question was, where did the idea of stopping excise duty for two years come from? That's what came from this analysis. Firstly, if the collection of this excise duty is more costly or, let's say, it is more expensive to process than the revenue received, then it could be lost. Secondly, the idea came that the sector would have confidence if tobacco quitters returned to special shops so that customers could find that way there, it would be a two-year excise leave. How many of these drafts have we made, where we have given priority to the sector that has been hit, precisely in order for the sector to get back on its feet. But we forget that there are consumers here. We are never talking about the interests of consumers, but we are talking about how merchants see things differently at the moment. And here's a big difference: here in the hall, the experience talks, the ministries speak of competence. And I think there's actually a pretty big difference between competence and experience. Because competent people speak exactly what is needed. If it is necessary to prove today that this bottle is actually a little taxed, that EUR 255 is bad, I can bring in another country, for example, EUR 500, then I think the official could make it clear. In this hall, however, there is experience, life experience, many people here know what tobacco addiction is, and they understand that "Leave it!" Doesn't work. In case people have found... I'd like three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U102	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U103	Thanks! If we want to talk more about excise leave and whether there is a need to talk to the Committee on Social Affairs, then I have also been to the Committee on Social Affairs. I have also been in the Committee on Monetary Affairs with this bottle, and I remember this general arrogant attitude from those people who said today that they do not understand a hat. You don't realize if you don't actually listen, if you think you're the star smart guy, because you're the most competent, experienced, and all that you discovered yourself. The goal is this, and I believe that every person has the right to receive a high-quality and already laboratory-confirmed and tested liquid in order to reduce the damage caused by tobacco. The story that we do not know today how much something is sold [it] could even be known by the officials of the Ministry of Finance that, in fact, all e-cigarette stores have a duty to give a monthly overview to the Tax and Customs Board. The way a very competent official claims that we will no longer receive any information is surprising. Unlike ministry officials, today's coalition has experience, and they have actually seen this mad struggle for human health. That is perhaps what unites this coalition, but not perhaps any other coalitions who found that the more we tax alternative tobacco producers, the more we can do to give priority to conventional tobacco, because ordinary tobacco can now be obtained from any kiosk, but we are hindering alternative tobacco products. We've already broken one wall, it's heated tobacco products. Tomorrow should be available for sale in Estonia if someone has informed themselves, but the law states that tobacco products that are heated from 16 December should be available for sale. Nicotine pillows are already on sale, and unfortunately, the last one is in the situation that it is still unregulated. And here smoke-free Estonia says that 25 mg nicotine is reasonable, but we have 50 mg on the market today and we have 100 mg on the market today. The competent officials don't know that, but now the experienced officials know that. Let us trust our instincts, let us trust our workmates. We'll do the right thing, straighten your back one day. Our voters need a decent life. Smoke-free Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U104	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U105	Dear President-in-Office and ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't have come here otherwise, but one of the previous speakers complained that it must have smelled awful. I came to see if it really smells so bad in here. I don't feel it. I don't feel like it stinks in here. [[There's something going on in the hall.]] Please? Corona? I don't know. Corona doesn't stink to my knowledge. There's no smell in the Corona, yes, but I smell really good, I smell really good. I went to the cafeteria and it smelled really good. So don't blame me for the corona. I'm fine as a bat and I have a bat in my pocket. What did I really want to tell you? I wanted to remember a little bit about childhood. My, I could say, the second home town was not Tallinn, but Riga. And since we were talking about border trade here, I can say that there was border trade in Soviet times too, because we always drove from Pärnu when we wanted to buy something, Riga, because in Riga the range of goods was significantly larger, the Latvian industry produced much more goods than the Estonian industry. Latvian country shops were much better equipped than Estonian country shops. It was worth a ride to Latvia, and it was also a border trade. And when people talk about border trade today, the logic of people's behaviour is exactly the same: they drive to where it is cheaper and where there is a greater choice of goods. Now we're getting to excise duty. Let's just remember some recent history. Let us recall how here the members of the group under the window and the average members of the political group told us during the previous Riigikogu how good and necessary it was and how useful it was for the country to increase the various excise duties. How it was supposed to be good for people's health, especially when they smell gasoline, and how it was supposed to be very useful for the Estonian state budget and the Estonian economy. Well, it wasn't useful, it wasn't useful at all, and it didn't help the fight against alcoholism or the fight against tobacco trouble or anything else. By the way, we can do a little across the bay across Finland and ask, is there now less drinking between Finland and Estonia by the end of border trade? No, it's not. No, it's not. And in Finland, such a nice word as drunkenness or drinking in your underwear, or how to translate it accurately, has even come into use. That people behave as they behave and act in accordance with their pragmatic logic. When we are talking about this specific draft and the reduction of certain excise duties, there is a question here about why this deadline is there. The deadline is very logical there. We will not stone anything, we will see if this fall will work in practice, what its practical results will be, the consequences for the state budget, people's behaviour, border trade, and in a year and a half we will be able to make a correction. It's a wholesome, pragmatic behaviour, but not in a way that I don't know how many hundreds of percent we're gradually running out of excise duty, making all the goods more expensive, launching mad columns of vodka and tobacco and I don't know what else and saying that ups went wrong, but now there's nothing left to do. We're not acting like this, we're acting a little more cautiously, rationally, pragmatically, and I think it's the coalition that separates us... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U106	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U107	... from past government administration and practice in government administration. We can remember here, and I remembered very much, I remembered very much during the previous Riigikogu, when the Reform Party fell into opposition and we tried to launch this kind of cooperation between opposition parties. It didn't work out because the representatives of the Reform Party thought that this cooperation was a matter of their bossy. Well, with this bill, we will do this, with this bill, no, there is nothing to talk about, here we are pushing through these amendments, etc. Come on, what are you kidding me? That's not how it works! That is not the way it works, and the other political parties, the other political groups are not under your authority. Here are the various groups with their various mandates and interests. It's that simple. And then there's more. And then there's more. It is loved to say that we are experiencing an economic crisis and a health crisis, a health crisis, and that is true. The economic crisis, of course, is not only characteristic of Estonia, but it is considerably wider, and it is also pandemic. In this situation, we need to look at the end of our economy, which has a positive impact on our economy's competitiveness. There is no doubt that the competitive price of certain strategically important economic inputs is critical for the economy. This is a completely different attitude from what we saw during the previous economic crisis. I've already read, this morning the press has been drooling about how the recession is 1.9%. It is foolish to say that this is a pleasant surprise for us, but I recall that during the previous economic crisis, the recession was 19%. And people began to flee from Estonia on a massive basis. Right now, people don't run off on a massive scale, even coming back. And the recession is only 1.9%, I think it is the result of our intelligent decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U108	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U109	Thank you! It would be interesting to know, Mr Helme, if you would like to clarify what kind of industrial input is an e-cigarette liquid, which a reduction in excise duty would help us get the economy going. But most of why this is a thoughtless legislative proposal, which also stinks, although Mr Helme did not detect this smell for any reason, I would draw attention to only one fact. In the context of quitting smoking, these lobbyists and their representatives speak of e-cigarettes as a means of quitting smoking, as an alternative to nicotine replacement therapy, which traditionally comes in the form of patches or candy or gums. And indeed, there are some places, in some countries, such as Great Britain, to which the same representatives also draw attention to studies carried out, which show that, if using e-cigarette is accompanied by face-to-face counselling, it can have better results for certain people than traditional nicotine replacement therapy. It's true. However, in the end, the main addictive substance is nicotine, and very many people who take e-cigarette do not actually stop smoking. They either don't want it or they can't do it. This person, who has now left the hall, I remember, used to blame me for the way I've been seen on the smoke balcony, but he's been smoking e-cigarette for years. Well, I don't smoke anything for two years, but he's still going around the Riigikogu with some kind of bottle. So much for the efficiency of the opt-out alternatives. But that's not what I wanted to mention. I wanted to add one very important aspect that is rarely noticed in this discussion. Millions of people are starting with nicotine addiction over the last decade in e-cigarettes. They do not switch from tobacco to e-cigarette as a less dangerous means of quitting, but they start with e-cigarettes. We're talking about young people. Falling into e-cigarettes for young people is undoubtedly easier and more attractive. In many countries there are fewer regulations, in Estonia so far we have said that we treat all nicotine products in the same way. In this respect, dilutions have been made, as has already been the case here, during this government, but in very many countries, in fact, this regulation of e-cigarette is more lenient. This means that there are different flavors, smells, more attractive and, of course, very important, which is once again known from experience by all those who, as a minor, are not caught by a parent with an e-cigarette. This is currently actually an epidemic spread in Estonian schools. You have to know it's like this. Now, here's the question. You might think that maybe they'll spend their lives smoking e-cigarettes and it's better if they smoke e-cigarettes all their lives than if they smoke regular smokes. This may be the case, but we don't know how many of them are going through normal smoke at one point, and that's how we create a situation where e-cigarette becomes an entry route to a highly addictive substance called nicotine for young people. Is it finally going so-and-so globally? However, long-term studies have not been carried out at the moment, as e-cigarette is not sufficient. And consequently, it would be reasonable to take the precautionary principle into account. I would, however, try to reduce health damage to a maximum extent. In this time of government, we've gone the other way. There has also been talk of all kinds of stupid talk about how it will get the economy going. But in the field of health, there has been a risk and even without considering these risks, as we have heard, because there is no measure that could measure this success. For example, whether traditional smoking is being reduced as a result of this measure, no one has actually analysed it. And how could this happen in a situation where health experts are not really involved in this debate? So a bad suggestion is on your conscience. Power!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U110	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. There is also one amendment to the draft. It has been presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendment, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 207, but the Group of the Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party have proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft 207, and we are going to the vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Social Democratic Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U111	41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 50 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The draft will remain open and the second reading will be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U112	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on! Today's fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Credit Institutions initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Eerik-Niiles Kross, Mart Võrklaadi, Annely Akkermanni, Heiki Kranich, Valdo Randpere, Taavi Rõivas, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Vilja Toomasti, Kalle Laaneti, Erkki Keldo, Johannes Kerdi, Andrus Seeme, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Signe Kivi and Jüri Jaanson. I ask Eerik-Niles Kross, a member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U113	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Our bill, perhaps read by some, is based on two assumptions. First of all, in order to function legally and legally in today's Estonian society, both a natural and legal person must have a bank account, i.e. a bank account. There are a number of laws that make cashless settlement mandatory. It is clearly not possible to engage in entrepreneurship if the company does not have a bank account in Estonia. As a result, the Supreme Court has repeatedly reached decisions according to which banking services are treated as vital services in Estonia. If we look at banking services as a vital service in the same way as the provision of Internet services or electricity and water to people, it means that credit institutions must not treat the principle of freedom of contract that they are currently using in relation to their potential customers completely freely. There's no way the bank's gonna say I'm picking a client in my face and I don't like this person for any reason, and I'm not signing a contract with him. Similarly, such behaviour cannot be tolerated by Eesti Energia or any other electricity supplier or mobile service provider. The Committee on Monetary Affairs stated that this is the way the problem exists in Estonian banking. Banks have also started to throw out a child with washing water in connection with the investigation of money laundering and the tightening of regulation, because, as they say, the Financial Supervision Authority has been very close to the banks. Banks are cheaper and easier to give up their customers than to look into their background. But this unfortunately puts persons and companies in a position where they can no longer function in Estonian society. With this draft we propose the possibility of bringing banking practice into line with the laws and decisions of the Supreme Court in force in Estonia and of ensuring the provision of vital services to persons in the banking sector as well. There were questions about what this means, that persons should be guaranteed service. We have a law that says what a vital service is. This does not mean that all banking services must be provided on a compulsory basis. Of course, there is no obligation for banks to grant loans or offer any specific investment services. However, this means opening a current account, making payments through it, including card payments, making cash contributions to the current account and withdrawing cash from the current account. They are qualified for vital services. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic has found that this bill does not deserve to be adopted and has recommended that it be expelled. I urge everyone to think that if we recognise the existence of a problem, it is always possible to propose amendments during the procedure. In this case, I would treat this draft as an offer of such initial legal protection for Estonian citizens and Estonian companies against a certain act of arbitrary banking. We're open for negotiation. Maybe someone has better ideas on how to deal with the situation. But I haven't met anyone in this house, at least not with colleagues, who would find that closing bank accounts has not gone too far in Estonia. There is a problem, so we will find a solution to this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U114	Thank you. Honourable waitress, there are also questions for you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U115	Thank you. Good waitress! I have this question that you said in your own words that the bank should not choose the face of whom to serve or not. Understood, understood. However, the wording of this legislative amendment itself makes it very clear that a credit institution is free to decide who to serve and who not to serve. How's that going to add up? That's one. Secondly, does non-residents refer only to natural persons or to legal persons? And the third thing is that the non-resident can actually also be an Estonian resident. Are they gonna stay out?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U116	Thank you. The law currently in force gives the bank full freedom of choice precisely in relation to Estonian citizens, residents and legal persons in Estonia. However, this change would leave freedom of choice for non-residents [only]. If any foreigner comes to the Estonian bank, the bank is free to say whether or not he wants to sign a contract with him. However, he does not have full freedom of contract with Paul Puustusmaa. These are non-residents who remain in [freedom of contract]. Residents, citizens would no longer qualify. You had a second question, didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U117	Paul Woodland, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U118	Thank you very much. I stress once again that a non-resident may also be an Estonian resident. Would they also be part of the bank's free choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U119	No, a non-resident cannot be an Estonian resident. We are talking about persons who have a residence permit, who live legally here, who live in Estonia. We don't know the difference. Just as the Constitution and other laws offer equal guarantees, health care, etc. to all residents of Estonia, banking services should be guaranteed to citizens and non-citizens, or residents, but not non-residents. We cannot defend the right of non-residents to enter into an agreement with the Estonian bank; it is not the competence of the Estonian legislator. This is where we have to protect the rights of the bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U120	Thank you. No further questions for you. I now ask Dmitri Dmitriyev, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this bill on Monday, 23 November. The committee was invited by the representative of the initiators of the draft, member of the Riigikogu Eerik-Niles Kross, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance Toomas Honourable and Chief Specialist Kätlin Meekler and Adviser to the Department of Enterprise and Accounting Policy Sören Meius. The representative of the Ministry of Finance indeed stated that the Government of the Republic supported the purpose of the draft, but did not support the draft in its proposed form. The Ministry of Finance was instructed to develop an appropriate bill. The Ministry understands the relevance of the problem and considers it necessary to ensure that the proposed amendments comply with both the current law on credit institutions and other legislation, in particular the provisions on the prevention of money laundering. Speaking of the debate in the Commission, Jürgen Ligi, for example, commented that he did not support this draft because the anti-money laundering rules put responsibility on the bank and the bank has to carry out a risk-based analysis. In order to prepare the new draft, the Financial Supervision Authority should certainly also be invited by the Commission to listen to its recommendations to the banks. Andres Sutt also agreed that the Commission should be invited to the Financial Inspectorate and heard their opinion. Dmitri Dmitriev partly agreed with the initiators that the problem really exists and still remains unresolved, and drew their attention to the fact that some of the draft provisions in the second wording are already in the law. Rather, it is necessary to analyse how well or poorly these rules introduced into the law work and to come back to this issue later with the Financial Supervision Authority, the Ministry of Finance and, if necessary, the initiators of the current draft. To conclude, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 8 December (consensually), that Dmitri Dmitrijev (consensually) be appointed as member of the commission and that the draft be rejected (by 6 members of the Commission, with one abstention). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U122	Eerik-Niles Kross, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U123	More like an upgrade. In the Commission, we were talking about changes that came into force in the spring or summer as if they would solve this problem. What changed in the Credit Institutions Act in July? The change is, right, that the bank now has to give some reasons for closing accounts. However, on the basis of the freedom of contract, it still has the right to close accounts, so that this [amendment] was more of such a cosmetic. The test was carried out in the right direction, but there is no improvement in this change. That's what the coalition seems to agree with. We need to get back to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U124	We did indeed point out that the proposed draft asks for the addition of § 89 91 and § 92, which already exist. Indeed, in the framework of the AML/CFT Act adopted in June and the Act amending other laws, § 7 was amended by the Credit Institutions Act: § 89 was already supplemented by paragraphs 91 and 92, according to which the credit institution must justify the refusal or cancellation of the payment service contract to the person. If the infringement has occurred, the injured party shall be compensated by the [credit institution] for the damage caused unlawfully. But indeed, in the Commission too, it was said that perhaps these provisions would not work as efficiently as they could. In this sense everyone agreed that the draft, as it was drafted, did not fit, and had to be proposed to reject it. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance has been given a specific mandate to develop a draft to solve the problem raised by the initiators, which actually exists. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U125	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm a little confused about [this situation]. It turns out from your report that the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs are admitting that the problem persists. We also hear from the field or from the outside that there is still a problem with closing or not opening accounts. The Ministry of Finance has allegedly been given the task of providing its own solutions. Why, however, must this draft be excluded from the procedure? Why can't we go ahead with this bill? The members of the Riigikogu could make suggestions on this, and the Ministry of Finance could also come forward with proposals on this subject. The problem is on the table and we're moving towards a solution. A message has also been sent outside that the Riigikogu is dealing with this; people can make proposals through the MPs, speak with them. For what reason does this draft still have to be excluded from the procedure? Why can't the Riigikogu continue to deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U127	Thank you for your question. In fact, I have already said, in essence, from the point of view of both the Ministry and the Commission, why such a proposal, which I think was suitable for all parties, has come. When we are talking about this draft, which has been submitted by 15 members of the Reform Party Group, we cannot quite honestly supplement paragraphs 91 and 92 of § 89 of the Act, as they already exist in the law. These provisions must also be consistent with the anti-money laundering regulations, as I said earlier. Almost all members of the Commission, including those representing the Reform Party Group, agreed that this issue should be discussed more widely with the Financial Supervision Authority in the framework of this draft, which is now being developed by the Ministry of Finance, certainly taking into account the objective set by the initiators of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U128	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. It is possible to open negotiations, but there is no wish to participate in the negotiations either. No amendments have been proposed to this draft. We have a Commission proposal 248 to reject at first reading, and it must now be voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Committee on Monetary Affairs to reject the draft tabled by 248 members of the Riigikogu at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U129	48 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of this proposal and 21 members of the Riigikogu were against it. The draft has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U130	The next item is the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, initiated by Mr Raimond Kaljulaiu, Group of the Social Democratic Party and member of the Riigikogu 249. Let's start reading it first. I would like a member of the Riigikogu, Lauri Läänemets, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U131	Ladies and gentlemen, With this draft, we wish to amend § 128 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. In addition to the fact that, in order to decide on another matter of state life, a draft decision must be initiated, the answer of which can be 'yes' or 'no', we wish to include in this paragraph the addition 'and the question must not concern amendments to the Constitution or any other law'. The Constitution provides for the possibility of holding a referendum, and a referendum can also change the Constitution. But there is a consequence: if the draft does not receive a majority from the people, there will be new Riigikogu elections, the parliament will disband. The Constitution also allows other draft laws to be put into the referendum, and it will have the same effect: if the people do not support the draft law put to the vote, Parliament will disband and new elections will come. The Constitution also provides an opportunity to hold a referendum on another matter of state life. For example, people may be asked whether a nuclear plant should be made in Estonia or whether more or less forests should be cut, and other important issues of this kind, and the [answers received] have a duty to take account of these questions. The point of the Constitution is that issues with draft laws or the power of the bill must be put to a referendum in such a way that they also involve the responsibility of the Riigikogu. If the people do not approve, Parliament will disband. We would like the idea of the Constitution, according to which, as a matter of other state life, draft laws cannot be put to the vote, so that the meaning of the Constitution is not passed through the back door, to be clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. If the bill is put to the vote and the people vote for it, it is the will of the people and the proposal will come into force immediately, the President will announce it. There's no other way. However, now that a question equivalent to a bill or draft law is put to a referendum as a matter of other state life, it happens that it cannot enter into force immediately [as a law]. The people say their opinion, their will, whatever it is, but it has no immediate power to become a law. Public authorities should initiate some kind of change according to how the people have wanted it. But the Constitution says that a member of the Riigikogu is free in his mandate. No one in this House can force him to vote against his will. Even if people have said one thing under the question of other state life in referendums, unfortunately, a member of the Riigikogu cannot be told that you must now vote the same way and make [the will of the people] the law. That's gonna be a really stupid situation. There will be a situation where the people have expressed their will, but this will may not come into force in any way. It's nothing more than fooling people, fooling people: you tell them that, well, friends, now is your chance to say your opinion, but there's nothing to follow. That is, very briefly, the whole point of our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U132	Thank you very much, dear waitress. You have questions too. Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I have this question: how do you define freedom? It's just interesting to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U134	I'm sorry, but I don't see any reason to start defining freedom. This is nothing to do with our bill. We do not intend to regulate in any way what freedom is or how freedoms are used, nor do we intend to restrict freedom. So I'm not gonna answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U135	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U136	Thank you very much. Good waitress! Can you explain why you have chosen this path to amend the Home and Working Procedures Act if we have a referendum law that says very specifically through § 1 that you can put the law to the vote, the Constitution everything can be put to the vote. Now you want to bring a contradiction to the Home and Working Procedures Act, so that law would say one thing, but the referendum law would say another thing. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U137	Thank you. If you keep reading the referendum law, I can't remember the article by heart, then the referendum law says that all the so-called voting processes are laid down in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. That is why our proposal is to change exactly where it should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U138	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I listened to your view that the people say that they want to do the same, but Lauri Western Forests, as a representative of the people, says that she is free to vote and that she absolutely does not give a shit about the result of the referendum. I would remind you that according to § 1 of the Act on the Status of Members of the Riigikogu, you are the representative of the entire Estonian people. Maybe let's just say you're authorized. The people who are delegates always have the primary right to give you instructions and guidance. So in that case, you have to do exactly as the people you're actually representing would do. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U140	Thank you. I hope that we all make our decisions here the way people want and the way they benefit. Look, good Kalle, if, for example, we happen to have a referendum and people say in answer to another question of state life that same-sex marriage should somehow be legalized, I don't know, I haven't heard you'd be willing to vote for it here. And it is not really a question of whether or not to listen to the will of the people. I think we all have to do this, and you definitely have to do it. The question is rather that, if we really want people to say what their will is, and if it is to enter into force as a law, there are very specific rules of play in this regard in the Constitution. This means that if you want people to say one thing, two or three, or approve or not, you will put this particular bill to a vote and people will go and vote. If the draft is voted in favour of a majority, it is automatically adopted as a law. There's no question. It doesn't have to come to this hall. There will be questions in this hall that need to be more difficult to think about. But if we really want people's opinion to become a law, then in the spirit of the Constitution, it must be put to the vote as a draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U141	Paul Woodland, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U142	Good Lauri! Do you realize that the flaw you want to overcome with your bill is now being realized by your own bill? Perhaps what I want to say is that, as a member of the Constitutional Committee, § 105 of the Constitutional Treaty, you know that But you want to say with the amendment to the Home and Working Procedures Act that you can't do that. Aren't you going against the Constitution here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U143	Thank you. If you look at this bill, you will see that we are not restricting the organisation of the other issue of state life [a referendum]. We are also without prejudice and cannot restrict the holding of a referendum for the adoption of a draft law or for the amendment of the constitution. We're not gonna do that. We are simply saying what is the meaning of the Constitution: draft laws cannot be put to the vote as a matter of other state life. That's the point of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U144	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U145	Thank you. I guess before Urmas Espenberg asked what freedom was, and you didn't answer him. I thought I'd help you or Urmas. But maybe I'm not helping either, just showing you my knowledge. Once, freedom was defined as a sense of inevitability, which means that when you were forced to do something, but you felt you had to do it, you were free. When society developed a little bit, one word was added to the definition and it was said that it has been overcome by a sense of inevitability: if you have overcome the feeling of compulsion and then you do what you have to, then you are free. But today, the most classic and most reasonable way to define freedom as a choice. So, you're welcome or you mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U147	Kalle Grünthal, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am, frankly, puzzled by the draft you have tabled, because in fact you yourself have said the answer to this situation. If the people express their views on a matter and it is through a referendum, then in fact, that decision is also mandatory for you. You are no longer free in your decisions here, because the same decision that the people made is mandatory for the public authorities. This means that you, as a member of the Riigikogu, and the Riigikogu are also connected with the declaration of the will of the people, and you do not really have a free mandate when voting on this matter. It's inevitable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U149	Thank you, Kalle! The meaning of the Constitution is very clear, and when you read the executive edition of the Constitution, it also specifies it. I gave an example here of whether the forest should be cut more or less. Yes, with this question, if the people say that you cut more or cut less, that answer is indeed mandatory for [state bodies]. As regards the adoption of a draft law or the amendment of the law, the point of the Constitution is that it can still be put to a referendum, but not to other matters of state life. That is what we want to clarify in the Home and Working Procedures Act, so that there is no situation where people are fooling around that, yes, people are going to vote and say their opinion, but in the end, nothing will change. Kalle, if you have some kind of good idea to ask for in a referendum or some sort of wish to change by referendum in the law, it is very simple. You write one, two or three sections for this, we have rules of procedure for this, we put it to a referendum, and people can vote and say whether they agree that there will be such an paragraph in the law, or they do not agree that there will be such an paragraph in the law. If people say they do not agree, Parliament will disband. That's the point of the Constitution. And it is precisely in initiating drafts that [it is important] that such broad-based decisions are not taken and that politically referendums are not used to fool people and, secondly, to manipulate them, that we put some kind of question, some kind of amendment to the law to a vote somewhere, and now we can make a lot of noise and noise around it and talk some of our messages, but in fact there are no consequences. Yes, the law states that if a bill is put to the vote, it will always have a consequence. If there is a 'no', Parliament will disband. This is because things are not put to a referendum. If we play with referendums and people's trust, the result is that trust in the state institutions, the Riigikogu and democracy at all will be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U150	Urmas Espenberg, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U151	I didn't get an answer last time, but Valdo helped you. So I'm going to ask you a simpler question. You said the ambassador was free to make his own decisions. What do you mean? What do you mean, free?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U152	I was talking about the dilemma that arises from what is written in the Constitution. The Constitution says that you, me, no matter who people are free to vote in this Chamber, no one can oblige you to vote in one way or another. There's nothing to do. This constitution has been drawn up once, its constitution has been approved by the Estonian people and it is the will of the Estonian people. I think it is very important that what the people of Estonia say in this Constitution that is in force today, we also follow in this Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U153	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U154	Good manager! Good waitress! I hope you've read the executive version of this law, including pages 396, 397 and 398. This proposal, as it were with an axe, is that we take and cut our happiness by taking or adding something from this section. My question is whether, in 2003, when the Home and Rules of Procedure Act was passed and Toomas Savi of the Reform Party, the President of the Riigikogu, announced it, this topic had not been discussed and the law was not balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U155	Thank you. I think that every time decisions are made in this Chamber, at least for the most part, I hope, things have been discussed and are trying to anticipate everything. But as it turns out, it's not possible to predict everything. I'll give you one simple example right here, the pension reform that was made. We have already dealt with drafts in the Chamber that will improve this reform, because everything could not be foreseen at the same time. I have also discussed this issue of [vote] with those who were members of the Constitutional Assembly and were at the stage of drafting the constitution that is currently in force. They say that very, very much was the subject of the public poll, but that someone could go in through the back door like this and put the bill to the vote on the other matter of state life, it really wasn't possible to see it in that form.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U156	Thank you very much. No more questions, dear waitress, for you. I would like to ask the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Anti-Poland Forest, as the second rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U157	Honourable Vice President! Good ambassadors! The preparation for the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu was held at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 24 November. The initiator's representative here gave a pretty good overview of his views, which is why I will focus on the discussion and the questions that were put to the initiator. The discussion was meaningful. Attention was given to the consistency of the draft with the Constitution, as well as the differences between the referendum and the vote on the draft law and the question of the binding and compulsory nature of the referendum. Kaja Kallas felt that if a question were to be put to a referendum that would change the law, it would have to be put to the vote as a draft law. If the people do not support it, the result is that the Riigikogu disbands itself. However, if you put another matter of state life into a referendum, this will not be the result of the 'no' of the people. Kallas felt that, according to the Constitution, the result of the referendum was binding on the national authorities, which also means that, if, for example, the Constitution or other law has been amended in a referendum, it should not be changed in any other way at a later stage than in a referendum. Mr Läänemets agreed that the result of the referendum would be binding. But he felt that the binding result of the referendum could not oblige the Member to vote like this later in the Riigikogu. Mr Läänemets explained that he felt that the referendum should not be given the kind of questions that, as a result of the referendum, create a situation from which no further progress can be made. The Western Forest said that if the people have changed the constitution, then in his opinion the Riigikogu can change it back later. According to the opinion of the Läänemetsa, the Riigikogu has the right to amend the Constitution, even if the people have decided differently in advance. Kaja Kallas explained that the question could not be put to a referendum in any other way than according to the procedure laid down in the Constitution. His opinion is that there is a difference between the draft law and the other question of state life when reading the constitutional comments. If the people do not support the draft law put to the referendum, it will lead to extraordinary elections in the Riigikogu, but if the people do not support any other issue of state life, it will not lead to extraordinary elections. Mr Pevkur referred in his speech to the debates on the referendum held by the Constitutional Assembly. In his opinion, amendments to the Constitution or other law, which the people either support or do not support in the referendum, could be put to the referendum. One such example has been the draft law supplementing the Constitution, which concerned Estonia's accession to the European Union. Secondly, according to Pevkur, another issue of state life can be put to a referendum which is currently not regulated by law. The public's answer to such a question is mandatory for public authorities to comply with. In Pevkur's view, it is a concern that the draft proposed wishes to amend [the Constitution] by amending the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Lauri Läänemets replied that the draft did not recommend a change in the Constitution. Lauri Läänemets asked whether other laws could not be changed back later by referendum. For example, if the referendum decides to amend the family law, is it not possible to change it back in the Riigikogu later? In Pevkur's opinion, the procedure is that if, in a referendum, the people say something that is not written in the law today, it is binding on the Riigikogu and the state institutions. [The people's decision] must then be incorporated into the law and can only be amended in a referendum. Hanno Pevkur also explained that since the Constitution states that a referendum can be called into another matter of state life, it cannot be narrowed down by the law of the Riigikogu on home and working procedures, stating that one or the other issue cannot be put to a referendum as a matter of other state life. The restrictions are already in the Constitution. According to Pevkur, it is theoretically possible to put other state life into a referendum, for example, on whether a song festival should take place every five years. If the people respond 'yes', the law will not be amended, but it will be a principle adopted in the referendum and therefore binding on all public bodies. In Pevkur's opinion, in the case of two referendums scheduled for 2021, the public's 'yes' response in this sense is binding on the Riigikogu that in this case the corresponding provision of the Family Act cannot be amended. If there is a need to reverse the 'yes' response, the same question must be put back to the referendum. At the meeting of the Commission, Kalle Grünthal proposed to Lauri Läänemets that the Social Democratic Party withdraw its draft. Lauri West Forests, however, did not consider this necessary. The position of the Government of the Republic was expressed by Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko. The position of the Government of the Republic was not to support the draft. The government representative found that the Constitution itself provides for restrictions on matters to be put to the referendum. § 106 of the Constitution lists which topics cannot be put to a referendum. There is no provision in the Constitution as to which questions can be put to a referendum. Putting the draft law and other matters of state life into a referendum is two different things, explained by a representative of the government. Since this is a matter of other state life at the moment, the Government of the Republic cannot support the addition of the draft, firstly because the requirements for this issue, which can be put to a referendum by virtue of the Constitution itself, cannot be supported. Secondly, the representative of the Government considered that the proposed addition might give the impression that there would be no other restriction on this issue. Thus, in the view of the Government of the Republic, the addition to the draft is misleading. The representative of the government said that the drafters have identified the need to ensure that the Riigikogu's law on domestic and working procedures complies with the Constitution, but the current law is already constitutional and there is no need to amend it. Mr Läänemets asked the representative of the government whether the amendment to the draft was in conflict with the Constitution. The Government's representative then reaffirmed that the Constitution already regulates this issue, but this amendment is contrary to legal clarity, as this amendment may be misleading and not necessary. At the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 8 December. The Commission also proposed to reject the draft at first reading and appoint Anti-Poland Forest as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U158	Thank you very much. You have questions. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! That's what I'm asking for in terms of education. As long as I have served my daily bread in this Riigikogu, I have the impression that the Government of the Republic will not be asked for an opinion to amend the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. And if any committee has asked, the Government of the Republic has said that the law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu is still a matter for the Riigikogu itself to regulate; they do not express an opinion on it. It was different this time. Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U160	I cannot compare [the current situation] with the previous approach; I think it is natural to give the opinion of the Government of the Republic. However, the Riigikogu has the right to self-regulation; you referred to the right subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U161	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U162	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! We understood that there was no wish to change anything, but that the Socats simply wanted their own interpretation to be heard from this speaker. However, as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have you thought that perhaps it was a rather silent cry for help and that not all socialists are in favour of supporting the same-sex marriage now in corpore, as their council has already decided? Maybe we should look at their souls. Or should both their free interpretation and their own decisions simply remain in their midst and we could proceed peacefully with the work of the Riigikogu and should not interfere with their internal war?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U163	Good questioner! That's a very funny interpretation of the Sotsi interpretation. But I think that, in any case, they want to give this law their vision, which the government does not share and which most members of the Commission did not share.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U164	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U165	Thank you. Dear waitress, When this draft was discussed in the committee, was it also under discussion whether it was compatible with the Constitution or not? And if it was a debate, what was the position?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U166	The position was the one I last put forward. One particular question was Lauri from the Western Forest to the representative of the government: is the amendment to the draft contrary to the Constitution? The Government representative said that the Constitution already regulates this issue and that this amendment is contrary to legal clarity, since the amendment to be made can be misleading. Hanno Pevkur referred in his speech to the fact that the draft is rather contrary to the Constitution, because a referendum can be called into question by another state and cannot be narrowed down by the Riigikogu's law on domestic and working procedures, because restrictions are in place in the Constitution. The same was noted by the Government's representative when he said that § 106 of the Constitution already states which subjects cannot be put to referendum, that is, restrictions already exist and are stated in the Constitution itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U167	Rock Hard, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U168	Thank you, Mr. President. Good Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! I still didn't quite understand that last answer. Do you, as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, consider this amendment to be contrary to the Constitution, or is it not? What do you think? You said what Hanno Pevkur thought, and what the government representative thought, were not exactly similar opinions. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U169	I am going to pass on the Commission's debate here, but I can also state my position. In my opinion, this is contrary to the Constitution. But for such a matter, I would most like to get the Supreme Court's judgment in case of a dispute. So we have to keep arguing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U170	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U171	Good manager! Good waitress! If we are already talking about what points are in our Bible, or the Law on Home and Working Procedures, in conflict with the Constitution, did the Commission also discuss which points are in conflict with the Constitution and how many of them are at all and why have they not been removed for decades?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U172	If [the question] was the contradiction of the Law on Home and Working Procedures as a whole, if I heard correctly, then [let it be said] it must be very nicely, exemplaryly compatible with the Constitution. There can be no such flaws here. However, this draft seeks to clarify the Constitution, while there is an exhaustive list of what must not be put to the referendum. Therefore, the desire to restrict the subject of the popular inquiry contained in this draft is contrary to the list already in existence in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U173	Lauri West Forest, please! Then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U174	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. Was there any way in which the Commission discussed that the draft law could be put into [a referendum] as a matter of other state life? Did the Commission consider that it is justified to put the bill to a referendum as a matter of other state life? [I so ask] because this bill only says that as a matter of other state life, draft laws cannot be put to a referendum.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U175	This topic was noted by Kaja Kallas and also mentioned by Lauri Läänemets, so there was a debate. I'm trying to find a couple of places in the protocol... But the short answer is, yes, it was handled.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U176	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Before we open negotiations, we have a proposal to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. I will now put this proposal to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Isamaa Group to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U177	There are 41 members of the Riigikogu in favour of extending the session, one against and one abstention. The trial will be resumed. I am now opening negotiations on the fifth item, and the representatives of the political groups can take the floor. Hanno Pevkur, on behalf of the Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand the purpose of this bill. I particularly understand this because I have recently read quite a lot of the materials of the Constitutional Assembly and the discussions that were held there in this very hall, and the topic of the referendum is something that was not thoroughly discussed. This has also been recognised recently by Liia Hänni, the head of the drafting panel of the Constitutional Assembly, who said, among other things, that they did not foresee that a referendum on other matters of state life could be a political land of play where a party or a Member of Parliament is going to put some kind of party political views into a referendum. As a result, in this debate we have reached the point that we have an argument as to whether there may be a change in the law in the form that it has been put before us [now], we will be discussing it next week. Coming specifically to this draft [amendment of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act], this is unfortunately not the way to solve this problem. The referendum is regulated in Estonia in three laws: our most important, constitutional, as well as the referendum law, and indeed the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Only by taking one piece out of this model or formula is the question marks actually left in the air. The main question mark with regard to the draft law is, in fact, the end of the paragraph to be amended: "the question must not deal with any other amendment of the law'. In order to understand the nature of the referendum, I sincerely recommend to all Members of Parliament and why not all those who listen to us read the explanation "Behind the corners of the Constitution" published on the ERR portal by Priit Pikamäe, the previous President of the Supreme Court. He deals quite well with what the difference is if the law is to be amended and when it comes to other matters of state life. They also need to be distinguished from the view of the Constitution, but indeed, in writing the Constitution, the procedure for other matters of state life has not been fully debated. There is only one clear difference, and this difference is that putting the issue of other state life in a referendum will not lead to the dissolution of Parliament in the event of a negative result. However, the result of putting the bill in a referendum and obtaining a negative result is that Parliament is going to disband. This is the biggest difference from Parliament's point of view. Now, can a draft law be put into [a referendum] as a matter of other state life? Of course you can't. If Parliament wishes to put a draft law into a referendum, it must make use of the possibility of amending the draft law in the manner described in the Constitution. However, [as a matter of other state life] can put questions to a referendum that are not currently strictly regulated by law. The most classic example that Priit Pikamäe offers is, for example, the question of whether there should be a nuclear station in Estonia. If the people say yes, then the public authorities must start moving towards having a nuclear power plant in Estonia. If the answer is no, the result is that the state authorities are not entitled to start building it, to initiate a detailed plan or to carry out other activities in order for the nuclear power plant to come to Estonia. This is such a classic example of another matter of state life. Can I have an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U179	Yeah, I'm sure you'll get three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U180	Consequently, we really need to understand that changing the principles of the referendum is not only a change in the law of the home and of the rules of procedure, but in fact it is the dismantling of the constitution. That is why the Reform Party Group decided not to proceed with this draft in this form. This is a debate on the constitutional provisions. Indeed, we agree that this issue needs a better debate. We also agree that asking a question in a referendum in the form of whether the law in force applies is not in line with the spirit of the Constitution, especially when you read through the debate on the subject at Priit Pikamäe. Therefore, in fact, everyone who has a desire to either... By the way, it is also not regulated whether the initiative for a referendum can only come from Parliament or whether it can come from somewhere else. It's not regulated. The initiative may come from the people, it may come from the government, it may come from Parliament, but Parliament must decide. And as a result of which model will be chosen, the voting requirements that we have set for Parliament will also differ. If the Constitution is to be amended, a four-fifths [by majority] [of the Riigikogu] decision is needed to initiate it and a two-thirds majority to vote on it and adopt it. If [a referendum] is to have a draft law, then a majority of votes are needed, but the result is that Parliament will disband if the people do not approve the draft. The referendum on other matters of state life is the most lenient and, for example, the participation of ten people in itself is legitimate; there is indeed no requirement for a quorum there. So there are quite a number of questions around the referendum and it certainly makes sense to discuss the subject of the referendum in public law in order to [explain] which issues or how the referendum should be dealt with. Pikkägi offers a very simple solution, among other things: only draft laws could be put into referendums and people's opinion will be interviewed if they want to find out in another form. Since the Constitution does not foresee the Institute of People's Surveys today, we have a 'other' referendum on the issue of state life. When you read the protocols of the Constitutional Assembly, you can see that there was, in fact, a public survey under discussion, but it was excluded. For example, the first draft of Adams, the first version of the Constitution, contained a survey of the population. But that is already history, why the then Constitutional Assembly did not leave the opportunity for a public survey, which does not actually have legal consequences, and it was replaced by a referendum in the form of another matter of state life. Let me sum up a long story. Good Soviets, we are ready to discuss further with you in public law how to distinguish between referendums amending the law and votes in which Parliament wishes to have a public poll once again: through a public poll rather than a referendum, to get an opinion from people on one or another of the issues of state life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U181	Thank you very much. There is no more desire to participate in the negotiations and I consider the negotiations to be concluded. We have a proposal from the lead committee to reject draft 249 at first reading. I have to put it to a vote. Gather around! Honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as the lead committee to reject draft 249 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U182	63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of rejecting the draft at first reading, with 10 against. The draft was rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U183	Ladies and gentlemen, Let us look at the next, sixth item. This is the second reading of the draft law 287 on the amendment of the law on funded pensions initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the related amendment of other laws. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U184	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation for the second reading of draft law 287 on the amendment of the Pensions Act initiated by the Monetary Commission and the related amendment of other laws took place at the meeting of the Commission on 24 November and 3 December. The discussion of 24 November and 3 December was also attended by Siiri Tõniste, Head of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Counsellor Kertu Fedotov. The draft relates to the reform of the second pillar, which made it a voluntary fundraising exercise. The draft initiated does not make fundamental changes to the reform of the second pillar, but corrects the reference errors that have occurred and clarifies the movement of money and data relating to the pension investment account. In particular, the draft specifies the flow of money and data relating to the pension investment account. Neither the political groups nor the members of the Riigikogu proposed amendments to the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments, by 7 December. The opinion on the draft was also sought from the Estonian Insurance Association, the Estonian Banking Association, Finance Estonia and the Pension Centre. At its meeting on 24 November, the Commission took procedural decisions on the second reading of the draft, and at its meeting on 3 December it decided to table six amendments of a technical nature on the draft, and at its meeting on 7 December the Commission adopted a procedural decision on the third reading. The amendments are included in the list of amendments and the explanations of the amendments are also included in the list of amendments. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 8 December; to propose that the second reading be closed; to propose that, when the second reading is closed, the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 15 December and that the final vote be taken. A few words of change. The first amendment is based on the desire to ensure a smooth exchange of data between the pension registrar, the Social Insurance Board and the unemployment fund so that payments from the second pension pillar to persons with no working capacity are not taxed on income tax. The second is a purely technical correction. The third proposal concerns the use of inherited second pillar assets to provide additional insurance premiums. In other words, if the beneficiary uses the amount in question to pay an additional premium and thereby to increase his pension, he or she will benefit from a tax benefit for pensioners in the second pillar. The fourth amendment adds that the pension supplement paid to the parent for the following year will be increased by 0.5%. The fifth proposal provides for a temporary derogation in enforcement proceedings for the freezing of claims for payment of compulsory funded pensions. According to the sixth proposal, a self-employed person may deduct an additional amount of up to EUR 5000 from the proceeds of the disposal of his own-produced agricultural products from which the deductions referred to in paragraph 1 of [Section 32 of the Income Tax Act] have been made during the tax relief period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-08_U185	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No questions for you. It is possible to open negotiations that can be attended by all members of the Riigikogu. As the desire to participate in the negotiations has not been revealed, I consider the negotiations to be concluded on this matter. We need to examine the amendments, there are six of them, as the rapporteur said. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the lead committee has taken full account of it. Nobody calls for a vote. The third amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The four amendments are from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of this. The fifth amendment is also from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. The sixth amendment is also from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the opinion of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments and the lead committee has proposed to conclude the second reading of the draft 287. There are no other proposals. This item is closed and the sitting is closed.
