ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 5th working week Tuesday session of the 3rd plenary session. To begin with, members of the Riigikogu are able to deliver drafts and questions. There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Let's do a presence check, please! 56 members of the Riigikogu registered, 45 are missing. Ladies and gentlemen, Before we go to today's agenda, there is one clarification. On today's second item, the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, initiated by the National Defence Commission, will be presented by the member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Kai Rimmel.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Flag and Registers of Ships and the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Kalev Kallo, on behalf of the middle fraction, please. 5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U3	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare say that, from the point of view of the development of Estonian maritime affairs, today is indeed a historic day when, in a few moments' time, we will adopt the law amending the flag law of the ship and the law on ship registers and the Law on income tax and related amendments to other laws and other laws. It's been a long way to get to that. It is customary to look back at any significant milestone, so do I. Deeply concerned about the future of Estonian maritime affairs, 11 persons founded the Association Maritime Advisory Board on 17 April 2008. The members of the Advisory Board represented shipowners, shipbuilders, marine education, ports, active seafarers and policies. Here too, the speaker was and is among them as a founding member. The aim was to be a pressure group in the development of Estonian maritime policy and, of course, to participate. The primary task was to make it clear to the government that Estonia needs a maritime policy to be or become a maritime state. Visatus began to bear fruit, and in August 2009, the government decided to start developing the National Development Plan 'Estonian Maritime Policy'. The members of the association and the representatives of these authorities were actively involved in this work. In August 2012, the government approved the development plan "Estonia's Maritime Policy 2011 I am pleased to note that the development plan was discussed here in the honourable Chamber of the Riigikogu on 6 March 2013. Unfortunately, there was again a period of disputes at the time, where it was found that the Riigikogu should no longer approve development plans, and therefore the decision was not taken, it was restricted to discussion. Not after three months, but after one year and three months, in December 2013, the government approved the implementation plan for the development plan, which set out concrete actions with deadlines. Unfortunately, the governments of those days were able to drown all the objectives in endless disputes between the various committees, the deadlines for action went by with hope and, of course, the tasks were not fulfilled. Seeing that the country was unable to do anything, what had been in the air for a long time came about. In February 2014, the mixed cargo container ship Kurkse left the Estonian ship register and in April its sister ship Kalana. Since then, there are no large cargo ships flying the flag of Estonia. For Estonian maritime affairs, the sunbike began to rise to the horizon again in November 2016, when the government coalition led by Jüri Ratas took office. The coalition agreement between the Estonian Central Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Isamaa and Res Publica Union had formulated a promise to guarantee the conditions for bringing merchant ships under the Estonian flag. Serious work began in the preparation of the law. As usual, endless consultations, discussions and disputes followed. We are pleased to note that Kadri Simson, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications at the time, led the process firmly, and with joint force, together with the coalition partners, the law was passed just before the end of the term of office of the Riigikogu on 13 February 2019. Elections took place and a new coalition, Estonian Central Party, Isamaa and Estonian Conservative People's Party took office, who also confirmed that the future of Estonian maritime affairs remains one of the priorities. Last year it took the European Commission to apply for a State aid authorisation. The authorisation was obtained on 16 December 2019 and following the requirements set out in the permit, amendments to the flag law law of the ship were prepared and have reached adoption today. Great pleasure for Estonian maritime supporters and friends! The hope that Estonia, as a seaside country, will once again become a maritime state is clearly welcome, as one of the hallmarks of the maritime state is the existence of a legislative framework allowing its own merchant fleet and maritime affairs. It has to be said here that the law establishes more or less equivalent market conditions to those of neighbouring and distant countries. But why would a shipowner choose the flag of Estonia under equivalent conditions? In order for him to choose the flag of Estonia, a great deal of work still needs to be done at the level of the government. A service centre for Estonian and English shipowners and seafarers operating 24/7 must be established, as well as a modern, fully digital information system for seafarers and ships. To sum up, a paperless e-maritime must be created and a digital revolution organised in maritime transport. The Estonian state must operate effectively at sea. To the minimum, we must bring to the table the most popular favorite activities of our officials at all levels of bureaucracy. Reeder must feel comfortable and welcome in the Estonian register, only then will he bring his ships under the Estonian flag. At times, it seems that the already weak links found in the chain of flagship ships may be damaged by the momentum of the state reform to be carried out. I would very much like to hope that this will not happen, but this means that after the adoption of the law, the process must continue to be kept under the control of the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu. It gives me confidence that the Prime Minister has taken control of the process. Estonia's maritime economy has already been discussed twice in the Government's Economic Development Committee led by the Prime Minister, and it is planned to continue to do so. I call on everyone to vote in favour of bill 100. We bring cargo ships back under the flag of Estonia! I will conclude my speech with the words of the legendary reporter Hubert Veldermann: 'Let us still face the sea! ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U4	Thank you. Siim Kisler on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U5	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not asking for three more minutes. Thank you for your comprehensive review. I state that the Isamaa Group very much supports the adoption of this important bill, the clarification of the special corporate tax regime in the shipping sector. We're glad we've been through this road. The authorisation of State aid has been obtained from the European Commission and will be implemented by this amendment to the Act. Indeed, as has been said here, the Estonian Maritime Policy Action Plan has been in place for nine years in essence, and on 1 July of the ninth year, which is the 1st of July of this year, the amendments adopted previously and, hopefully, adopted today will enter into force. The priority of this action plan is the development of the business environment in the maritime sector and international competitiveness. We know that things have not been good with international competitiveness, and we are not illusioning that something very important is going to happen on 2 July or 3 July. But we do know that ship owners associated with Estonia have about 50.60 ships according to different data. We know that Estonia has the opportunity to be truly competitive here. And for that, we really need to think further about how to link the steps we are taking here, such as e-residency and climate policy. More stringent requirements will probably be imposed on ships in the future, which means that shipowners can also look at whether a country, for example, grants support for engine conversion. We need to look at all the possibilities and not at the doors opening up with a changing economic environment. We are pleased that this bill is here, and we hope that all groups will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U6	Thank you. Peeter Ernits, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U7	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of our group, I am sincerely pleased that this law will be passed today, and I hope that everyone will accept it. What has happened in Estonia as a sea state is incredible. And this fight! I remember these endless conversations with Tarmo Kõuts, whether it was even possible, and in fact it was not possible. If Tarmo was a member of the Riigikogu, this was not possible, although he is an admiral and a sailor, however, was not possible. The colleagues who were back then remember what happened and why happened and how it happened. But I don't want to remember the old thing. It's a good thing we're here now and we've been able to come up with a consensus. Indeed, towards the end of the mandate of the previous Riigikogu, it seemed that nothing could be changed. During the time when these men were killed in Kurks, the name of the cargo ship, one of the last to disappear from the Estonian flag in 2014, was Kurkse. So, actually, for six years as a sea state, we have been without merchant ships under our flag. We passed this law at the end of the last mandate of the Riigikogu, but then there was a tail, it was necessary to obtain a State aid permit from Brussels. And then, as always, it happened that our good fellow citizens, some organisations complained and turned to Brussels so that we would not get that permission. But we did, and today it is, as they say, grande finale. There is hope that Estonia will become a maritime state, that cargo ships will come here and that there will be much more of them than Estonian shipowners currently have. I don't want to talk about these pink dreams of 300 cargo ships, there's more. Tax revenue and reputation, of course, this is invaluable. So, in fact, we are about to be at such an historic event that the Estonian flag will also be waving on merchant ships around the world. Of course, there are other concerns, as passenger ships are also trying to slip out from under the Estonian flag. But as we discussed here during the previous Riigikogu, one thing at a time: we will do one thing and later we will come back to the rest of the ships and look at them as well. But briefly, not to speak further, I would ask everyone who has not yet decided to support this bill. It's a really good bill. Estonia will once again become a maritime state and Estonia's blue black and white flag will be waving in the bow of many merchant ships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U8	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, The story of Estonian maritime affairs has been one that is said not to be more religious than the Pope. In fact, we were more religious than the Pope in Estonia with our own tax system, which concerns regulation of the maritime sector. We saw Estonia's commercial voyage faded in front of everyone and the ships went under the flags of other countries. And not because Estonian shipowners would have been less patriots than Estonian farmers, but because, compared to other countries, the Estonian tax system was so expensive with regard to maritime affairs that the shipowners had to choose whether to pay themselves to death or to move under the flag of another country to run their business. This job has been really long. The first more serious Commission started work some ten years ago, which I also had the honour to be part of. The greater the pleasure of today's ten-year-old work coming to an end. The Reform Party Group supports the shipping bill and I ask everyone else to support it. We wish our shipowners wind up on the sails, even though this bill will no longer touch the sailboats, or at least seven feet of water under the wedge, so that the ships will drive and carry the goods within the framework of the new tax regime! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U10	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish to negotiate. The negotiations are over and we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on the draft Act 100 amending the Law on the Flag and Registers of Ships and the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U11	Today's second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, initiated by the National Defence Committee. I would like to ask Johannes Kerdi, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U12	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! On 28 January, including by consensus, the National Defence Committee initiated a draft law amending the Electronic Communications Act, which makes the following amendments to the Act. Paragraph 1 (1) of the draft law is supplemented by Paragraph 11 (41) of the Electronic Communications Act, which specifies that, when the coordination requirement is imposed, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority makes the frequency authorisation subject to the obligation to use only hardware and software that has been previously coordinated in accordance with Paragraph 87 (21). Paragraph 1 (2) of the draft law is supplemented by Paragraph 87 (21) of the Electronic Communications Act. This is a power of attorney which allows the Government of the Republic to introduce a regulation on the coordination and coordination of hardware and software used in communications networks. The Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority shall be established as a coordinating body. The same paragraph provides that the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority shall coordinate the hardware and software of the communication network if it meets public policy and national security needs. The aim of the draft is that the communications sector is a provider of basic infrastructure, enabling the digital society to function and develop. Communications network technologies also serve as a basis for critical areas of high reliability and reliability, such as medicine, transport, banking and energy, and as an increasing trend in robotics and artificial intelligence solutions. Communication network technologies are integrated into almost all systems, including vital services, in the digital society. ICT infrastructure must therefore be seen as a fundamental critical infrastructure. As all data passes through communications networks, communication networks play an increasingly important role also in the context of national security. It is inevitable that, due to the increase in the number and importance of communications networks and equipment connected to them, systems as a whole will also become more complex. It is also becoming more difficult to protect ICT systems from manipulations and attacks. Frequent software updates and critical security sites add complexity, with no time waiting to be installed. Due to the limited possibility of verification, trust in the technology manufacturer has become a critical factor. The technology manufacturer is no longer a mere supplier of equipment and software but, more generally, a supplier of a technological service with which a relationship of cooperation of years will be built. Estonia's ICT infrastructure must also take into account the defence aspect. Estonian defence is based on a broad approach to national defence and NATO collective defence. This means that the defence of the state does not only involve military defence, but that all public authorities and all society must be prepared for defence. Effective state protection is ensured by military and non-military capabilities, resources and activities from the public, private and third sectors. ICT infrastructure is essential in this context to ensure the continuity of the state and society and to organise national defence. The choice of technology manufacturer should therefore take into account the needs of Estonia's independent defence capabilities, as well as the assessments and limitations of our allies regarding the use of technology. The aim is to ensure that our ICT infrastructure is secure and reliable, both in our own eyes and in the eyes of NATO's allies. In order to ensure the quality of networks, minimise the impact of cyber attacks and avoid political manipulation, it is necessary to ensure that the establishment of communications networks and the provision of communications services through them are carried out by secure technology and by a reliable partner. In the light of the above, it is appropriate to supplement the Electronic Communications Act with a rule allowing the Government of the Republic to impose a requirement for the coordination of technologies used in communications networks, thereby ensuring a high level of security for communications networks. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U13	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U14	Thank you. The purpose of the draft is understandable. I understand that hardware and software must meet certain security requirements. I have a question: who will decide on the criteria to be met by hardware and software?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U15	Thank you for your question. This will be decided by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U16	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U17	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good member of the National Defence Commission! I have heard that this draft law was not prepared by the National Defence Committee, but by the government. My question is, is this true? Why didn't the government itself submit this draft to us, and are you sure from the National Defence Committee, or the initiator, that the preparer of this draft has involved all kinds of stakeholders, as is usually the case in the preparation of the draft? And have they done any tests? What about this side?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U18	Thank you. The question is clear. This draft was prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, mainly by the Cyber Security Bureau of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. And why? Perhaps another aspect before: during 2019, the Interministerial Working Group has done coordinating work. It took time, and the Ministry of Justice was the last to reach coordination at the beginning of December. And now, because the European Union's provisions, agreed on the dates for the designation and accession of the frequency bands for communications networks, have left the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in order to stay on schedule, no choice but to use the direct route to the Riigikogu. Since the National Defence Committee has dealt with issues of electronic communications security in the past, for example, at the end of the previous term we dealt with the adoption of the Cyber Security Act, they turned to us to bring it to the Riigikogu. After the second reading, it is also possible that the government will give its decision all the more so since the coordinating work for the government's decision has been completed during the previous year. So it shouldn't take much time, maybe you need to adjust the agenda a little bit. I hope I answered your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U19	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U20	Thank you. Perhaps a comment to a good colleague Kalvi Tõlle: the processing and initiation of a bill in the Riigikogu is a perfectly legal path; there is nothing surprising here. Secondly, I would like to clarify that the government is able to present its views and opinions between the first and second readings, not after the second reading. But my question is rather, good John, to you would you like to clarify that the content of this bill is simply to give the government of the Republic a power of attorney and nothing more.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U21	Yeah, that's right. We give the government a mandate, the government can act on it and organise its work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U22	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U23	Thank you. Good John! According to you, the preparer of this draft was the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it concerns the law on electronic communications, but we all understand that one thing is what form is, and the other thing is what content is. And essentially, the Committee on National Defence, coming before us, sends out a clear signal that this is a security issue, otherwise it could and should have been initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Does the National Defence Commission have the opinion of the security authorities on this issue before coming to this great hall? Although, yes, it is only a mandate rule, as far as the content is concerned, we understand what it is. Perhaps the Foreign Intelligence Board and the Defence Police Department have given their input or their assessment of how to deal with this problem and solve it in this way through the Electronic Communications Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U24	Thank you for your question. The question is understandable and, indeed, the Foreign Intelligence Office has carried out and provided the relevant risk analysis. I'll read it if I have to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U25	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I am looking at this amendment to the law, as well as the Government of the Republic's regulation relating to the arrangements for coordinating hardware and software in the communications network and the draft for ensuring public order for national security. It is noted here that if a communications undertaking must, and analogously, there are also in this regulation, so in principle they are like future-oriented problems. However, for clarification, I would like to know whether this will also have retroactive effect or influence on those companies that have already done so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U27	Thank you for your question. There is no retroactive effect. Rather, it is seen that this reprofiling of communications networks will take place during a transitional period. This will also avoid economic costs. I hope I answered the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U28	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U29	Thank you. Indeed, the substance of the draft is that we give a mandate to the government, which in turn delegates it to the consumer protection agency. Now, we imagine that the law is already in force and the decision is coming that one or the other hardware manufacturer is not suitable for the Estonian market. Can and how, for example, can I know what criteria this particular producer does not meet? And is this information public? Is the list of criteria public? Is the logic of the decision written?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U30	That information is not at my disposal today. Nor was this subject under discussion in the Committee on National Defence or in the Committee on Economic Affairs. There are some precedents on which this loss of confidence in certain companies has arisen. For example, there has been a leak in Australia in which information has reached another country, and it has not touched anyone other than the Australians. As a result, the US, first Australia, and then the US, has imposed a restriction on the use of this technology in their networks. Japan and Taiwan have also imposed such restrictions. Now this discussion is coming to Europe. In Europe, similar powers, as we are now giving to our government, have been imposed in France and Sweden, by the way, as well as with a transitional period, not at the very least, to avoid high economic costs. It is about trusting our allies on the one hand and solidarity on the other. Since we need to work with the United States in the field of security and defence, and with those countries that are members of the European Union, the use of certain technologies may hinder the functioning of our allied relations. Indeed, if the use of certain technologies allows, for example, the movement of our allies and our own troops to be very easily positioned, probably listening too, to take data out through the back doors, it is certainly not in our interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U31	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I've already partially read these answers here. My main question was what security risks are rightly feared and how this bill could improve this situation, because leaking and positioning are certainly not some specific function of a single manufacturer. It could be said that this is almost a basic function and is allowed by all producers. However, I would like to ask whether it is also intended for administrative expenditure, because Estonia's approach is still fundamentally different from that of Sweden. It also requires operators to replace ex post all the equipment of the respective manufacturer that has been put somewhere. And the argument is whether the network ends with a router, a digibox or a mobile phone. What could this administrative cost be, and what could be the overall cost of implementing this law for these companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U33	Thank you. Got it. This is, in fact, more of a question for the government whose regulation is going to lay down it. But I suppose the government will make such a decision that it will set a transitional period of, for example, 3 to 6 years, according to the company's specifics. Since most of these technologies have already been introduced in 2013, for example, the time to replace them may be three or four years from now. The time of replacement of these technologies, which are later introduced and for which we do not want them to be used, could be, for example, ten years. This will avoid such costs. This is one of the reasons for a transitional period, such a differentiated transitional period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U34	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! In answer to Andrei Korobenik's question, you have already said that a decision on the suitability of the supplier's technological solution or on the risks involved will be taken by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. That is not quite true, because if we look at this draft government regulation that is now before us, in fact, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority will only communicate the information received to the security authorities and the National Information System Authority and they will give their opinion. When we had people from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications here to present it, they actually said with the first slide that there was nothing technical to conclude or decide. How, then, will security authorities base their conclusions on the suitability or suitability of one technology?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U36	Thank you. I think there were two questions already. Firstly, the National Information System Authority and the security authorities make recommendations and not make decisions. Decisions are still made elsewhere. Point two, I am afraid that neither Estonia nor elsewhere in the European Union has such technical possibilities to conclude very precisely where these security holes are and what these security holes exactly allow. We have the example of Australia, and there is also the example of Lithuania, where ministers were given mobile phones using certain technologies and a leak of information occurred in an Asian country. In the European Union, yes, there is currently no country with such capacity. If you start creating it here, maybe it'll take years. As it is also a matter of national defence, we must inevitably trust and show solidarity with our most important allies in the area of security and defence from NATO. So one half of it is technological, the other half is security policy. And in security policy, it's advisable to have one of the best friends, not to try to have two or three. There are a number of examples of how the countries that intend to have several friends have not finished well. The last example is Ukraine, which fell between two chairs and now struggles to get to one chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U37	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When you answered my first question, you said that the law does not have retroactive force. But what may be the security risk for those communication operators who already use hardware or software on the communication network?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U39	Yeah, thanks! A certain compromise between spending and security risks is inevitable here. Since there is no very direct security threat to Estonia today from this Asian country, the government can make its final decision here. Hopefully, we'll give this delegation to the government. But yes, it is primarily a matter for the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U40	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When we talk about a data leak, most of the time the data leak at the destination points occurs either on the transmitter's side or on the receiver's side. And therefore, the question: how will the replacement of these devices in the transmission network increase security if companies, people and authorities continue to use these "dangerous" devices in their internal network or as their own personal device? And the other side, which concerns the security of the computer network, in general, is a good practice of using equipment made by several manufacturers, so that, if there is a safety hole in one of them, the whole system cannot be taken over, but may be accessible to only one layer. Today, when we start reducing this choice, it's actually a loss of security.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U42	Thank you for a very good question. I hope I can answer that. First part of the question. When it comes to eavesdropping, I agree with you. When it comes to geo-positioning, there will certainly be other infrastructure that supports these devices, phones. Now the second part of the question. Here I would say something like this, that you are certainly right, that it makes sense to use a number of devices or devices from several companies in the system, but I believe that our government is so smart that it does not ban all companies, but makes a reasonable choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U43	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U44	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You also referred in your report to the fact that Sweden and France, for example, have already regulated the matter. And Erki Savisaar argued against you, said that Sweden has regulated it in a very different way, softer way. I totally agree with Erk, that's right. At the same time, French Telecom companies have already begun to calculate the amount of their claim against the French State in the event that such action is carried out. But you've always pointed out that it's a wise government decision how much it's gonna cost. I am saying that this should be our decision, because the draft on which we are voting now says that the implementation of the law will not entail any additional costs. Also in the explanatory memorandum, part of the economic impact relates to how this bill does not involve costs. In fact, he brings and it would be fair to say how much, or to make some prediction in this respect, because we are still voting on the state's financial expenditures.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U45	Thank you. I would not like to answer you with the question that it is not good, colleague, and tell me how these costs will be incurred. There may certainly be low costs here, but high costs are intended to be minimised or avoided by a flexible transition period.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U46	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U47	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is certainly an important and right step in the right direction, but this discussion should certainly look at the big picture. And my question comes from this area, that we are quite a lot in this Chamber, in various committees, collecting that the Estonian communications network could be operator-neutral. This would increase market competition, with many smaller providers entering the market. Unfortunately, it's always bumped into something. They want to be both a network owner and a service provider at the same time, and I think this is a very important place to discuss in the context of security. How do we proceed with the communication network strategy? Is this an important discussion place to make today, now and now these decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U48	Thanks a lot, Andres. What you say makes sense, but it takes time to do it. Today, it is the agreements that have been concluded in the European Union that are forcing us to hurry. I think that what you are saying, this process, this long-term vision, which is likely to significantly increase the security of the state, should start in parallel. Today we should do what we need to do today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U49	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U50	Good manager! Good waitress! Well, we all know the name of the wolf, but that's not what we're calling it. But as Andres Metsoja said, let's look at the big picture of what the fight really is. If you quote your draft here, communications networks will be built on reliable technology. Now, in the US and in many other countries, communications networks are built on reliable technology, but at the same time our other important partner, the capital of the European Union, Brussels, is actually based on untrustworthy technology using the same words. But there is the European Commission, the European Parliament and all the other institutions with which we are connected, by umbilical cord, in the same way as Washington, which uses reliable technology. How do you deal with this schizophrenic situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U51	Thank you, very good question! Unfortunately, I must agree with you that the situation is just as you described it. And getting out of this situation may not be the easiest, especially with regard to the Kingdom of Belgium, where almost 100% of technology has been introduced, which is now recommended to be avoided. I cannot tell you what the Belgian Government is going to do, but in time it will certainly do something, and the sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U52	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U53	Good manager! A representative of the initiators of a good bill! This has been a good debate here today, and it is an important draft and necessary amendment that needs to be done in the law. Why this is necessary, you have explained this long and very well when you answer questions here. My question is: how do the initiators see this bill moving forward? At what pace and how?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U54	Thank you! The initiators of the draft act see that now, between the first and second readings, we also hope to get the government's opinion and move forward at the maximum speed so that we can meet the deadlines resulting from the European Union's documents.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U55	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U56	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll take it from where you left off. Actually, look, the blood flow's big and small. And we have like two heads: Brussels and Washington. There's no way to cut one of them off. But how do you manage here as Little Peter? We can accept this bill, but the problem remains. Yes, the Kingdom of Belgium is sovereign in its decisions, but there, in the territory of the Kingdom of Belgium, happens to be the head of the entire European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U57	Yeah, I got it! In the Kingdom of Belgium, where the governing bodies of the European Union are located, NATO headquarters as well as other international institutions, the 4G network is being used today. We're talking about building a 5G network, which means we're looking at future technology. Yes, this exclusion technology has also been used in the 4G network, but if Belgium is switching to 5G, then efforts will also be made to use the appropriate technology. The European Union, as such, is in the same way taking decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U58	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U59	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I don't know this area. I am listening to the debate here and I agree with colleagues who say that the debate is interesting and good. I will listen to my colleagues' questions and your very competent answers. I have two questions, General. Is it just me or does it actually seem to you that you are referring to the speed of this bill, that the draft has been drawn up in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, however, could have brought the government here? I have this feeling that you and I are both tankers. That's one question. And second: how many countries of the European Union have already legalised it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U60	I can answer the second question better. France and Sweden have given the respective standards of delegation to the government at parliamentary level so that the government can do this in its day-to-day work. I don't feel like we're tankers. I have a feeling it was in the best interest to move on quickly. The government and ministries have been working all year to coordinate these positions, and when they found out at the end of the year that they were stuck with deadlines, their intention and request had to be rushed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U61	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now I ask Mr Rimmel, member of the Economic Commission, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the Committee on Economic Affairs, 138 draft laws were discussed for the first time, including on 10 February. Johannes Kert, member of the Riigikogu, and Advisor to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, head of the state's cyber security policy, Raul Rikk. Draft law 138 on the amendment of the Electronic Communications Act, initiated by the National Defence Committee, is undoubtedly a very important bill to ensure the security of the state, so I will give you an overview of what happened in the Economic Committee. Member of the Riigikogu Johannes Kert gave an overview of the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications. The draft provides the Government of the Republic with a mandate to allow the Government of the Republic to introduce a regulation on the coordination and coordination of hardware and software used in communications networks, thereby ensuring a high level of security of communications networks. Therefore, this draft provides only a mandate rule and does not, in principle, determine the possibility of a final decision. Advisor to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Head of State Security Policy Raul Rikk explained in detail that the nature of the problem, which is solved by this draft, is that Estonia today does not control how communication operators build up their communications network, and there is no overview of the technology used by communication companies and how risky this technology is. Even if the state discovers risks in some technologies, the state currently does not have the possibility to limit the use of such technology. This mandate also seeks to solve this problem. That is why a draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications and a regulation of the Government of the Republic have been developed to enable the state to control the security of technologies already used in communications networks. Three very important aspects have been identified in the recommendations on cyber security for the 5G networks of the European Union. Firstly, countries should update their legislation to ensure the security of communications networks. Secondly, countries should provide for control mechanisms to ensure compliance with the rules. And thirdly, countries should ensure that the share of one particular technology in communications networks is not too high. The countries of the European Union have agreed that the technologies used in communications networks will be subject to greater scrutiny. Since the Government of the Republic is not empowered to introduce such a regulation, it is necessary to include a power of attorney in the Electronic Communications Act. At the moment, amendments to the draft regulation are also underway, the intention is to shorten the period of proceedings and introduce a derogation for the infrastructure already acquired for a transitional period. In addition, coordination has an impact analysis. Sven Sester asked for clarification as to whether the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications merely establishes the procedure at the moment and whether the substantive decisions to whom and what are authorised are to be decided by the respective agencies and are not defined in the draft. Raul Rikk's opponent, that is exactly what this is, will be established only by procedure. Kristen Michal pointed out that since the construction of the 5G network is based on a network previously built, whether it is planned to assess the investments made in the past or whether the assessment of the networks concerns equipment to be deployed in the future. In addition, Michal asked about the capacity of the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority to assess the security risks of network equipment. Mr Raul Rikk replied that there was no plan to carry out an evaluation of the technology already in use. Companies have said that investments have been made for a long time, so the implementing provisions of the Government of the Republic Regulation could include a time limit on the use of technology already acquired. Businesses in Estonia would now like to be allowed to use existing technology for 10 years, i.e. until 2030. However, the length of the transitional period remains to be decided. The failure added that the new process would certainly create additional workload for the Technical Surveillance Authority. However, there is a expectation from communications undertakings that information on communications networks will be provided in such a way as to enable security assessments to be carried out in every way possible. The Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has no competence to assess national security and cyber security. Therefore, the Regulation provides for a procedure whereby the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority requests input from national security authorities and the National Information System Authority. In this case, the TTJA performs the data verification function and the security assessment is based on the opinion of the security authorities, the State Information System Authority and the Cybersecurity Board. Sven Sester asked for clarification as to who would assess the suitability of technologies for security purposes. Raul Rikk said that the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority would send information to the Defence Police Department, the Foreign Intelligence Board and the State Information System Authority. The National Information System Authority will look at whether there is a problem with a device from a technical point of view. The Department of Defence and the Department of Foreign Intelligence assess more general risks according to the information available. If there is no risk of technology, the information will go to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority and the authorisation will be issued. If it becomes apparent that technology is exposed to risks, the decision-making power will go to the Cyber Security Board, where consideration will be given to how to proceed with risky technology, whether to set a time limit for the use of this technology, to impose a restriction on use immediately or to limit the use of geographically risky technology. The Cyber Security Board shall forward the decisions to the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, which shall also issue an administrative act in accordance with the decision. Kalvi Tõvi wondered if the opinion of the Government of the Republic had been asked about this draft. The answer was that an opinion has been requested from the Government of the Republic, but before the opinion can be obtained, the draft can be made at first reading, and the decision of the Government of the Republic comes between the first and second readings. The Kalvi Hard further examined what the inclusion process was meant and whether it was done before the first reading. It is more common for interested parties to be included in the draft procedure after the first reading. Given the pace of the procedure, it would be reasonable for the draft to be sent to the first reading at the moment and not sent to the second reading before obtaining the Government's opinion. If necessary, a meeting of the relevant working group can also be organised. Kai Rimmel expressed the opinion that the 10-year transition period is too long, as by then the technology has long been obsolete. Raul Rikk commented that the question here is how much it costs to replace technology for the state. Communication undertakings have examined whether the State is prepared to cover the costs of replacing risky technologies. Companies are more or less in agreement with the procedure proposed in the Regulation if the acquired technology could be used up to the end of this life cycle. If the State requires a faster replacement of technology, the undertakings would ask the State for compensation or contest the decision of the State. From the state's point of view, a transition period of 10 years would be appropriate, provided that Estonian allies do not want a faster process. Sven Sester asked to clarify whether there was a common position in the European Union to mitigate the risks associated with 5G technology and whether, according to the transnational agreement, other Member States, like Estonia, would establish a coordination process with the agencies. Raul Rikk replied that this was a position agreed by the countries of the European Union, which is an indicative force. State security is a country's own design, but an agreement between states is to guide the development of a common policy. And then they asked again if there was a procedure like this in place. Such countries are France and Sweden. The following was decided: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 18 February, consensually; to appoint Kai Rimmel as rapporteur at yesterday's meeting, as the member of the Commission changed and to propose that the first reading be terminated. In addition to the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs held on 10 February, the meeting also took place on 11 February, where the Committee on Economic Affairs proposed, or rather decided, to seek the opinion of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities of 138 draft laws amending the Law on electronic communications. The decision was adopted in a consensual manner and an inquiry has been sent. We expect a response by the deadline for submitting proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U63	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is undoubtedly an important draft and it is very good that we are discussing it here in Parliament. Of course, the state must ensure security for all users of its communications networks, which is the cornerstone of cyber security. Cybersecurity will be increasingly important in all our operations, especially when we move towards 5G, which allows for the Internet of Things. This leads to new, completely unfamiliar opportunities, but also to completely unfamiliar risks. We have technological choices ahead of us, but often we have to make them based on what we believe and on what we doubt and what our fears are. But the choice of technology should not be a matter of faith, it should be based on knowledge. At the moment, our dilemma and, in fact, the whole world is that we do not know what technologies are still working, where the problems are. Estonia is a smart e-governance. We've always been proud of it, you don't have to believe it, you don't have to doubt it, that's just the way it is. We have an idea in the Reform Party that would further anchor the image of our e-state and make the whole world more knowledge-based. We intend to propose to the government that a telecommunications competence centre be established in Estonia, which could function with the support of NATO and the European Union, and in cooperation with technology companies, to test the technological solutions of specific manufacturers on the basis of security and also security requirements. Such a centre could be established either on its own or as an existing NATO Cyber Defence Cooperation Centre or as a new sub-unit of the European Union IT Agency. The aim could be that the certificate of this new competence centre should be a quality label and guarantee in the future, which should not lead users to doubt the quality and safety of the particular device or its manufacturer. In this way, we would ensure the sustainability of investment and also the security of the solutions of the technologies chosen. In this way, we can bring Estonia back to the picture in Europe and the world as a knowledge-based country, as a leader of change, because with cyber security, as I said, all countries and people are wrestling. That is our proposal. I hope that if we come up with this, it will also be supported by coalition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U65	Thank you. Andres Metsoja on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U66	Good chairman of the sitting! Yes, indeed, it was not very long ago when we received humanitarian aid computers and made public Internet points. And now, at one point, we are hitting ourselves in a major global circus, where everyone has everything to do with data and where the subject of communications networks and cybersecurity is inextricably linked. I think that the narrow discussion of this power of attorney in the Riigikogu would perhaps be a bit bizarre. I think that in this Chamber we should not really talk about this one puzzle piece, so that it is like putting the puzzle together as a whole, but we should talk about the puzzle as a whole, about what is in the picture and whether all the puzzle pieces are still in the box, so that it can be put together at all. I am undoubtedly concerned, and I think that our entire group is concerned that we cannot, in parallel, address this strategy for communications networks, or the whole picture. After all, we have put both European money and our taxpayer's money into building a broadband network for a long time, with over 100 million being put there. In addition, private companies have also invested their capital in order to obtain a better underground network so that people can live in any part of Estonia. However, we have not seen the details we are fighting today. The very important and still unresolved issue in the Estonian context is that we have not been able to solve the problem of operator neutrality, which would certainly and undoubtedly make this transition, which we are considering here today as a mandate rule, much easier for the Estonian state. We have taken a long step forward in the context of energy security, we have improved connections, we have just separated the network service provider and the electricity service provider. But here it's all together, in one platter. However, there are relatively few bidders on the market. And when we initiate this issue, we often come up against the wall precisely because the private sector is not interested in it. And it is said that competition on the Estonian market is good enough. But look, this is where we need to start setting technological restrictions. In fact, I think that every producer that is involved in developing his own expertise is once again one step ahead of all of us, and we are the runners on this issue. But one thing is certain: if there is a network, the construction of the network is highly regulated at national level, and there are devices in this network that actually need to ensure our security, namely in the cyber field. You have to keep running like Alice in the back of the mirror. You have to run so you don't fall behind, and you have to run even faster to get ahead of someone. We've got a lot of work to do here. I very much hope that there will soon be a serious issue coming from the government on this table, on which we will discuss a strategic view of our communications networks as a whole, both ownership relations and how to ensure this service in the market at all, up to the TETRA network. This example of South-East Estonia is a real example of how we need to communicate through networks in neighbouring countries. There are many questions, up to that point, that when the EASA network is built up to a certain point on the network level, it has become clear to everyone that the distance of two kilometres between the masts is not the solution. In the case of 5G, the distance between the consumer and the mast must be 500 metres in order to bring the Internet of Things to people at a higher frequency. Power! The Fatherland will certainly support this initiative so that it does not just remain an initiative, but becomes a real thing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-02-18_U67	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The negotiations are over. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 138. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 4 March at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is over and the session is over. Thank you. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.16 a.m.
