ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start the briefing and, as usual, first the attendance check. 21 members of the Riigikogu are present, 80 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps and Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. The speakers of the questions registered first get the floor, they have the opportunity to clarify the question, then one question from the floor. There are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U2	The first question will be asked today by Kaja Kallas and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U3	Good chairman of the sitting! Prime Minister! Leading scientists all over the world and our scientific council seem to agree that there will be another wave of the virus. No one knows how strong it's gonna be, how big this wave is gonna be, but it's probably impossible to eradicate the disease. So we need to prepare for this wave in good time. I am interested in the government's position as to how well we are prepared for this next wave and what we have done for it. And perhaps also what we have learned from the emergency situation and what we would do next time in organising social life in such a situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for that question. I think that is a very important question. Just now, I also ended an almost half-hour video conference with the Director-General of the WHO, where we discussed with colleagues and with him and my team how we are prepared for a possible second wave, which are the lessons. I agree with the situation you described that the second wave is coming. Whether it comes at the end of the summer or in the autumn, it is difficult to predict. What have we done? As we can see, the crisis is not just in medicine, only in one sector. It has gone into the whole economy, including finances and economic measures, the next steps of the economy, and I think the long-term view of the economy, too, is what we need. And this will be brought to our desk by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications this month. We have a deal. The second view is what we have to do at international level. I think Estonia has shown a pretty good leadership role here. For example, opening the borders of our region, the Baltic states. Many have said that it is even unique in the European Union, how the three countries agree in this way. I think it's a good experience we can share. Also, decisions on the border between Estonia and Finland - this cooperation between our two countries is indeed a very good, trusting basis. For which we should be better prepared, it is not a secret, it is personal protective equipment. We're better prepared than we were in the spring. How big a new wave is, how powerful this wave is, of course, is a question of its own. I'm sure the hospitals are better prepared. Hospital hospitals can be transferred very quickly to the COVID regime. You also asked what the lesson was. It's that, as far as possible, I wouldn't do to stop or stop this much scheduled treatment. This is certainly an issue that we need to think seriously about when it comes to the new wave. Of course, medicine and food security are also in our focus. Now on: on which we are certainly better prepared, research is. If you look at the research currently underway in connection with COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, we can see that there are almost a dozen of them: different tests to help us get better information about what is happening in society. It gives us greater certainty that we are better prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U5	Echo Kallas, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U6	Thank you. I think it really is very important how the health system is ready for a new wave and what the lessons are. I am pleased to hear that the situation with personal protective equipment is likely to be better. Now, you touched a little on the science side. I am interested in the use of data: how we can quickly identify the lesions and whether we can quickly separate the sick from the healthy and all such lessons. Can we quickly collect data and use it quickly to prevent society from locking up? I am asking more specifically: one thing is all this about the organisation of health care, including, for example, the closure of private medical facilities. I understood from your answer that it would probably not be required so clearly next time that the focus would be on specific hospitals dealing with infectious diseases. But I also ask what is going to be outside the health care sector: does it have to be taken into account that schools are going back to prison? Or is it based on the knowledge that the press is currently resisting that children rather do not carry the virus, and maybe closing schools next time is not the step being taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U7	Thank you. I start by saying that I think it is a very important guiding principle that any sensitive personal data must be protected. This is, I think, the position we need to build on. It's not like we're gonna start throwing these data to the left and to the right. We need to protect people's sensitive personal data. Point one. Point two is that one lesson I did not mention in answer to the first question is the same control breathing apparatus. Their supply must certainly be greater than it was at the beginning of spring 2020. Now go on: you said whether the whole society should be locked down. I do not agree with you; Estonia has not locked up society, especially compared to other countries. I think I have already said that our golden key has been the responsible behaviour of the Estonian people. And I will continue to be in the position that these rules have actually been followed, and this has greatly contributed to the fact that the high potential for dissemination has not materialised. Another factor, of course, is that frontline workers, medical science, hospitals, medical care, doctors, nurses, nursing homes, have made a very important contribution to controlling the spread of the virus. Now, onward, you asked about private medicine. It's clear that now we're dealing with divination, both of us. We don't know what the second wave is. Some have said it is a tsunami, some have said it is a wave of such very high or large waves. But these same people have also said that maybe the virus will disappear. As I answered the first question, I think that this probability is not very high. In the case of private medicine, it is clear that, if there is a risk of infection, of course, it must also be taken into account that these facilities must be closed, cleaned at some point and then reopened. I didn't say that scheduled treatment should stay one hundred percent open. I said that it would not make sense to shut down the planned treatment completely, if at all possible. We are really smarter today and we know how to separate the infectious part, the so-called black part and the clean part. It'll give us a lot more. All this stopping the infection, I think right now we're a lot smarter than we were in the spring. Are you gonna go back to school or not? Well, we don't know what a virus outbreak is. But this statement that you said that it is not dangerous for children, yes, this is what scientists, doctors and professors claim.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! At the beginning of your first answer, you claimed that there would certainly be more masks and other protections as well. Are you going to be more specific: did you mean autumn? At least news is now spreading in the press that these masks ordered by Jaak Aabi have not reached Estonia. Or is the press just lost, and you mean autumn, as I suppose? The situation has not improved so much at the moment. But the other half of the question is about locking up society. In my opinion, we underestimate the invisible effects and social concerns that come with economic concern. And we can be sure that if the same methodology is launched in the autumn, it will no longer work with the gentleness that it is now having. The concentration of weight in humans is clearly greater. And perhaps you yourself also noticed that before you could enforce such a certain opening, people already opened themselves up and, in fact, their control was already lost. This suggests that the tension inside people is a little bit greater than we can imagine here together. But the size of our resources is a cause for concern. We understand that if, on the one hand, social resources and mental resilience are reduced, then, on the other hand, economic resources, including money, are reduced at a very high rate. In recent days, we have heard that the unemployment fund measure should be extended to cover possible wage subsidies, but at the same time we know that the unemployment fund's money is intended to alleviate unemployment in a literal sense and not just to provide wage subsidies. Do you support the continuation of this measure? And where do these funds really come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U10	Thank you. Well, you had five or six very fundamental questions here, I don't know. I think I'm taking a good input from the beginning of Question Time that we should try to make this debate even more intense and denser. For my part, I will also try to help to keep even more of this communication going by addressing both the lessons learned and the exit strategy and economic activation. The reserves, yes, I did say that the situation with personal protective equipment is better. What will be the wave at the end of summer or autumn, we don't know. Today we see that the status quo is better. Of course, the infection is in decline. We can say today that we have reached the threshold of normal everyday life and that there are greater personal protective equipment or reserves in all hospitals and nursing homes. I think it is one lesson that the country should actually create its own central reserve, the question is, for how long a period of time. For a minimum of two months, I think. If it gets sour, these funds are not recovered from the world again, prices are high, logistics is not working, then in reality the state also has some sort of own personal protective equipment reserve. We're working on it today. Now, you said again that society was completely locked down. It wasn't like that, society wasn't completely locked up. We know the countries of Europe that were much more locked. But maybe one lesson is that I will answer both Kaja Kallas and your question, that if it is possible to isolate local infection sites in any way, it is worth doing. We had very good cooperation when I personally held a meeting with the police, the Rescue Board and the City of Tartu, by the way, with the municipality where you once worked. There has been very good cooperation with the Mayor, the Rector of the University of Tartu, Professor Lutsar. The same dormitory on Raatus Street, house 22, if I'm not mistaken. If we can localize a fireplace, isolate it on site, it doesn't have to mean that if there's a problem at Mustamäe, we'll lock Kihnu. Certainly this is one lesson to try to isolate fireplaces with a specific address, if possible. Now, the unemployment fund measure, yes, has been good. This is appreciated by both employers and trade unions. Yesterday we had a very thorough tripartite debate. As you know, I restored it years ago, in the meantime, the debate with the Confederation of Employers and the unions was stopped. Yesterday was a very serious debate. Both sides see that this measure should continue. The State also sees that the continuation of this measure must continue. Already today, the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund is meeting on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U12	And the next question, number two, will be answered by Jaak Juske, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U13	Honourable Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. On Monday, after a two-month break, the school houses will be opened again. And although different opinions have come from the Ministry on the completion of this academic year, in the end it will hopefully be clear in the house. I very much agree that families and schools and teachers are more interested in what will happen next school year. I'm just curious about the new year's arrangement. Has the Ministry considered that if there were to be a second or third wave of the virus, which are the criteria, how badly the virus has to rage, that school houses would be closed again? Will they be closed separately, or will all schools be shut down, and what happens if the virus doesn't go bad, but it still moves around? How to protect high-risk teachers in the new academic year? As we know, the average age of teachers is quite high.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U14	Thank you. Thank you very much. We'll pick up where we put this year together. If I'm not mistaken, there was a few days' break from sharing information. When we look at the summaries of this academic year, I assure you that these things are still being discussed both at school level and at teacher level. For example, most schools have decided that they will only issue the summary scores for this academic year at the end of May. So we're still collecting data from schools, but in terms of teaching, we need to move to the next academic year in terms of substance. It is necessary to analyse how much it is necessary to make up for the failure to achieve in the spring, which are the target groups who feel that changes in the organisation of studies should be made next year, whether they need the support of the ministry, for example, some legislative changes. This discussion is ongoing, and since teachers work full-time until Midsummer, we still have time to analyse and we have planned it at both ministry and sub-office level. In order to go to the planning of the next academic year, we first need the summaries of this academic year. The other half of your question was about new waves. Well, first of all, we have learned a lot from this crisis. As far as possible, we also want to use this experience for the next crisis, whether it be COVID or some other infectious disease. There's a lot of work going on right now on predicting. No one knows why SARS died, but the COVID has risen so strongly. All analyses shall be taken into account. As Irja Lutsar said on Tuesday, it already seems to her that all scientists compete in their own way, who can write as many scientific articles as possible at the earliest possible rate. Reading material on this subject, which is also a reference material, is very much provided, also at WHO and European level. Next year, at the beginning of the academic year, can we think that we're going straight to distance school? No, we don't have a plan like that today. It's a longing to get back to school. We have targeted groups that are not suited to distance learning, and we see that there are signs of social exclusion. We have kids like that. NGO Main things summarised the data and said that the number of children who need additional support has clearly increased. So we still have to keep going to school, if possible, until the last moment and rather be ready to react first by school or by region.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U15	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U16	Thank you. I still want to ask you a question. What have you learned in the last few months? What are the conclusions that could be drawn better if schools were to be closed in autumn? How can schools and families be better helped?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U17	Thank you. In our culture, it is very common to always worry and, above all, to make sad summaries. But first, I want to say that we have done very, very well. When we look at the cooperation between our students and teachers and parents, we see that in this very difficult situation, it has worked perfectly. Of course, there are also concerns. We may also see in our family that there are teachers with whom communication is not working so well that there are substances that are very difficult for a child to acquire. But the ingenuity and desire to succeed in this academic year has been very, very much, and such austerity, mutual support and teaching are still very nice to see. We're going back there on March 13. Our ability to start learning in the digital world in such a large number was very good. We were more prepared than any other country, and that is what I say with absolute certainty. Parallel educational materials, that all educational kits exist in digital and ordinary form, are not available elsewhere in the countries. The general willingness of our teachers to go to the computer has been very great. But the shortcomings we noticed during this process, of course, are. Since there is no proper Internet coverage in all regions. It was hard to work with several children, just the network couldn't survive, including Zoom's environment or other groups such as Skype and WhatsApp. There are all kinds of technical problems. For example, in 40 minutes, the hour will be turned off, maybe in the middle of a sentence. Sometimes old windows get in front of them, they're not able to close them, and children don't have this experience. Of course, there are additional trainings, or vebinares, where we provide security and more information. But the other side, which we must not forget: there are people for whom it simply does not suit. That's how you feel about isolation and leaving alone. Even though you're in front of a computer and you're communicating, you're closed to some of your environments. Of course, we also need to think together about how we offer more support services and such psychological counselling. An individual approach is needed alongside the computer world. But once again, as for the next academic year, the great desire and dream of all of us is that we act wisely during this summer, observe the hygiene rules, try to create as few additional contacts as possible. It also depends very much on how much movement is going to be across the border. Nobody wants a new massive closure, so we'd rather try to isolate the local infections.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U18	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U19	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister, According to the Government's proposal, in times of emergency, verbal assessments in schools do not need to be converted into numerical grades at all levels of school. We currently have a bill of similar content in the Riigikogu, which says that word estimates should not be converted into figures in the first and second levels of school. How do you assess: if the Riigikogu decides to adopt a draft law that is currently pending, will something bad happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U20	Thank you, good questioner! Excellent debate! There have certainly been a lot of very intelligent thoughts in the Riigikogu on how to improve the basic school and upper secondary school law. It's a pretty patchy law. My first very clear priority, which I said about two years ago here, is that the basic school and upper secondary school law should actually be rewritten capitalically. I absolutely don't like these patched laws. After all, we fixed the basic educational code in the previous Riigikogu. We started with basic school, pre-school childcare, vocational education and higher education in the Education Code and now we want to continue with the remaining stages. And not in institutional terms at all, but in education levels. The question is not whether you are in comprehensive school or upper secondary school, but whether you are in primary or secondary education. No matter how old you are, there are certain standards. That would be my first preference. Of course, this patching, too, is a fine exercise, but we see in the Committee on Culture, analysing the provisions, that there are very many contradictions. That would be my first answer. Now the second part of the question. Are we prepared for such a change in a broader sense? The multiplicity of opportunities in the Estonian education system is our charm. The more we give different options, the better. But I'm very cautious about the new, I think, very well-founded models and the obligations they impose. There will be opposition to wider responsibilities. I believe that the subject of the final exams was also emotional, because everyone had very clear views. However, if what we are discussing is taken as one of many opportunities, I believe that the diversity of opportunities will be supported. When you examine the Government of the Republic's opinion on this subject, our disagreement was purely that we would like to come up with a comprehensive package. The intention to develop it is now a bit stale during the crisis, but it is together as material and, during the development of the strategy, the main issues were discussed with full awareness. There are, of course, question marks on many issues, because the proposals are very controversial. I believe that the evaluation, both external and internal, has been on this table, and the Committee on Culture will have a very decisive word on how, in what form we are going ahead with it. As you know as a member of the Committee on Culture, I have also suggested that we should have a brainstorming with the Commission on whether we are ready to move forward with these complete packages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U22	Next question, number three. Performs Jürgen Ligi and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U23	Thank you. Mr. Ratas, last time you refused to answer my question, what do you have to offer to industries that depend on foreign workers? Agriculture is currently the most acutely dependent on migrant workers. I get questions all the time about what I have to do, how I clean my crops out of the field. I'm asking you the same question. Your government has an anti-Ukrainian voice, and you can't get in the way of throwing this Kremlin theme in the trash. Oleg Samorodni has just written a story that not even Russia will drive the Ukrainians away, that Estonia is the most closed. Please tell me what you have to say to those people whose entrepreneurship, life, harvest depends on whether they get people in the field or in the barn or not! Why does it leave behind the xenophobia that one party is running in your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U24	Thank you, dear Jürgen Ligi. I will certainly always be happy to answer your questions, and I would say that I never even thought in my mind that I didn't want to answer your questions in any way. On the contrary, they are always interesting, substantive, and there is a lot of wisdom to bring. First of all, about the danger that, as you are now saying, has to do with Ukraine. Once again, Ukraine is very important to Estonia. Ukraine's partnership, Ukraine's support, whether or through the Eastern Partnership, is important. And here I think we are with you, Mr. Near, completely on the side of the front line, if we want to support agriculture, to support it enthusiastically and enthusiastically. I have not always seen this by reform party policy makers in the last ten years. But now you want to support Estonian agriculture and we have found an ally in each other. We must, of course, look at the current situation, what is actually happening in our labour market today. The labour market situation is difficult. There is no point in creating any illusions that, at the end of the emergency situation, unemployment will stagnate overnight and unemployment will disappear. I've taken out fresh information, I'm sure the members of the Riigikogu will be interested. May 10th, that's as of Sunday, there were 49741 people who were unemployed. The rate of registered unemployment is 7.7% and the number of registered unemployed has increased by 1179 people in a week, or 2%. The number of registered unemployed has increased by approximately 11% in the month. It all means that our people are losing their jobs. And, of course, it is important to me that the people of Estonia still have work and bread. Mr Kruuse himself has been Minister for Rural Affairs or Agriculture and is concerned about this unemployment fund measure. But we must certainly protect the people of Estonia first and foremost on our labour market. And for seasonal workers, we have done some relief in the agricultural sector. You know very well that we have extended the opportunity to work in Estonia until 31 July. I think this will provide some relief for seasonal work in the agricultural sector. But I certainly do not want to say that this is the final solution, that this issue has now been resolved and that there is no problem. Of course there is a problem, of course it is a challenge, I do not deny it at all. This is a serious challenge. And all in all, by the end of the day, this is also a question of our country's food security.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U25	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U26	Thank you. I didn't understand anything you were talking about! You commented on me, you commented on Urmas Kruuse. Personally, I have, by the way, negotiated that agricultural subsidies should be higher. It was Andrus Ansip who finally achieved this increase in the Council. It's got nothing to do with this. We're not involved right now. Those farmers who keep their crops in a field that needs at least 5,000 seasonal workers who need 200 milkers will be touched. And these people's work permits end. More than 1000 strawberry pickers are needed and it is obvious that the unemployed in Estonia do not now tend to be milking or tractor stunts. Please answer my question actually: how do you solve the problem that the normal movement of labour has stopped and the work permits have ended? What do you have to say to agriculture, to construction, to construction, to the industry that still has orders? Don't tell me, tell them anything practical!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U27	Thank you. On the one hand, I agree that the movement of labour has stopped in today's crisis. Yeah, that's true. Today, I think that the big solution is, of course, to find a way out of this crisis and to restore a situation where the workforce can really begin to move. After all, we have not changed the basic principles for foreign workers and seasonal workers. It is true that it has changed that now that the contract of employment for a person ends, I have to return to my home country in one month or find a new way to work. In the case of seasonal work in agriculture, as I said, the situation where we were a month ago has been extended until 31 July. There was no relief before. Today it is and, in any case, it has improved the situation in strawberry farming and elsewhere in agriculture. True, it does not extend, as you indicated, to construction works. It does not extend there; it applies only to agriculture. You're saying our countrymen aren't going, I don't know, picking strawberries or doing other work on strawberry fields. But we can see that unemployment is rising, and this problem at one point makes people feel in their incomes. I think that this will give rise to the possibility that people who remain unemployed in other areas of Estonia will at some point decide to go to agriculture, for example. But, of course, that one doesn't apply to one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U28	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! In fact, you had nothing to say to those people who need this workforce. And I'll explain why you don't have to say it. Yesterday, in the Committee on Rural Affairs, we had a meeting with the Minister for Rural Affairs, Arvo Aller, and the main thing that disturbed so many members of the committee was, in fact, that there was no will to solve the problem. This lack of will was reflected in the attempt to give us information that very many countries are not letting people into the country, they are facing a similar problem. And we have good solutions, we have students coming to the rescue, and I am now looking at the Minister for Education and Research, who has clearly said that they will not solve the everyday problems of agriculture, we are coming to work with the unemployed, who were just under 30000 before the crisis, and who have gained some 20,000 and a little more. But the problem is that there's no will. The European Commission has made a very clear distinction for agriculture, and this distinction means that if governments want to, they can bring in the workforce directly. Today we are talking about extending the possibility of working in agriculture until the end of the season, but neither is the government prepared to do so. And here's my specific question: what do you say to a farmer who, over a month, has tried to find a hundred employees through the unemployment fund for strawberry fields, and has received five answers, five CVs from potential workers, three of whom have already said 'no' by now? In two and a half weeks, we need to start harvesting. What's your solution? This solution, proposed by the government and Arvo Aller, will not be home for Christmas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U30	Thank you. I see you've got agriculture home! Before Victory Day. That is, I would say, music to my ears, Mr. Kruuse, and you are now so serious about rural and agricultural affairs. If you'd done it a few years ago! But that's it. First of all, what you said was that there was an increase in labour shortages, well, I don't know, I got the impression that you said $30,000 to $50,000 and that it wasn't like anything. That's quite a lot. If we make a comparison, the number of registered unemployed has increased so much in the month that it is 62% higher than last year. That's quite a lot. And let's count on the uncertainty we have now! We had a very interesting debate with your party chairman Kaja Kallas on how we are prepared for the next wave. We do not think today, as I have told you, that when the emergency comes to an end, everything will be fine in the labour market. It's not okay! It's clear that it's not okay. What are these solutions? A: I told you that we have extended the possibility of seasonal work in agriculture until 31 July. As I have also admitted to Mr Near, this is not a complete solution. B: I said that it is also a question of how we protect Estonia's own residents on the labour market. I'm sure that'll give you some sort of solution. In your example, this is not a very big solution. At the same time, I think that this example of generalising the entire agricultural sector, for the whole sector, is a bit early. I say that the people of Estonia who have lost their jobs will at some point also turn to this sector, but not to one, as I replied to Jürgen Ligi. I'm sure that problem's upstairs. And now this third issue that you raised, looking at the Minister of Education and Science as well. I look at him every day, too, and I know that's not a solution. It's not like we're gonna take the students to the fields from school. The student's job since September 1st is a school. He's got to learn. Of course, this is not a solution, so this issue will not be resolved. Another thing is that during the summer period, for example, through student chess, certain groups are in the fields. I think we should let the student-crester work again this summer, regardless of the virus. Our situation today shows that the student chess may begin. It is positive that during the summer period, either strawberry farming or the wider agricultural sector are working. Then there's no study. But, of course, it doesn't solve the problem, it's just creating a working habit for a young person.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U31	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U32	Question number 4. It is presented by Helmen Kütt, corresponding to the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Yesterday, there was news about children's camps and chess jobs during the summer. I have a big request for you to open a little more today than the numbers from the media. You have had a discussion at government level and, in fact, the local authorities are looking forward to this information and, of course, the chess organisers. I'm glad if you're going to take this a little bit further.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U34	Thank you for your excellent question. Unfortunately, yesterday, despite a very long and thorough debate, hours were missing. We were not able to address all the very important issues of the exit strategy, which can still be addressed in June-July-August. In principle, I can say that the Government of the Republic is very positive. The expectation that children and young people could spend their time in camps, chess and perhaps project camps in a reasonable and fun way during the summer is great. Or they, too, have already said that they would be happy to organise different activities during the summer. We realize that children have been home a long time and want to go out, want to spend time with their peers. The government clearly supports the mitigation of such restrictions. But yes, the final decision comes Thursday. Maybe I could mark a few moments that the cultural master also pointed out in the "Actual Camera" yesterday. For example, one proposal that was supported by the Scientific Council was that young people could spend the summer together. These groups were initially very limited, and now it has been proposed that fifteen groups of children are allowed. Of course, there are additional conditions, given all possible risks. I mean, they're minors, too. There is such a difference that we place a great deal of emphasis on hygiene. We want to be able to wash our hands with warm water everywhere, but it is probably not very widely used in camps, because it must also be taken into account that these are highly flammable substances. Therefore, the guidelines of the camp managers state that we must take this aspect into account in the case of young people. Young people are very creative, and a desolator can do all sorts of exciting things. They should be in canteens, for example, and where you go to wash or lighten yourself. But safety must be guaranteed everywhere. The main rule is to wash your hands and keep your distance. Now the size of the camps. We have the largest camps planned for up to 300 participants. A very large number of bookings show that interest is very high. The second half of June wants to start and the Scientific Council is supportive so that up to 300 large camps and different project camps can start in mid-June.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U35	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U36	Thank you very much for this answer and for the information. We hope that in the next Question Time, the Prime Minister will be able to shed more light on this subject if you analyse it even more at the government meeting on Thursday and learn something more. My question is about graduating. When you answered a question in this Chamber, you said it was possible. The kinship could stay at home, but the shows could happen. Since then, a number of school leaders have turned and asked how you really imagined it. Do you need to apply to the Health Board for permission and make sure that the disinfectants are in place and that everyone tracks 2 meters? How is it, is the Ministry of Education and Research looking at it and giving advice? Municipalities are a little concerned: who is responsible, how can it be arranged without breaking any rules? True, the emergency situation ends on Sunday, but the restrictions remain. The spread of the virus has not stopped, although the incidence in Estonia is very low. Maybe you'll light it up in a few words. I understand state secondary schools are directly in the state's information field, but what about ordinary primary schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U37	Thank you for your excellent question. I understand that a lot of schools have already announced that regular graduatings 1/8. In the 10th and 11th grade, it is more in the form of a class manager's class and rather in a distance. We're talking about graduating from the ninth and the 12th grade. We understand young people, leaving school is a very important event in their lives. We all remember finishing our schools. But as discussed at the height of the epidemic, such a super-festivities are not going to come this year. This year, it is also possible to issue graduation certificates digitally and it has been asked whether young people really are going to receive only one e-mail, and that is like everyone else. Can you get an electronic e-mail and the school is finished? Fortunately, thanks to human behavior, this whole pandemic situation has come to the point that we can talk about a real meeting. Last week, we sent possible questions to schools, but there really is a lot to decide on. I understand they want answers. Firstly, I say that there has been a signal from the Scientific Advisory Board, and repeatedly from the Health Board, that risk groups should be excluded from gatherings and that in mid-June, the end of June is too early to give up. All the letters of notice from the Scientific Advisory Board and Professor Lutsar have confirmed this separately, it has been said that the gathering of more older people is certainly something that could be avoided. But we can't imagine an act where people who are so proud of their grandchildren can't come. We have therefore asked to consider the possibility that parents and relatives could rather be at home and observe it from a distance. Secondly, it is very clear that there will be restrictions on even larger gatherings in June. This also means that this classic prom that young people are expecting is very, very unlikely in June. Rather, however, our signal is a request that please do not have graduation parties. As scientists have said: COVID-19 is a party disease, and that is where the greatest outbreaks have started. Now other prayers: keeping distance, general hygiene. The summer of Estonia is, of course, very unpredictable, but very many schools have also thought that they would do an act outside if possible. That way we can keep as much distance together as possible. And a lot of smart digital solutions have been offered. I think there's gonna be some nice solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U38	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I realized from the Prime Minister's answer that you guys look at each other quite often, and in a way, looking at that face has also benefited. At least you have dared to say in the government that using school pupils to save agriculture is not realistic, it is not possible. I agree with that. School time is a time of study and I do not want to live in a country where young people are forced to simply be sent to work in a field because adults cannot solve problems in the sector. But you were talking about chess, and the Prime Minister also referred to chess, which, in terms of work education and also summer holidays, is absolutely logical. The latest news tells us that farmers who have tried to get chess out of their fields have received letters in a row that cannot be allowed, because the government has not specifically announced whether and if so, in what way and from what date it is possible to let chess groups into the fields. The second concern is that, and I very much hope that you will also pass it on to the Minister for Rural Affairs. He didn't listen to our words. Please look at him too. This concern is that workers who are already listed in the short-term employment register cannot enter the country. The landlords are asking if we need to lock up the sector. Please tell me why common sense does not prevail in this government, although you have also expressed a more sanity than the Minister for Rural Affairs in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U40	Thank you. First of all, so that there's no strange question why we're always looking at each other there. I'll explain. Indeed, since the beginning of March, the special committee meets every day. That's why we often look at each other. But common sense is very well represented in this government of the Republic; all ministers are very sane. I'm convinced of that. I communicate with people a lot. The Minister for Rural Affairs had a slight glitch in responding to a very skilled journalist. Let's think about a few years ago when someone came into politics. We'll still give the Minister for Rural Affairs some time to adjust so he can survive the cross-examinations. It's nice to have fun here and discuss this glitch, but of course, the Minister for Rural Affairs didn't mean that children only go to work instead of school, but that children get work experience. And that's good. To sum up this discussion, I say that we are all in favour of children getting more work experience in extracurricular times. There have been a number of debates on how to relax the rules that really protect young people on the one hand, but on the other, they limit them. I understand the concerns of the Chevrons, but we must have analysed very carefully how we emerge from the crisis, when we apply some kind of relief. One of the principles followed in Estonia and in other countries where mitigation has been applied is that these steps must be step-by-step. There must be 14 days between them, during which additional information can be collected where new infections have occurred, maybe new fires. But there are also a number of scientific studies in progress, where a broad-scale analysis is carried out and we receive feedback that has taken place in society in 14 days, when there has been some major relief. Now from the children's camps. Firstly, we have a school year until 10 June and there is no rush in this sense. But the reason why this additional analysis was requested is that otherwise children have local contacts at school, but new groups, new movements are formed in the camps. The infection of children is very low, but new contacts are emerging and therefore more time was needed to take the next steps. But we'll definitely make that decision on Thursday. As I have already said in response to Helmen Hunt, I repeat that the attitude of the Government of the Republic has been positive, and on Thursday, the decision to open the summer of chess and camps must be taken immediately after the end of the school year. In addition, we will consider how there could be more activity during the summer. The opportunities for young people to spend the summer healthy and do so in Estonia are certainly very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U42	The next question is number five. Asks Taavi in Kõiva and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U43	Thank you. Good George! I've told you many times, if Rail Baltic goes to a ditch on your watch, I'll take it very personally. You have assured me, and more importantly, the public repeatedly that the construction of Rail Baltic is in the best condition. The last time you did it in this briefing was a week or two ago. Now, in recent weeks, an important part of the government, namely one of the political parties of the coalition, has publicly stated that the thing that actually received a letter in the coalition agreement has to be stopped. In the Coalition Agreement, I looked up again, it says that if the European Union's contribution to the financing of this project should be lower, it will be revised. And the second point says that the infrastructure is being built so far. So it makes perfect sense that what Mr Helme said was actually written in the so-called milk agreement. And it is, of course, extremely unfortunate, because connecting Rail Baltic and, more generally, Estonia with other Europe is strategically important for Estonia. My question is: what should we do in a situation where an important part of the government has publicly stated that Rail Baltic is a harmful project and Rail Baltic is not needed by Estonia, and at the same time the government must start applying again to Europe for money already received from previous governments, because it will not be able to take advantage of the quarter billion that has already been allocated? What can be done in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U44	Thank you, good Javier! I'm telling you the truth: you didn't scare me by saying that if Rail Baltic is in a ditch, you'll take it personally. Why are you scaring me? What ditch? We are not building this railway in a ditch, we are still building it on the dam, and this locomotive from Tallinn to Riga and Riga to Kaunas and from there to the centre of Europe. What can I say? I can tell you right now that things are going well. It was just a serious and very interesting and meaningful conversation with the Prime Ministers of the Baltic States. As I said in reply to the previous question: this very unique decision of the Baltic States, that we have been able to find a common section when opening borders, has really gained recognition here and there. But I also discussed the topic of Rail Baltic with my Latvian and Lithuanian counterparts, of course. We all confirmed that this is important to us, important to our countries, and we will move on. I took out the data that is currently on Estonian territory. About 200 million euros have been allocated from European Union funds for the planned activities and payments have been made to design Rail Baltic Estonia route and terminals as of the end of March. I'm looking at this whole construction schedule, of course, it's intense. In that sense, you're right, Javier. At the same time, I think it is the biggest investment project in Estonia that has regained independence, especially in international terms. You're asking what to do. We have to build. What else to do here but build this railroad needs to be built. What else can I tell you? And I also want to say this: I understand that you want to break a political crack between the EKRE and the Centre Party and show that I'm close to the EKRE, and you're distant. We are in a coalition with the EKRE and the Fatherland, and cooperation is good. What is written in the coalition agreement is also written in a document approved by the Riigikogu. If the percentages change, of course, this project will have to be reviewed. If you really think that if, I don't know, the relationship would change and be 30:70 instead of 85:15 so far, I wouldn't have to discuss it with the Riigikogu, then you are very wrong. I'm sure we should discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U45	Taavi in the garment, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U46	Thank you. You seem to have stopped your speech just the moment you saw that number, how much of that few hundred million has actually been used up. And I suppose for a reason. I can help you. That's 42 million. It is spent in the 2016 RES, or the money allocated for this purpose in the country's budget strategy for 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 in an interesting way, it coincides exactly with the time of your governments. 17% or even slightly less than 17% of this is currently being used. Let it be for each listener to assess whether 17% of 100 is sufficient, whether this is progress and whether we are doing well in building it. I would point out that in this 17% too, many constructions have already started in 2016. Take, for example, the tram route to the airport, which has been repeatedly emphasised. It was already built in August 2016. I am pleased that you and the Prime Minister of Latvia and Lithuania all the time confirm that this project is important. I will be honest, I am not worried about Latvia and Lithuania, I am absolutely sure that they will do their part. I am worried about whether Estonia will do the same. At the recent session of the Committee on European Union Affairs, where both Minister of Economic Affairs Aas and Minister of Finance Helme were present, it was quite embarrassing to say that. There is no need for me to make this gap in your government - everyone who was present in the Committee on European Union Affairs saw it with his own eyes. There, Mr Helme quite specifically said that the plan was as follows: if possible, viaducts and tram routes and railways should be left unbuilt. How do you comment on your government minister's view of this? And is this the working atmosphere that governs your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U47	I don't know, good Taavi Clothes, do you think we're gonna build some kind of miracle train that magically flies from one place to another? Well, we're not gonna do that. But then let's do the construction. In 2017, the tram route connecting Rail Baltic and Ülemiste terminal to Tallinn airport was completed, with a cost of approximately 11 million euros. Saustinõmme viaduct construction will take place in May 2019. Saustinõmme viaduct is necessary to enable cars using Tallinn ring roads to get across Rail Baltic. There was a beautiful event, your honorary chairman, Siim Kallas, was present, he was in a good mood, had no bad words to say. Let's go! The procurement is underway for the relocation of high voltage lines in the immediate vicinity of Rail Baltic. Do you think when you build this railroad, you're just gonna put down tracks? High voltage lines need to be moved. The conclusion of the agreement is in May-June 2020. Next, by the end of this year, procurements have been announced concerning seven places crossing Rail Baltic: five viaducts and two eco-ducts in Harju and Raplamaa, so that the animals can move there beautifully. For example, Assaku and Hellvälja road viaducts, Rapla-Varbola road viaduct, Urge and Laane ecoduct in Rapla County, all of them will start in spring 2021 at the latest. Now, in 2021, 26 Rail Baltic Bridges and overpasses and once again seven ecoducts are planned to start, as well as the construction of the Old Port tram line and the first construction works at the Pärnu and Ülemiste passenger terminal. All these objects, with the exception of this tramline, are necessary only for the construction of Rail Baltic. So I'm telling you, it works like a boat kitchen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U48	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I have a slight suspicion that the sailors on this ship will starve, where the work will be done in the same way as in this government. But that's it. With big projects, like Rail Baltic, it is often the case that these things need to be carried out constantly. The current behaviour of the EKRE reminds the observer quite a bit of an Italian strike that does nothing, but only pretends that we do not need it. The objects you mentioned, including the connection to the Tallinn Airport of Lennart Meri, are well remembered for their start. We were in the government, and I still recall that at the time, this was done with great care. But a few more things. I don't think you're gonna get proper media reviews after all. My fellow Members also pointed out that, for example, in TV3, a man with a hat who reminded the Minister for the Interior of your government said that if one of the coalition partners did not agree with something, it would not come. And he repeated it just in case, so that the viewers would understand: it is as simple as that! That's the question. If, in terms of attitudes and editing, we are actually constantly signaling that we do not want to be in touch with Europe, that we do not want to be in touch with it, then we do not need to keel, that keel is already in place in the government, but it is being tried to hide. Maybe you'll explain now what the government's plan is and how this government is managed. Are all partners in agreement? And what do you think: if this money goes unused, if the project stops, slows down or fails, will we have to pay it back?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U50	Thank you. Well, I guess the questions go up and down. Mr. Clothes has attacked very hard here. With you, we have always been in line with long-term economic projects. When I saw your question on the screen, I immediately thought that in you Rail Baltic would make you feel special, because it is part of the future Tallinn-Helsing tunnel. I don't think you're backing down here. You don't back down on your words, and as we promised, if God gives you health and life, we'll go with our grandchildren to see that tunnel someday. Now, Rail Baltic, what can I say? It's in the coalition contract. The outfit says it's not, well, I don't know, I've signed it and I'm saying it's in. But maybe Mr. Clothes is thinking of another coalition agreement. Anyway, the EKRE, the Centre Party and the Fatherland Treaty have not been signed by Javier. But if there's any interest, well, come on, we'll talk through it, why not? It's worth supporting. It's a good deal. Let's go. Nobody wants to change that coalition agreement. Point 1. Point 2 is this: jokes, when the funding bases change, of course this plan will have to be reviewed. And this is also stated in the international agreement, the agreement between Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, which has been approved here in the Riigikogu. I can't imagine if you say we're not gonna check it out. Of course, it needs to be reviewed. After all, this places much greater obligations on the Estonian taxpayer. But that doesn't mean we have to stop it. Next, you'll be upset that we don't want to be in touch with Europe. Look at the size of the projects that have been launched in recent years! Even if it's the synchronisation of the energy system with that of Central Europe. It's really big and big, isn't it? We've got very good deals in this MFF. I would like to congratulate the previous President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, here before you. I personally had several meetings with him on this subject, it got going, and we can see that we are actually still able to use these funds effectively under this MFF. The last speech on the Little Strait Dam was with the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen. I said that's our priority in the future MFF. However, our electricity system is a concrete example of connecting to Europe. As far as Rail Baltic is concerned, indeed, there will be problems and obstacles, of course. But I think we can get through these stumps, we can move on with this project. But actually, I do need your help. I have asked the Riigikogu that we need to make efforts to ensure that a governance scheme between Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania is agreed until Rail Baltic is completed. The help of the members of the Baltic Assembly is definitely needed here. So come on in and help me!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U51	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U52	The next question is number 6, by Katri Raik and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U53	Honourable Chairman! Good Prime Minister! The ERR has done an excellent job during the crisis. I particularly welcome the increase in the credibility of ETV+. However, the coalition ambassadors today, when selecting or appointing experts to the ERR Council, showed from a servant that this was a political agreement. How do you feel about this as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U54	Thank you. In my opinion, it is first of all necessary to adopt the Broadcasting Act from this very hall, which governs the election of the members of the Broadcasting Council. It was adopted by the Riigikogu more than ten years ago, on 18 January 2007. And the section has not been changed by different Riigikogu configurations. Now, the formation of the Council. The council consists of members of the Riigikogu and recognised experts in the field of national broadcasting. On the proposal of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu appoints one member from each political group represented in the Riigikogu, as well as four experts from among the recognised experts in the field of national broadcasting whose mandate lasts five years. I think this is what the Riigikogu has done. Now, I don't even know exactly what you're going to do, you should specify your question, who you're accusing or who's not gonna fit in with those members. I took a little look back and, frankly, I can see who these three people are now going to be arguing about. I don't think two of them are definitely in a party, but I haven't checked people like that. However, there have also been people with party backgrounds in the National Broadcasting Council. But I don't know, I never thought of it that way. Indeed, my respect for Paavo Nõges cannot be said to have somehow pursued the policy of the Reform Party. He worked at the Ministry of Culture, did his job there, and now he's in the private sector. He went out of there voluntarily, I get it. So political members have been there before. As for today's new members, I have not checked, but, as far as I know, at least two of them are not in any political party. I can't tell you about a third person, maybe he's not in any party either. I would also like to say that I agree with your praise to the national broadcasting. During this crisis, they have been a very good partner to us, a very operational partner. Although a small criticism was here in the Riigikogu, if I was mistaken, on 12 March, when I had the request to make a political statement before you and they did not make a transfer of it. Some members of the Riigikogu therefore shook on national broadcasting. But in the online environment, it was there, and it wasn't that bad in the radio news. And what you said about ETV+, yes, its viewing capacity has increased over and over again. Consequently, there is also a great deal of credibility. But I don't want to say either that ETV or ETV2 is doing a bad job. Everyone's pushing, all the national broadcasting, let's get the radio in here. The radio has also done operational work, nothing to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U55	Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U56	I'll try to be more specific. In the Committee on Culture there were 21 candidates in the vote, three of whom received votes of 6, 6 and 6, i.e. all three received the votes of representatives of all coalition parties. An amazing consensus! Three candidates, yet the ears of three parties appear. Now, obviously, this will also be discussed in this large Chamber very soon, and it is very likely that we will have an ERR Council, where coalition parties will also have expert representatives in addition to their own representatives. We had to pick experts this time. We're looking forward to what happens to the next CEO of the ERR or who it will be. You really don't see the problem? All coalition ambassadors were in full agreement by choosing three out of 21 candidates. There were certainly people with a very strong academic background on this list, with stronger backgrounds than those who were chosen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U57	Thank you. What do we do here like a cat around a warm porridge? It is known that you are talking about three people: Mr Hõbemägi, Mr Espak and Mr Trasberg. Your argument is that you have to be experts. It means, as you say, none of them are qualified, none of them fit in. I can't tell you what it's judged to be inappropriate. In my opinion, everyone in their field has been in leadership positions; they are specialists in their field. This has been the proposal of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu. You should tell me who doesn't fit in. I don't know, I can't say for any of them that he's not fit or that he's not a specialist in this field. You can't do that! I think it is important to say who bothers you or whose qualifications or professionalism you doubt. I don't think that's the way to judge. I feel completely convinced that these three people are working to ensure that the national broadcasting is doing well. You also asked who was the new chairman of the board. It's gonna be a choice. Honestly, I haven't discussed with any of them who is the new chairman of the board, I haven't even talked to any of them before we make that choice. It's still a Council decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U58	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U59	Thank you. It is probably no coincidence that already several times a coalition decides on places that might at least appear, but also, of course, be impartial experts, appoint one person who feels sympathy in the soul for the Centre Party, one person who feels sympathy for the EKRE, etc. This has happened before. For example, in the case of the nomination committee, such doubts were raised very strongly in the public domain. But I do not complain to anyone that he has applied on the list of one or the other party or that he has sympathy for one or the other party. What concerns me is that three days ago, your government minister called the Estonian National Broadcasting contaminated water. And the other minister of your government, namely Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, described the current process of appointing members of the Council as a sanity blackmail to the ERR, which is very much needed. This is probably where the intentions that your coalition partner and probably the entire government tend to have come out. The minister of your government also said, and to that I now ask you for your assessment of the ERR: 'Employment, balance, violation of demand to represent certain values that are clearly enshrined in the law. I believe that even the most basic press good practices and standards are being violated. " And he went on to say, "Despite all the flossing and howlings, the real purpose and task is to get the ERR to work properly according to the will of the legislator. ' And by legislator, he probably meant the government rather than Parliament, because Parliament does not have a common position on this matter, as we know. How do you appreciate this speech?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U60	Thank you. I'm starting to appreciate your line from the beginning. I understand, you're saying that Trasberg, who is not a party, is somehow, I don't know, a representative of the Central Party. You're also saying that Espak is another party, I don't know, in the sphere of influence or what you said. As far as I know, Peter Espak was a member of the Free Party, but he's stepped out of it, of course. You didn't say that, are you saying that Priit Hõbemägi, who is a renowned journalist and media lecturer, is in the sphere of influence of the Fatherland, or do I not know what you call it? Then finish your sentences. I believe that neither Hõbemägi, Trasberg nor Espak represent the positions of any political party. I really think so. Hand to heart. Trasberg is a finance specialist, and I think it is needed in the national broadcasting sector, and I really think it is necessary. I don't understand what your accusation is. Maybe the accusation is that things went like this for 17 years, and I don't know exactly. When the Reform Party was in power, perhaps these things were decided in the back room of the Reform Party. I really don't know how those things went. Maybe you're talking about your experience. The Commission's proposal is these three people. I haven't talked to any of them, but I think they're doing their job in the national broadcasting. Now, when you ask for my assessment of the various ministerial statements concerning national broadcasting, I gave my assessment of national broadcasting when I answered the previous questioner. I told Katri Raig that I believe that national broadcasting has been very professional and well-functioning in this crisis, very operational. They have given, and this is the most important of all, the input that affects coronavir. And I am particularly pleased that they have been referring not only to the native-language population but also to the Russian-speaking population. And look at how much sign language translation has been in national broadcasting in the last two months for various transfers, and there is also a huge progress. I remember Mr Jaanson has drawn attention to this matter several times. [[They say something through the hall.]] So I think an extremely good job has been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U61	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U62	Next question, number 7, author Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and answers the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Culture, I would first like to make it clear that I have two questions that are very linked. There are nearly 4,000 licensed trainers in Estonia, 2/3 of whom are employed on the basis of a contract of employment, 1/3 on the basis of a contract of command. Based on this information, more than 1 000 coaches taking care of our young and old health do not receive any help through the unemployment fund measure. Trainers working on a contract of employment will be assisted, if necessary, by both the unemployment fund and the support measures set up by the Ministry of Culture. Does the Ministry of Culture intend to support coaches working under a contract of command? And many sports clubs are also concerned, waiting for the government to decide whether it will be possible to organise children's and sports camps this year. The future of sports clubs depends on it. If camps are not allowed in the summer, many clubs will lay off their coaches and declare bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable questioner! In fact, there are a number of different measures in the Sport Support Package and they reach clubs, at least to some extent, directly through sub-unions. The Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. And the resources they'll have left of it, they can also use to hire coaches. Indeed, so far, the coach support system has also been aimed at improving the qualifications of coaches. The national support system is built specifically on support for youth trainers. Therefore, clubs are wanted to make employment contracts with them, as young people are dealt with for several years in a row. In the same way, it is important that coaches be given a vacation and enjoy all other social guarantees. Now that we are talking about the aid package in the current circumstances where coaches need help, the easiest thing to do was to channel this money according to the same principles that were already in place in the system that was already in operation. As a result, the support made available through the Ministry of Culture will indeed go to people working on a contract of employment. In the case of the unemployment fund measures, we have always talked along and wanted them to extend to debt-law contracts in the fields of culture and sport, but the unemployment fund made its decision on the basis of its system that it would go to those who signed the contract of employment. So, indeed, the time for employees under debt-law contracts is not easy at this time. However, I can say that if the club's so-called state coaching grant application leaves money to the club, the money has been received from the unemployment fund and also from the coach support measure organised by the Ministry of Culture, then this money can also be used to pay to coaches who do not have employment contracts but who have worked under the debt contract. Finally, camps can take place. The Minister of Education and Research already addressed the issue of children's camps and youth camps opening in the summer. Under what conditions, we will probably specify this during this week in the government, but it is certain that, if the epidemiological situation permits, the current plan will allow such camps to take place in the summer, including sports camps.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U65	Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U66	Thank you. I would point out that particular attention needs to be paid to indoor sports clubs. I know that outdoor training is already taking place, they have clear rules on how to behave. But yes, it's now, how to say, a matter of time. The future of these coaches and their clubs is at stake. What are they gonna do? As a sportsman, we usually suffer from a cross of teeth when you can see the finish line. How long are we going to suffer? Are we going to survive until then? I really hope that this week we will be able to make decisions. I know that a lot of sports clubs are in trouble. You know, it's not like in the winter months, training, students going to practice. But also summer months' rents need to be paid, there are big debts. I very much hope that you will make a firm decision on what is going to happen. We wish you luck that this decision will come quickly!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U67	Thank you, good questioner! I can calm your heart: this decision has fallen. In indoors, sports clubs can start their activities on Monday, the 18th of next week. These include regular indoor clubs, as well as swimming pools as sports rooms. So it's a pretty big freedom that's gonna apply again from next week. It's been possible to work out in the field before. I hope the training groups are still in place, the coaches are healthy, and the action goes on. Of course, there are certain conditions for disinfection and other health security measures are important. I also agree that athletes have goals. There are people who do sport only for health purposes, but there are also those who are stimulated by a certain level of adrenaline, where sports are conducted in such a way that there are trainings and competitions. That is why we also want to give the opportunity to organise competitions as soon as possible. In the open air, there will be such an opportunity for groups of up to 100 people, including athletes, coaches, judges, support staff, as early as the 18th of the following week. Decisions on internal competitions are still being considered according to the advice of the doctors, but yes, we want to have trainings and competitions together. Then the athletes will have incentives.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U68	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U69	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I am extending my colleague's question to culture. Five days ago, applications for support from the crisis package in the fields of culture and sport began to be accepted. The first question is, do you already have any idea of the level of demand for such subsidies? And if it does, please specify the possibility of major events in July-August.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U70	Thank you, dear questioner. I am not now forecasting precise figures, but there are enough requests in all the support measures, hardly any money left over. The pressure is likely to be great in the music field, by concert organisers and concert collectives. But there we have opened up opportunities to also support support services in the sound mode and so on. The field of music has been hit very hard because it has been based in many ways on private relations. Theatres, museums and certain national music collectives have received the money provided for in their budgets and will also receive compensation calculated on the basis of income foregone. Those who have simply been active in the music market have nothing to rely on when the cash register has fallen away. So it's definitely going to be a big pressure, so it's hard to say. We are now dealing with the reception of applications, and I would not be predicting it. Certainly all theatres and museums are seeking support, be they public foundations or private institutions. Everyone is certainly asking, they have taken this money into account, and they are now making budgetary changes to submit applications. I'd talk about public events in general. It is a question of taste: who is already calling an event with 200 people, such as some concerts, who consider the limit to be several thousand people. There are large-scale mass events where the average audience is thousands and tens of thousands. The really big event is 100,000 people. Of course, this rate varies from country to country. In Estonia, it can be said that major events could be festivals if they were to happen normally, large public sports events, if they were to happen normally, large fairs. I'm sure their organizers will have to reprofil, change their plans, but they can happen. That means culture will open up in the summer. From the beginning of July to the end of August, cultural and sporting events and public events with up to 1000 audiences can take place outdoors, with up to 500 participants indoors. In September, let's hope everything goes along the good old path.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U71	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U72	The next question, number eight, is asked by Heljo Pikhof. Reply to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U73	Thank you. Prime Minister! Unemployment benefit is granted to 33% of all unemployed persons and to 26% of all unemployed persons. However, no unemployment benefit or unemployment benefit is received by one in four unemployed persons as a whole. One reason, of course, is that they had not worked long enough before becoming unemployed, but the other is certainly because the contract of employment has been terminated either by agreement between the parties or at their own request. If we look at these figures, in 2018, contracts of employment were terminated of their own accord of 70200 and 77000 employment relationships agreed by the parties. And from here on out, from my previous practice as a lawyer and as a union leader, I know very well that it has mostly not been the free will of the people, so I mean leaving the job with the agreement of the parties or at my own request. But not always. If I now recall 2008 when the Social Democrats were also in the government, then those who, of their own volition or with the agreement of the parties, were given the opportunity to receive unemployment insurance benefits, but unfortunately this measure was terminated because of the recession. I think it would be very important if people who leave, for example, after working for ten years and more, with the agreement of the parties or at their own request, were to receive unemployment insurance benefits from the unemployment fund in order to look for new jobs and go to training and not fall into poverty. What's your plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U74	Thank you very much for this important question. The Minister of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs have already done a very thorough job in this area. As of the end of April, I am thinking of the reform of unemployment benefits, possible improvements and changes are foreseen. There are broadly four proposals. I would like to stress once again that, of course, this requires a final agreement at the level of the government and, of course, in many cases, here in the Riigikogu. But I think the preliminary work is done. First of all, the first proposal is to allow temporary work to be done on account. I will come back later to the content of concrete proposals. The second proposal is to extend unemployment insurance cover to new forms of work and the third to grant the Government the right to change the duration of unemployment benefit depending on the economic cycle. There is also a proposal to increase unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit rates. It is also important to mention that these proposals have been discussed and are also based on an analysis of the principles of unemployment insurance at the Centre for Political Studies in Praxis, the unemployment benefits data published in January 2020 and the feedback received. The debate in the Unemployment Insurance Board was, as far as I know, in mid-April. If we look at these proposals more specifically, we will first take the idea of allowing temporary work to be unemployed while on account. Under the current law, unemployment and unemployment benefit will be stopped if the unemployed are working even for a few hours of work, as some say nicely about them. But, yeah, really, there's a plan to allow you to work temporarily while you're on account. Now the question is how long. There have been reports of up to five days in a calendar month. Mr Ligi has just asked here about the agricultural sector. To some extent, this change could alleviate this situation, but I would emphasise that only to some extent. Of course, this is not a complete solution. In one calendar month it would be permissible to earn up to 40% of the previous year's minimum salary during the period of unemployment. This amount will be EUR 216 in 2020. These proposals have been developed in the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U75	Heljo Pikhof, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U76	You didn't answer my question in any way. I know that there was also a suggestion on the table that, with the agreement of the parties and at their own request, the leavers would be compensated, but today, for some reason, this issue has been removed from the table. You spoke about other measures, which we have all read about through the press, but, with the agreement of the parties and at their own request, unemployment benefit for the leavers, when they have worked long enough, that was the thing I asked about. But on the way forward: the effects of the crisis are being felt for a long time, and the crisis in terms of the social sector is still ahead. Unemployment is growing with delay and poverty is also increasing. And thirdly, differences in the labour market are becoming even greater. As you have already said, unemployment has increased by 20,000 compared to the same period last year. The level of unemployment benefit is a concern, which is 35% of the previous minimum wage and is below the poverty threshold. I know that it has also been on the table when trade unions, employers and the government have discussed the subject. But I don't see anyone wanting to raise unemployment benefit below 200 euros a month. And there are also concerns about those groups that are most affected by the economic downturn, especially those who have reached the labour market last and whose competitiveness on the labour market is the least. These risk groups are primarily pension beneficiaries, disabled people, young people and non-Estonians. That's my question. Please answer my previous question, which concerns the leavers at their own request and in agreement with the parties. And what measures have been taken, or are there to be taken, to prevent the risk groups from being hit? They are the hardest to get back into the labour market afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U77	Thank you. First of all, you're right, of course there are certain groups on the labour market who get hit hardest. If you look at the statistics, the biggest decrease in the number of employment relationships has taken place in the manufacturing industry, in the order of 4700, as well as in accommodation and catering: 3800. Now, let's go, all your measures. You say that, with the agreement of the parties or with their own will, the thresholds should be raised and the grant paid. I think that all these issues can be discussed during this reform. It is clear that when we are talking about measures that may eventually be approved by all parties, in very many cases, you know this, it is linked to the state budget. This concerns the possibilities of the state budget and it also directly affects how the state budget is handled both in the government and in the Riigikogu. With regard to these issues that you have raised, these are all alternative options. All of this will certainly help to secure the labour market and support people when they are unemployed. I think that these proposals really need to be considered. Now, you said I didn't answer your first question. However, I say that these are very fundamental proposals made by the Ministry of Social Affairs. If I may, I will once again mention the important issue that we want to extend unemployment insurance to new forms of employment. Under current law, unemployment insurance covers workers, officials and people providing services under the VõS contract and some of the smaller target groups, but we know that unemployment insurance does not cover much of this even during the crisis, for example, self-employed people, members of the management and control body of legal persons and, for example, old-age pensioners. And here, too, the Ministry of Social Affairs has a proposal to extend the circle to cover unemployment insurance. But once again, if we do this to the self-employed or, for example, to the members of the board, which has been discussed a lot, of course they are all linked to budgetary implications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U78	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The first part of my question is perhaps a reference to your answer in the sense that I mentioned that there are too few unemployed, that 50,000 are too few. It's not enough! But my point was that although we have come over 20,000 unemployed, the hordes outside the agricultural door have not grown. It was a reference to the fact that we may have 75,000 unemployed, but it may not save agriculture. That was the point of saying it. But I want to clarify one important question. Firstly, when the Committee on Rural Affairs proposed that the possibility of working in agriculture for foreign workers already present here could be extended until the end of the season, both the coalition and the government announced that July 31st would be very okay. That's all I need. It was referred to as the end of the season earlier. But the second important question arose now, hearing your answer about the chess. Let me get this straight. You haven't made up your mind about chess yet? One critical question that you are discussing is that there is a very high likelihood of spreading the potential infection across Estonia, as children from different regions of Estonia come together in the chess. In fact, I would like to know whether this small opportunity, which would certainly not save the entire sector, will be revealed in the coming days and whether the government is rather critical of this, based on the potential risk of infection and its spread across different regions of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U80	Thank you. I will stick to my position: I think the student chess is welcome this summer. We devoted quite a lot to this subject yesterday in our special committee. In my opinion, we should think in such a way that, when the teaching in schools ends on 9 June, the Friday day of this week should be the 12th of June, in fact, the Chessies could take off. At the beginning of June, anyway. I think that's right. But if you ask if a decision has been made on this, there is no decision yet, just a feeling is what I have just told you. I have no sense that a member of the government thinks that students should be banned this summer. If you are talking about the spread of the risk of infection, if anyone else touched it when talking about schoolchildren, then yes, it is true that specialists in their field, professors say that it does not spread among young people. But that doesn't mean they can't be carriers of this virus. And any youth work automatically brings together more adult people, who are their teachers, tutors, etc. But we certainly can't say we don't open students. The feeling is the opposite today: I think that this summer the student chess could also work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U81	Thank you, I will finish addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U82	Next question, Number 9: Presents Signe Kivi and answers the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In the Riigikogu this week, the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and the Ordering of Arts Act is under procedure. The latter aims to raise the threshold for the procurement of works, from which the contracting authority is obliged to order a work of art. Today, this obligation must be respected if the value of the works exceeds EUR 450000 plus VAT. The cost of the art to be procured is therefore EUR 4500, which, according to the explanatory memorandum, has led to a situation where competitions are more expensive than art itself. ERKAS, who has organised the most competitions, already states in its 2018 press release that their administrative burden in compliance with the law is unreasonable. I quote: 'Any major repairs at improved construction prices should not be accompanied by an obligation to order art. ' My question: why did the Ministry of Culture not coordinate this proposal with representatives of the arts? And in today's new economic situation, where artists very much need orders for their creation, is this change not premature?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U84	Thank you, good questioner! The birth and biography of this law, as you mentioned, is very closely linked to the Public Procurement Act. As a result, they are still being dealt with together. The relevant limits, as well as the assessment of the price level from which an object should be required to purchase 1% of its cost of art, depend very much on the logic of public procurement. At what level and at what time it has been coordinated with the circles of artists, I owe this answer. When I went to the Ministry of Culture, I knew that this topic was up since 2017, when the Public Procurement Act was amended to lower the threshold from which the "object" must be dealt with in public procurement, from 250000 to 150000. That was a surprise for the Ministry of Culture. In this respect, the cost rate of the object from which the art had to be ordered fell from 750000 to 450000. If you take 1% of the 450000, it will be EUR 4500, and indeed some art work, as you said, could cost more money than an artist could get for it in this way. Of course, in the current situation, we could support artists, but I hope that we can do so with other measures in the current situation. So, yes, it is a long-sleep problem, and now we have come back to the proposal. In fact, I think it is reasonable myself that, in addition to any minor repairs, compulsory ordering art may not be the right solution, but I also advocate that everyone can buy more art already. But I'd raise another subject that I think has gotten in the way of time. After all, this ceiling was once decided. I mean, art is needed and no matter how much an item costs, for example 100 million, still has to be ordered for EUR 65000. This threshold could be higher, because marble, bronze and other materials that could make something big for a monumental building are expensive. There could be a higher threshold and perhaps this change should also be initiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U85	Signe Stone, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U86	Thank you very much. You actually responded to one of my possible supplementary questions. The law really works since 2011 and has shown that it is justified in every way. The Estonian public space has been enriched with very important works of art. But in addition to this increase in the ceiling, which is a very good idea, do you think it is possible to change the law in the future, in addition to the draft we are debating, in other ways? Some of the problems have come to light precisely from the feedback from the artistic community, and is the Ministry willing to discuss these proposals? That's the first question. And the other is such a human question. Does the Minister, apart from this stage curtain of ERM, one of the favourites, have other examples of successful art objects in this competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U87	Yeah, I'm looking at that list right now. That's a good question! The sculpture "Windbone" in Hiiumaa Upper Secondary School. It's a beautiful name, and it's good that something has come to Hiiumaa. In fact, there are quite a few examples. In my opinion, Noora has been tastefully designed, both architecturally and the art that was ordered for Noora's archive building. But I'm definitely gonna hurt somebody here. The winning work of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre is good: these stained glasses that are there, the whole interior is very nice. So art is in many places. Of course, it can be said that there is another side: art is a matter of taste, a matter of appreciation. Maybe someone with some design element just seems to be an incomprehensible cube or a bunch. But let it be for artists to choose. In this sense, this law has worked very well that these committees are professional, these juries are professional. I trust these juries. I think that Estonian art and Estonian public space have won a great deal of these competitions and this idea at all. So I would like to thank everyone who initiated this idea and made it a law in 2011. It's really gone well. What changes could be made? In this sense, it is difficult to say that in some ways it is a perfect idea. 1% of art, when we start thinking, expand to 2% of art, 3% to 3%, that's a little second level talk. The fact that 1% of the cost of an object could go when there has been a public competition for art is such a perfect idea that there is nothing to add. Technical nuances may be considered. Perhaps if you ever play with a public procurement limit again and that changes the cost of ordering art, and it starts to happen to somebody again, so that it is very cumbersome to conduct a competition, maybe you don't always have to pay the jury or you don't always have to give the prizes. Let's say the organisational issues can be clarified, but in general I think this has been a very good idea and thank you to those who implement it!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U88	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U89	Now, if a good questioner and a good answerer don't take all their time, we'll be able to take one more question. Asks Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U90	Thank you, good manager. Since there are seven minutes left to the end of Question Time, I believe that the Prime Minister and I will certainly be able to address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U91	We've got to do the gala too!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U92	The restrictions imposed in times of emergency are now being relaxed, but it is understood that the crisis is far from over. It is very possible that before the vaccines arrive, we will have to face at least one new virus wave. We are now in the middle of May and the economic impact of the crisis is just gaining momentum. Some sectors have thought that they would be exposed to the effects of the crisis, this whole crisis only with a delay and only in the autumn. Recovery from all this economic stagnation will fail in a few months. The payment of wage support to those who have been absent from forced employment during an emergency situation is a measure that has helped to prevent a very rapid and massive rise in unemployment. The three major employers' associations have also stressed that this is the most important and most operational support measures. The salary allowance is currently due to expire on 31 May, which, of course, gives rise to some uncertainty. It is understandable, and I very much agree that if there is no desire to produce a greater cataclysm, the wage subsidy must be extended. I will now put together two questions so that you can answer both of them. Firstly, I have not understood what the government's position is on continuing to pay the wage subsidy. Secondly, since this is a very expensive measure, in the first two months, more than EUR 200 million has been taken from the unemployment fund's reserves, how is it planned to compensate the unemployment fund for this wage subsidy measure in order to enable it to continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U93	Thank you. I will try to answer these two questions within a few minutes. First of all, you have a very important press release, including my congratulations to you, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus: I understand that you have joined the NATO Innovation Council. I wish you strength and success in this necessary work. But in the government, we have been discussing whether or not to continue this measure. As you know, this is also a proposal from the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. The Unemployment Insurance Board, as far as I know, should meet today, I think, at the same time as we have Question Time here. Yes, the wage subsidy measure was created exceptionally quickly, it has indeed proved to be very necessary and effective, but, as you say, it is a very expensive measure. It's true. Current calculations show that 114 million have been spent in one and a half months, of which, for example, only 27 million were paid out in March. So there is reason to believe that the 250 million that have been set aside is unlikely to be spared, rather than even a deficit. Do you want to continue or not? I think we should continue. In the near future, that decision will have to be made. The proposal of the Unemployment Insurance Board should be awaited. I think that the conditions of this measure need to be slightly changed, either by changing the level of compensation or by relying on the percentage of the second drop in turnover. But certain changes need to be made. In principle, however, I support the continuation of this measure in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U94	Thank you. I thank all the questioners! I thank the ministers for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U95	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Attention! We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday on the 14th working week. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? No, I don't. We can do a presence check now. Please! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U96	Let's go to today's agenda! The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces, the Law on Security Authorities and the Law on the Amendment of the Law on the Chancellor of Justice, which was initiated by the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? On behalf of the Group of the Johannes Kert Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Since, at second reading of the draft, doubts remained that the Defence Forces would monitor us all and even on Christmas Eve, I thought it was my duty to explain only this matter briefly. I use here the position of the National Defence Committee, which was given to the Supreme Court. In order to protect the security area, the Defence Forces have the right to check personal data from databases for the purpose of identifying and controlling an important threat, and to do so in a disguised manner where necessary. A discreet surveillance of a person for the protection of a security area is only allowed in restricted and extreme cases. I would point out that the relevant structural unit of the Defence Forces already has the right to collect personal data from the databases of the state, local authorities or other legal entities governed by public law and also by private law, as a result of the law. This right extends not only to members of the Defence Forces, but also to decide on the suitability of officials, staff and admission to the security area, for example, for background checks on persons providing services to the Defence Forces. Pursuant to § 541 (2) of the Bill, discreet surveillance of a person is permitted in the Defence Forces only if two conditions are present at the same time. First, in an urgent case, i.e. if the representatives of the Police and Border Guard Board or the Defence Police Department are not present yet, and only until they arrive and take over the operation. Point 2, to identify and control the increased threat. As a practitioner, I would argue that, for example, enough drone fighters and mushrooms appear on the field and around the task force of the Defence Forces and our NATO allies, although the season is not allowing for mushroom harvesting. The Defence Forces already have the right to detain the drone flyer in accordance with the current law, but can't keep under cover. The mushroom must not be detained or kept under cover. The amendments set out in the draft are essential in order to reduce the practical constraints on the effective and purposeful conduct of Defence Forces intelligence and on the practical implementation of the mandate for Defence Forces intelligence. As a NATO border country, the advance warning is important for Estonia as well as NATO as a whole, especially given the current security situation. As a NATO Member State, Estonia has made corresponding international commitments, so the Defence Forces must be given the right to seek to detect actions against the Defence Forces' security area at the earliest possible stage. The law also provides the Defence Forces with better opportunities to detect possible traitors by means of enhanced background checks and to stop the leak of sensitive information. Ladies and gentlemen, The Supreme Court has declared that only the provision relating to the failure of the Defence Forces to notify the measure of discreet surveillance of a person is incompatible with the Constitution, indicating that in such a case it should be made clearer to provide for more effective control, which is also carried out in the draft under discussion. For other provisions, the Supreme Court did not find any conflict with the Constitution. This draft provides for effective regulation for both the Defence Forces and the security authorities in relation to the aforementioned covert surveillance. Ladies and gentlemen, We ask you to support this bill. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U98	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The negotiations are over. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 152 SE, and we are going to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act, the Security Authorities Act and the Chancellor of Justice Act, initiated by the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U99	Today's second item is the third reading of draft law 165 on the amendment of medical devices law, emergency law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Signe Riisalo on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U100	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, For 16 days we have processed a bill called the 'Law amending the Medical Equipment Act, the Emergency Act and the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases'. We have heard the position of the members of the government, which says that we are creating legal clarity. What legal clarity, then, are we actually creating in such a tight time frame that all the usual rules for the handling of draft laws have been ignored in the Riigikogu? In fact, this bill is unambiguously about the government's unwillingness to give up the power that the emergency has given it. This means the sole authority of the government to decide on restrictions. And that is the main reason why our Riigikogu should not wish to adopt this draft in this form. The current regulation has been unequivocally adopted in 2017 according to the will of the Riigikogu. This bill was then prepared by the government of Jüri Ratas and clearly stated what expectation would be. The expectation is that, in normal and emergency situations, we will have competent authorities and local authorities who will make the necessary decisions. And then, when it is necessary to take restrictive and important decisions nation-wide over a shorter period of time, an emergency situation is taking place. Now the government has the desire to extend its competence to impose restrictions beyond the emergency situation, including outside the emergency situation, i.e. in a normal time. The crisis is not over, we all want to return to normal life and continue our daily activities, work, hobbies and family life. The restrictions are actually placed on us by a virus whose behavior is not predictable. We must therefore all consider that we have a long way to go, living within the framework of the various smaller and, if necessary, larger restrictions. But they don't change horses halfway. We have not learned our lesson from the successes or failures in managing this crisis, managing the emergency situation, returning to the emergency situation and also returning to normal life. But we do know that the Rescue Board's credibility is 96%. We know that 93% of Estonian people, police and border guards trust the Alert Centre by 87%. No government has come near with its trust, and yet we want to say that we are giving decisions to the government. What is the biggest concern of the Reform Party? This is a restriction on human rights and freedoms, entrepreneurship, the right to hold meetings. These restrictions can be made in accordance with the Constitution and must be proportionate, purposeful and, most importantly, clear, understandable, within a limited time frame. With this draft, it is completely incomprehensible how long these restrictions may last. The Reform Party has tabled an amendment that we tried to give these provisions a period of validity, and that would have been the end of this year. A similar change was made by the Social Democratic Party. It would have given us the opportunity to take into account the lessons that this crisis has taught us and to make a law that has been considered and considered to the end. Extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U101	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U102	We could have come to the draft at the end of this year, which has been thought out and well prepared. The Ministry of Social Affairs has also said it is ready. The Chancellor of Justice also gave such a recommendation to the Social Affairs Committee of Ülle Madis. Unfortunately, we are now in a situation where the changes do not lead to a clear understanding of how long the restriction of personal freedoms can last. In addition, our group proposed that the procedure be suspended at second reading. This was also due to the fact that it is not wise to adopt a draft law in this way without thinking through it. Let us think for a moment whether we want laws that have to regulate our lives in the long term in normal, emergency and emergency situations, but where the legal clarity that we want to create has not been achieved. Maybe we'll take some time off and move on by putting forward draft laws that are acceptable and understandable to everyone in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U103	Thank you. Helmen Kütt, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U104	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I say that the Social Democrats do not support this bill and will vote against it. Why? Today we have another cluster law package here at third reading, one of many that the Riigikogu has recently had to discuss and which will put the Riigikogu back into action under the emergency sign, 'take it or leave it' or, more precisely,'say it, don't think' the situation. A coat was sewn on the button, or medical device law, and as Peeter Ernits, a good co-worker at first reading, correctly said, there are porridge and cabbages on the table. The draft provides the Agency with additional powers to limit people's rights and freedoms after the emergency situation has ended. I believe that no one disputes that it is necessary to maintain certain restrictions after the end of the emergency situation, but the concern is whether the restrictions, the extent and the interaction that are visible to the draft have been clearly documented. Based on what has been discussed in this Chamber, on what has been discussed at the meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs and on the opinions of various legal experts, I would argue that there is a great deal of legal uncertainty in this draft. Even if the future law complies with the Constitution, decisions made on this basis may no longer be the case. And the reason for this is that the written provisions are largely unclear, even less legally applicable. Quoted by legal expert Paloma Krõõt Tupayd: 'Juridical accuracy and methodology are not legal vanity but guarantors of legal clarity and certainty. Only if the implementation of the rules is sufficiently clearly foreseeable can it be recognised that the limits of the powers given are exceeded and that uncertainties are not exploited by the authority. ' The Social Democrats would have been prepared to support the draft if this procedure had taken account of our amendments, such as the proposal that the rules laid down in the current draft would only apply until the end of this year. This would have obliged the government to come to the Riigikogu in the autumn at the latest with the full text of the new Law on the Prevention and Control of communicable diseases. In this case, the entire Riigikogu could have opened a debate on what additional measures the Health Board or the Government of the Republic should be able to take outside the emergency situation, i.e. to prevent the spread of an infectious disease in an emergency. The role of local authorities in emergency situations would also have been clearer. The Reform Party Group presented the same proposal. Unfortunately, the Social Affairs Committee did not even try to find a compromise, and the big hall just voted it down. Finally. More traditional restrictions on people's rights and freedoms in emergency situations require a higher level of decision-making and governance, as this also entails political responsibility for managing and resolving the situation. There is also a need to be able to explain them to society at large. Closing hundreds of businesses on the day or imposing national restrictions on movement should not be left to the authorities alone in the democratic rule of law. These decisions involve political responsibility for which both the government and the Riigikogu are responsible, who have received their mandate from the people through elections. After the emergency situation has ended, legislative changes should be put on the table, which would change the situation where the Riigikogu plays a non-existent role in resolving and exiting the emergency situation. The emergency chapter of the Emergency Act does not say a word about the Riigikogu, not to mention the participation of the Riigikogu in the decision-making process or subsequent approval of decisions or other forms of participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U105	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 165 on the draft. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! I am voting on the draft law on medical devices initiated by the Government of the Republic, on the Emergency Act and on the amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 42 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U106	We are going on: today's third item is the second reading of the Act on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Environment Committee, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 March this year and the first reading took place on 13 April. The deadline for submitting amendments was 27 April at 5.15 p.m., no proposals were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees. The Commission decided to propose one amendment. The Commission discussed the preparation of the second reading on 4 May. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and NGO Estonian Oil Association also took part in the meeting. At this meeting, the Commission decided to amend the draft and submit one amendment to it. During the meeting, the Commission also took appropriate decisions on the further processing of the draft. This one amendment brings the draft into line with the amendments to the Liquid Fuel Act, which entered into force on 1 April of this year, and implements annual accounting from the date of entry into force of the draft law instead of a half-yearly calculation of compliance with the greenhouse gas emission reduction obligation. A more precise explanation of the amendment can be found in the list of amendments. The Committee on the Environment decided to propose to the large hall that the second reading be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U108	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. An amendment to the draft has also been proposed. This amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the position of the lead committee: take full account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 159. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U109	Let's keep going. Today's fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Courts and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please waitress Urve Tiidus, member of the Legal Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! The draft law amending the Courts Act and the Prosecutor's Office Act was at second reading in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 4 May. It was almost three months between the first and second readings, and that is why I very briefly recall what this law is for. The Government of the Republic launched this draft law already in January, and this is a follow-up to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office three years ago. The European Public Prosecutor's Office (EPPO) is responsible for the pre-trial prosecution of crimes affecting the financial interests of the European Union and for prosecution before national courts. Perhaps it is also interesting to note that such crimes include fraud involving European Union subsidies, complex cross-border VAT fraud and corruption crimes affecting the European Union budget. And all such criminal proceedings begin to cause damage of at least EUR 10000. EPCO has two levels. There's one in Luxembourg, it's a central level. A European Public Prosecutor will work there from each Member State. At local level, there are at least two prosecutors from each participating country. This law regulates the role of the European Public Prosecutor and Prosecutors appointed from Estonia in the national prosecutor's office, as well as their competences and powers. Amendments could be tabled until 5 March, but none had been tabled. The opinion on the draft was sought from the stakeholders mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. The Estonian Bar Association and the Estonian Judicial Association did not submit any proposals to amend the bill. I also recall that Einar Hillep, adviser to the Department of Justice's Department of Penal Law and Procedure, attended a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs in which the draft was prepared for a second reading, who, among other things, informed the Commission that if it did not initially wish to join the Swedish European Public Prosecutor's Office. The original plan was that EPPO would be operational already in May, but as we know, the pandemic slowed down all processes, too. And now they want EPPO to start working no later than November, because by the end of this year it will have to act. The commission itself did not propose any amendments to the draft, although procedural decisions were taken. The committee proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 13 May. When the second reading is closed, the Commission will propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the meeting of 20 May for the third reading. All the decisions were unanimous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U111	Thank you, dear waitress. You don't have any questions. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 134. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U112	We are going on: today's fifth item is the second reading of 180 draft law amending the general part of the Civil Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws (expansion of electronic possibilities in organising meetings and taking decisions). I ask Marek Jürgenson, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U113	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, For the 180 SE between first and second readings, amendments were examined in the Steering Committee. A total of six proposals were submitted. One of them was submitted by a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof. In addition, the Ministry of Justice made a written request to the lead committee as the draft author, which included proposals to amend the draft. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Bar Association, the Association of Estonian Apartments Associations, the Estonian Association of Lawyers, the Estonian Association of Lawyers and the Association of Estonian NGOs also issued written opinions and suggestions on the draft. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading at its meeting on 7 May and 11 May. On 7 May, Vice-Chancellor of Legal Policy of the Ministry of Justice Kai Härmand, Head of the Private Law Service of the Legal Policy Department Vaike Murumets and Advisor to the same service Maarit Puhm, Director General of the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Mait Palts, Member of the Board of the Association of Apartment Cooperatives Urmas Mardi, Representative of the Estonian Real Estate Maintenance Association, Attorney-at-Law Annika Vait, Director-General of the Association of Estonian NGOs, Alari Rammo, Chairman of the Board of the Association of Estonian Trade Unions Peep Peterson. Kai Härmand, Deputy Chancellor of Legal Policy of the Ministry of Justice, and Vaike Murumets, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Legal Policy Department, took part in the meeting on 11 May. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided not to accept the amendment by the member of the Riigikogu, Mr Pikhof, which was supported by 4 members of the committee, 5 against, 5 abstentions, and to initiate five amendments on the basis of the address of the Ministry of Justice. Heljo Pikhof's proposal was disregarded on the grounds that the creation of technical means of properly secret voting as a national IT solution is not real in the near future. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 13 May and to propose that the second reading be terminated. If the second reading of the draft is completed, the draft shall be placed on the agenda of the plenary session for a third reading by 18 May and a final vote shall be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U114	Thank you. You have questions too. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Appreciation for the smooth running of the hearing! Honourable waitress! At the first reading of this draft, it was mentioned in the Chamber that the state does not intend to develop, in cooperation with some private companies, a platform for such meetings, including voting and with particular emphasis on secret voting. At the same time, when the draft was being discussed in the Commission in order to prepare for the second reading, the Ministry officials still considered that the State had planned it. Well, yes, it was admitted that it would not be possible to do so in a few weeks, in a few months, but in any case it is planned. So, what's it really like? Does the State intend to develop such a platform? There is no need to doubt that it will be used very actively. Does the country then intend to develop it or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U116	Thank you, good questioner! We were both there in the Commission and listened to these discussions. As I recall, Peep Peterson pointed out that there was already one possibility on Zoom's platform in itself, but in the course of the debate between us we had the understanding that maybe it was not entirely safe. Last week, after the Minister's presentation in this Chamber, this was a little discussed and it turned out that there is actually a very high probability that this platform would come. I probably can't confirm it here, even some of our Estonian IT companies are already working on it. As we know, the situation that currently prevails in the Estonian economy has also fallen in many IT companies, some with a turnover of up to 50%. I don't think nature likes an empty place, and this platform is coming. As far as this bill is concerned, as I see it, the problem makes sense to resolve it in such a way that, at other times, if a building association or association needs such a platform to hold a meeting, it is possible to obtain the necessary licence for a limited period of time, even for a few days.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U117	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U118	Thank you. When we discussed the subject in the Commission, you said there was a platform in Zoom where you could vote secretly. I checked it out, it doesn't exist. And when we talked to Peep Peterson, we also discussed that we didn't. But let's keep going. When the minister answered my questions in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, his answers were in the conditional language. He agreed with me that there should be an analogous technological solution for a secret vote, as is the case with electronic voting in elections. And he also said in this Chamber that if it wasn't possible to secure a secret vote, he should physically get together. But if it is forbidden to meet physically in the country, how do you vote secretly when there are personal elections and how many hundred people have to attend the general meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U119	Thank you, good questioner! The minister in the remote also replied that then the organiser of the meeting must guarantee these possibilities. And we have also discussed, in passing, between ourselves, a good questioner, that, in fact, this proposal has a whole point. A secret vote is quite necessary in certain situations. However, as the officials of the Ministry of Justice responded to us, there is no reason to specifically link your proposal to this draft. But I'm gonna go back a little bit. I seriously hope that this secret voting platform will soon be completed. But let's not get ahead of ourselves! Today, the situation is that we will soon be able to hold different meetings face-to-face, in one room. But for the future, yes, there is also talk of the second coming of the pandemic, and actually it should be ready by then. I think it's worth keeping your hand on the pulse. Communicate with the Ministry on this subject and ask for an overview of the state of the different platforms, either Zoom or perhaps an Estonian IT company can propose something by then. In any case, if it comes quickly, it's very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U120	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U121	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, First of all, as far as the secret vote is concerned, it seems to me that at least it is not worth the fetishing right now. These opportunities are real. Really, it is also possible to find a way for the preparer to hold a secret vote today. These funds are freely available, and also free of charge. But here's the question. I remember when the Minister was making a presentation here, I asked him whether it was planned to extend or postpone the deadline for the submission of the annual reports in relation to the emergency situation. The Minister made it quite clear that there was no such plan. Now I look at this explanatory memorandum that there has been such an amendment that, at least, the deadline for the submission of annual reports by companies has been postponed to 31 October. This doesn't concern, I understand, other, non-profit organizations, such as housing associations. That is the first question: why is it not? And the second question immediately: why October 31st? The emergency was two months, and logic says two months could have been delayed. Why such a date, not a little sooner or even the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U122	This is due to the fact that in many cases the deadline is set at 31 August and consequently the deadline is postponed by two months. You yourself mentioned two months. If we look at these proposals, many of the proposals relate precisely to the extension of the deadlines for annual reports. And when these proposals were received, the Ministry of Justice has considered it right to approach this way in different cases. This was also briefly discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U123	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In fact, I have more or less the same question as the previous speaker. At first reading, the Minister was asked whether it would be necessary to extend the deadline for the annual report. I think it makes sense to decide to extend it. The minister then said that they had not seen this need. In case the draft law procedure should get stuck, it must be brought back to it and provision should be made for the possibilities that apply when people cannot come together. Do you have an overview of what happened in the meantime? And now the question of the previous speaker, which was left unanswered: does it still extend to all associations or only companies? It would seem strange if it was narrowly circumscribed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U125	Thank you. I can patch these amendments through. That is why the deadline for amendments has been set for amendments. As I read earlier, the parties who tabled the amendments were quite numerous, and the Ministry of Justice took them into account. But I am now going to propose Amendment 2: reporting for housing associations no later than 31 October. Amendment 3: Presentation of an economic report in 2020 according to the Foundations Act, in the same way on 31 October. And the last, sixth amendment: private limited liability companies, public limited liability companies, partnerships and trusts, with the same deadline of 31 October. This is what I quickly took out of this protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U126	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U127	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Did you have a debate on this in the Commission, or do you really think that this extension could include non-profit organisations, especially senior non-profit organisations? However, after the emergency situation has ended, they are still a risk group and the meeting of these general meetings is difficult. A very large part of them are non-profit organisations created by active older people.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U128	Thank you. In the committee, we did not discuss this before the second reading, as I recall. Here's what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U129	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U130	Thank you very much. I'm still going to ask you more specifically. Before, there was a reference that, in the case of housing associations, it was proposed to extend this deadline. But I did not get a clear answer, which was why it was not taken into account in housing associations. Is there any particular reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U131	Thank you. I read that Amendment 2 specifically concerns housing associations. Amendment 2 is intended to amend § 722 "Proposing an annual report in 2020': a building management company which is obliged to submit the annual report to the registrar for the period from 12.03.2020 to 31.08.2020 must submit the report no later than 31 October of this year. I hope you have the answer to your question now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U132	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U133	Thank you. You discussed the amendments and could you perhaps confirm that all forms of legal persons are actually covered here? At least there's an answer to Helmen Hunter's question. § 1115 of the NGO Act states that non-profit organisations must submit a report by 31 October at the latest. I understand all the legal entities are in here. If you did not discuss it, it is, of course, funny in the committee not discussing the amendment that you yourself proposed. But perhaps, for the sake of the verbatim report, you can confirm that all companies and other private legal entities to whom the deadline for the submission of the annual report is set can submit it by 31 October at the latest?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U134	Thank you. There was such an amendment, as you yourself confirmed, but the Commission's protocol does not specifically include the issue of non-profit organisations. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice did not consider this important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U135	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'll help you out a little bit. In fact, in the legal committee, for example, the Association of Housing Cooperatives requested an extension for the submission of the annual report until 31 December 2020. And to be honest and precise, I note that the representatives of the Ministry of Justice were in fact still of the opinion that these dates should remain as they are, and this new date, 31 October, is actually a compromise. But my second question. Please confirm that this has been repeatedly emphasised that conducting an electronic meeting is an additional opportunity. Does the fact that the company, or now the management body of the NGO, decides to hold an electronic meeting mean that, in fact, the members of the association have the right to require a physical meeting at the same time, that there will be both a physical and an electronic meeting in parallel, and not just an electronic one?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U137	Thank you, good questioner! In fact, in this Chamber, the Minister also assured us that it would be possible to conduct these meetings in two ways, both electronically and physically. Last week in this hall, he repeatedly confirmed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U138	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did you also come up with the so-called "flying" vote at these general meetings? In NGOs, sports organisations are quite common to grant certain powers to one person. In such cases, where the meeting has been conducted electronically, how will the accuracy of any powers be verified?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U140	Thank you. Voting with a mandate has been well-written in this draft, including the conditions under which everything must be formulated. So voting with fanciers is good use of words! .1 is covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U141	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U142	Thank you. Good Commission waitress! I don't know if I misunderstood the question of Toomas Kivimägi, but he kind of asked if a member has the right to ask for a physical presence if there are really 'bodies' in the bill, but, let's say that there is only a full electronic meeting. But if a member says I want to come physically and asks where I can physically come? Does a member have the right to demand this if the management body has decided otherwise?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U143	Thank you, good questioner! The minister last week in this Chamber confirmed this repeatedly, in my opinion, as I have responded to the questioners, that 'all participants must be given the opportunity to participate, either electronically or physically, as a result of how someone wishes to attend a particular meeting. It's still up to this two-way option.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U144	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm asking my last question to go on with this. In general, it is logical that when a meeting is announced, members will be informed early and the agenda will be approved, so that there can be an adequate mandate for voting. Did you also discuss the possibility of trying to change the agenda without the delegates being able to contribute? Was it at all under discussion, and if so, was it a problem or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U146	Thank you. All these points of risk were already discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs at first reading, and I do remember that all these questions were answered. The Commission largely relied on the greatest risks, how to mitigate them, how all parties are protected, so that there are no problems, and how it can be challenged after some cases, if some meetings have not gone exactly as all parties think. So, in fact, all these risk issues were discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U147	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U148	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The need to draw up this draft was particularly clear during the emergency situation announced by the Government of the Republic on 12 March 2020, but the solutions proposed are intended to be used even after the emergency situation has ended. The highest decision-making bodies of legal persons, the general meeting of shareholders and members, make the most important decisions that shape the activities of legal persons. The draft extends the possibilities for all legal entities not only to vote electronically, but also to participate in the meeting by means of real-time broadcasts, to take decisions, to vote during meetings, to put forward proposals and disagrees without the usual physical presence. From now on, it is assumed that the meeting can be attended both electronically and when it arrives, and if the association wishes to rule it out, it must set it out separately in its articles of association. The draft provides that the members of the legal person can take decisions in part and in full by electronic means. In the first case, some members of the body are present at the so-called ordinary meeting and some are there by electronic means. In the second case, all participants will be present in different places and all communication will take place by electronic means. It is important that the draft extends the obligation to submit the annual report until 31 October inclusive. The term of office of a member of the Executive Board shall be deemed to be extended until the same date if the term of office of a member of the Executive Board expires between 12 March and 31 August inclusive. Any change that eliminates unjustified differences between types of legal persons in the regulation of meeting and decision-making, in the extension of electronic means, must be accepted. At the same time, although we are taking a strong step forward in digital society according to the draft, some questions remain. Neither the officials nor the Minister of Justice were able to answer the question in the Committee on Legal Affairs or in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu about how secrecy is guaranteed in electronic voting, for example in personal elections. The platforms currently used are not sufficiently adapted or secure for this purpose. It must also be possible to check the results of the vote at a later stage. Although the provisions of the draft have been set to apply even after the end of the emergency situation, today we actually want to resolve this vacuum quickly, which prevents us from holding physical meetings when people are not allowed to gather together. Consequently, there must be a reliable platform for secret voting or it must be done in the near future. I also tabled an amendment to that effect. I cannot imagine, for example, the Congress of the Confederation of Trade Unions, where hundreds of members participate by electronic means and have to choose the governing bodies in a secret vote. I asked the Minister of Justice, Raivo Aeg, in this very hall, what happens when secret votes are needed, but people's larger kind of gatherings are banned for a long time. The Minister agreed with me that there should be an analogous technological solution for a secret vote, such as electronic voting in elections. By bringing the party's general assembly or congress, for example, with hundreds or thousands of people together, the Minister thought that the form of holding an electronic meeting would be complicated. However, in the case of a large quorum, it would be possible to vote secretly if there were only a credible voting system. Let us note here what the Minister has used as a coercive way of speaking. We don't have a platform like this today. My amendment... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U149	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U150	My amendment provides for the state to take care of it. The Justice Minister was in charge. The organiser of the electronic meeting, he said, has a duty to ensure that the system set up for this purpose ensures secrecy. If this requirement cannot be met, people must be invited to participate physically. However, if gatherings are forbidden, the legislator cannot say that if secrecy is not guaranteed, then all of you must gather physically. It turns out, however, that the Minister will be able to do so if he does not have the appropriate answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U151	Thank you. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is undoubtedly a very welcome and necessary draft. The question is whether it took a corona crisis to reach it. But if you look for positive factors that are almost not there in this crisis, at least this is one example: the crisis made us move in the direction of creating an opportunity to participate in meetings electronically, instead of going all the way across Estonia to Tallinn together to attend one meeting or another. I think it will certainly be significantly more sustainable in financial terms, too. However, there are two nuances that I still want to emphasise. I did not ask the waitress in vain whether the decision taken by the management body of the association that the meeting would be held electronically clearly meant that in such a case, there would be no physical meeting anywhere at the same time. In my opinion, the possibility that a physical meeting will take place somewhere at the same time should certainly be there. Otherwise, these same technical solutions and technical problems will actually arise. We can see them ourselves. We have about ten different meetings in the Reform Party Group one week alone. And what's to deny, with this month-and-a-half, we've acquired these skills considerably better. In fact, however, there is no reason to assume that everyone feels well at home with these electronic solutions and that there are technical opportunities. There is no reason to assume that. And if the board decides to hold a meeting only electronically and physically cannot meet at the same time, it is actually quite a big problem for quite a lot of people. I think, perhaps in three or four years' time, we could say that once the Steering Board has decided that the meeting will be held electronically, it will only be held electronically. At this time, however, there should still be the possibility of meeting physically at the same time if some people do not have the necessary technical solutions or if others do not want to attend the meeting electronically for any other reason. And another issue that I would also like to mention in this regard. This way of thinking is a little socialist, but I, too, personally believe that this is a place where it would make sense for the country to spend a little bit and indeed develop such a platform. I do not mean in the slightest that the country could complete this platform from the top to the bottom. Rather, it would announce some kind of procurement involving our own IT companies or large platforms, for which a large part of the assumptions have actually been created. This solution needs to be one and coherent and understandable. However, there would be no obligation to use this platform, and it could use all kinds of different platforms. The previous speaker drew attention first and foremost to the issue of the secret vote. Clearly, such security is essential for people to trust electronic platforms. This would not be a place where the country necessarily needs to save, rather than making certain costs in order to create a single platform where secret voting would also be ensured. But once again, I do not mean that the state must do this alone and with its own money. The basic solution should still be proposed by existing IT companies. And I assure you, they're already available today. At the end of the day, it's actually a question of money. Now that it is time for the market to enter, these platforms can be used free of charge during a certain period, but in time it will probably have to be paid for, and then it could be a problem for someone. I don't think it's much of a platform for the country to set up and allow our associations to use it for free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U153	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiations. Six amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, is the position of the commission: to be disregarded. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U154	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U155	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the first amendment tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof, the position of the commission: disregard. Please take a stand and vote. 25 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Second amendment, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, position of the commission: take full account. Third amendment, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. The fourth amendment, as well as the position proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, of the lead committee: take full account. Fifth amendment, position by the Committee on Legal Affairs, leading committee: take full account. The sixth amendment, as well as the position proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, of the lead committee: take full account. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 180. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U156	Let's go! Today's 6th item is the first reading of the draft law 179 on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications initiated by the Government of the Republic and the amendment of the construction code. I would like to ask the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U157	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft amending the Foreign Professional Qualifications Act and, in this context, the Building Code. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was, of course, involved in the development of changes to the construction code. With this draft, we want to bring both these laws into line with Directive No 36 of the European Parliament and of the Council since 2005. In fact, according to the European Commission, Estonia has not fulfilled all its obligations under this directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. However, before I introduce the proposed amendments, allow me to give a brief overview of this European Union legislation. The principles of the Professional Qualifications Directive are applied when a person has acquired an education or professional experience in another EU Member State and wishes to enter Estonia for a regulated profession. A profession shall be deemed to be regulated if the state has established qualification requirements for its employment, whether formal education, further training or work experience. For example, a doctor, a teacher and a lawyer are regulated professions in Estonia. The recognition of professional qualifications must ensure the free movement of workers in the European Union and the functioning of the internal market. The general principle is that if a person is a recognised specialist in his or her own country and has the right to pursue a particular profession, another Member State must also recognise his or her professional qualifications and allow him or her access to the labour market. If there is too much difference between a person's qualifications and what is required in Estonia, he or she may be required to fulfil certain conditions before being admitted to the labour market. The final decision on recruitment after recognition shall be taken by the employer. It should be said that the European Commission has complained against this directive not only to Estonia but to all the Member States. The European Commission has launched a total of 28 infringement proceedings, including against the Republic of Estonia. Coming now specifically to the current draft, it can be said that all the shortcomings that Estonia needs to correct in its laws are of a technical nature. Firstly, we will specify the responsibilities of the body assessing professional qualifications. The competent authority for assessment shall relate to the area in which the profession is regulated. For example, the Health Board is the competent authority for the recognition of professional qualifications of health professionals, the Ministry of Education and Research for the recognition of professional qualifications of teachers. The evaluating institution compares the applicant's foreign professional qualifications with the professional qualifications required for a regulated position or profession in Estonia and decides whether or not to recognise the applicant's professional qualifications abroad. The draft specifies that the institution is obliged to contact the relevant authority of a foreign country in order to obtain information on the applicant's training if the applicant is unable to provide the necessary information on his/her training. If, until now, a general obligation to communicate with an institution in another country was defined by law, then it now adds a statement that it is precisely in order to obtain information about people's training that must be communicated. The draft also specifies that the applicant shall be required to submit documentation demonstrating his or her compliance with the qualification requirements within two months if these documents are requested from the applicant's foreign assessment body. Our law currently does not have a deadline, as Estonian institutions are obliged to respond to requests for clarification and letters of formal notice within 30 days, which is half the deadline. However, the European Commission wishes and, when it comes to receiving it, we will mark two months as the deadline for the submission of these documents. Secondly, let us clarify the definition of the applicant. The current wording of the law has given rise to interpretation problems. For example, it can be interpreted as requiring an applicant to register his or her right of residence in Estonia when recognising a professional qualification. In fact, the right of residence requirement applies only to a family member of a citizen of the European Union who is not a national of a Member State. Thirdly, we will specify the principles of automatic recognition of the architect. The reference to one article of the Qualifications Directive has been erroneously omitted from our construction code. Now let's add this five. This article states that architects whose education is not in accordance with the requirements of the Directive but who have the necessary professional experience or completed further training allowing them to pursue this profession are also entitled to automatic recognition. The right to work shall be confirmed by the Member State from which the person comes. In short, the draft, which I have presented, removes some of the technical shortcomings that the European Commission has brought to our attention. By amending the legislation, we will clarify the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U158	Thank you. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U159	Good manager! Good waitress! As I understand it, for some reason the architects are stuck between the gears, and now it has to be technicalized. But why did architects stay there, but, for example, midwives, veterinarians and nurses, who are all read out in this directive, were not harassed by Estonia when transposing the directive?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U160	First of all, these "infringement proceedings" include these three areas, the regulated professions, the doctor, the teacher and the lawyer. By doctor, I mean a health care worker, as the good questioner said. In the case of the architect, it was a question of the construction code. There was no reference to the directive in the construction code; in general, the architect is in no way caught by the gears. The question was that if you do not have the qualifications you need, it is especially important that you have completed further training or previous work experience. Then you have the right to work. And such references were now made in the building code. As far as the infringement proceedings against Estonia are concerned, according to our specialists, the shortcomings are of a technical nature rather than just to say. For example, considering the deadline for issuing a document, whether two months or one month, our current 30 days are shorter. At the very least, if you look at these requirements, the Ministry of Education and Research is best aware that this infringement procedure was not entirely appropriate. This was also the opinion of the specialist who answered these questions in the Committee on Culture. But yes, architects are not in any way separate between gears, it was a question of previous work experience and reference to the provisions of the Directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U161	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U162	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Let me get this straight. The construction code was a piece of work to get the word "architect" into it at all? And does this change make any difference now? You said in your previous reply that it was not directly relevant to individual architects. Is what is being changed a general principle?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U163	I wasn't there when this detail was discussed with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who certainly knows more about the construction code. My best knowledge is that it was a matter of a purely missing reference to the directive, without any substantive changes. But I'm sure a good questioner will know more about whether there would be any further changes. No further changes were made in relation to this Directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U164	Thank you, Minister. You don't have any questions. I now ask Jaak White, member of the Committee on Culture, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U165	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable technical staff. I am therefore honoured to be the rapporteur for this draft by the Committee on Culture. The contents of the draft act have already been presented by the Minister. It is a transposition of the directive or rather technical improvements in the transposition of the draft. At the meeting of the Riigikogu Committee on Culture on 4 May, all the members of the committee were present; I am not going to read them by name. First of all, the representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, adviser to the Department of Higher Education Tiia Raudma, explained that the European Commission worked through the legislation of all the Member States and also found technical and minor failures in Estonia, which are now being eliminated. This draft also clarifies the definition of the applicant in the Foreign Professional Qualifications Act. In the current version, the phrase 'family member who is present' is replaced by 'family member who is present'. Raudma added that Estonia has always followed good practice of recognition and has been much more tolerant to analysing and recognising qualifications in other countries than any other Member State. Member of the Commission Signe Kivi then asked for examples of less tolerant countries, and Tiia Raudma politely replied that small countries like Estonia have the biggest problems, especially with countries in southern Europe, which are generally over-regulated, are very protective of their labour markets and do not want to let others in, mostly with a lot of explaining work and people need to be patient about their business. I noted that in the 1930s our communist doctor, Johannes Vares-Barbarus, wanted to go to France as a doctor, but since he was not allowed in France, he became an even bigger communist in Estonia. I asked if the communist doctor could go to work in France now, so as not to become an even bigger communist. There is no such question or answer in the protocol, but there is no greater problem either because neither this question nor the answer have any creative meaning for the epoch. However, my second question in the minutes is: why do Estonian medical staff go mainly to Finland, but nowhere else. True, I admit that this issue, too, does not have the slightest creative meaning of an epoch. But the protocol states that Tiia Raudma has replied that Finland is familiar with the Estonian system and then trust. He added that many people have used the opportunity to work both in Finland and Estonia before the emergency situation, precisely because they do not need to leave their home permanently, they can live in one place and work in two places. Signe Kivi asked how many agencies have been approved by directives, which are subject to mutual recognition. Tiia Raudma replied that all regulated professions and professions fall within the scope of the Directive. On my own initiative, I looked up how many of these regulated invitations were. I got 89. Tiia Raudma added that the content and duration of the training have also been agreed between the doctor, dentist, nurse responsible for general care, midwife, pharmacist, veterinarian and architect for seven specialties. Aadu Black asked whether it would be possible for a Member State to add restrictions for specially skilled professions. Tiia Raudma replied that the State should not create obstacles to competition and that problems would arise only if the State had imposed some kind of restriction on access to the Agency. But if the state has not done so, then it is always the employer who decides. Finally, Aadu Black proposed that Jaak White be appointed rapporteur by the Commission, that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 13 May and that the first reading be closed. That's how the consensus was decided. So that's it. And one relevant point that struck me at the moment in making this review is why the Riigikogu has to deal with these detailed technical draft directives at all three readings. Like there's nothing more we can do. The percentage of adopted laws resulting from European law was 39% for the previous Riigikogu. I am not saying that the previous Riigikogu just spent 39% of its time on such details, but it was probably worth a fewty percent. Is this procedure justified? I still give this good old example that, for example, the sectoral development plans that determine the objectives and framework of the policy to be carried out in the field for the next 15 years do not require the approval of the Riigikogu at all. However, whether or not a simplified procedure would be useful in dealing with laws transposing European Union directives, we did not, of course, discuss at the Commission meeting, and I also have no mandate and, frankly, at the moment, no competence to further develop this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U166	Thank you. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U167	Good manager! Good waitress! Thank you for an interesting presentation, which perhaps does not reflect the discussions of the real Commission. But what if you look a little higher on the fact that one directive had to place architects in the building code because of some unfortunate technical rule? You said there were 89 of these specialties in total. How is this a general picture in other parts of Europe? There are problems with recognition in southern Europe, but how may these unfortunate architects be alone in all these 89 specialties between the cogs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U168	My honest answer, honourable colleague, is that I do not know. But I can assume it's a coincidence. The technical details of the transposition of the directive in the case of Estonia simply played, which is what happened by accident.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U169	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 179. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 27 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U170	Today's 7th item is the first reading of the Bill 184 of Amendment of the Government of the Republic Act and other Acts (Connecting Environmental Board and Environmental Inspectorate) initiated by the Government of the Republic. I beg the Minister of the Environment Rene Koka to waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U171	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Government of the Republic and other laws 184 to the Riigikogu. Its aim is to merge the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate into a government agency called the Environmental Board. All current tasks, rights and obligations of the Environmental Inspectorate will be transferred to the new Environmental Board. A similar draft has been submitted to Parliament for the third time, with little change in the draft itself. We have further analysed the establishment of a joint agency in the field of environment in accordance with the organisation of the 1.08.2019 Cabinet of Government and found it useful. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal is based on an analysis carried out by some 50 employees of the Environmental Board, the Environmental Inspectorate, the Ministry of the Environment and several other bodies. The working groups reviewed the services of the institutions in order to find places for savings and improvement. In addition, there have been public exchanges of information with clients and interest groups and their representatives at the Environmental Board's client advisory board. We also collected assessments from experts who analyzed issues of independence of supervision, the law firm, Chancellor of Justice, otherwise the feasibility of joining (the Police and Border Guard Board) and the risks of corruption (the security specialist Erkki Koort). All these analyses and assessments are also available to you. I specifically want to emphasise and assure you that environmental monitoring will not remain an orphan in the new institution, and therefore the identity of the Environmental Inspector will not be lost as a result of the merger. This should also be confirmed by the fact that the emblem of the environmental inspector retains the image of the water rose. The merger brings together the best practices from both institutions. The draft is part of the reform of the state, within which the Riigikogu is already in the process of merging educational institutions and merging the Food and Veterinary Office and the Agricultural Office. The most important expected impacts of merging institutions are described in the following keywords: clarity, prevention, presence, coherence, competence, effectiveness. The one-off direct costs of the amendments are approximately EUR 450000, of which EUR 200000 will be covered by the Ministry of Finance and the rest will be covered by the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. The expected savings from the merger will amount to EUR 200000 per year, which will be directed towards the development of missing capacities and to cover the costs of harmonisation. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I ask you, if possible, to decide and decide before the summer vacation begins. This would provide clarity and certainty for more than 500 employees in the two institutions. This would also allow the team to focus already in the summer months on agreeing on the organisation of the new agency and to ensure a smooth start of the Environmental Board from 1 January 2021. The legal seat of the Environmental Board will be Pärnu and the current regional presence will be maintained in all counties, as it is now. Finally, I would like to point out that this change is important to all of us, regardless of the outlook. For this reason, before coming to the Grand Hall, I also visited all the political groups in the Riigikogu to present the amendment and these principles and discuss them together. I would like to thank everyone for a substantive and constructive debate. The integration of the Environmental Agency and the Environmental Inspectorate is an important step in strengthening the environment and I therefore ask for your support for the proposed changes. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U172	Thank you, Minister. A member of the Riigikogu does not go on holiday. A member of the Riigikogu is an ever-movement, works all year round, and if necessary, we meet for an emergency session. But there are also a number of questions for you. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You concluded your report by saying that this change is very important for the environment, and you also mentioned the reasons why this change is good, what it will do for the better. But there are two sides to everything. Could you please explain the dangers and potential problems of putting together these two institutions? If they exist, what are the solutions or plans to minimise risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U174	Thank you. The main concern, which is not due to the plan to merge these two institutions, is that we are lagging behind in terms of wages. And this is also one of the problems that has emerged from the analysis. Certainly, every effort must be made to ensure that the salaries of our officials, especially those dealing with them, become competitive. Compared to other agencies, the Environmental Board has about 23.6% of wages and the Environmental Inspectorate has about 11%. This is a painful place of concern that needs to be resolved. And the analysis also pointed out that there are certain dangers of unification. They need to be minimized. But external pressure on the various officials in their decision-making may increase. These are concerns or problems that require very good and clear regulation. As I mentioned earlier, we have a lot of specialists involved: law firms, Chancellor of Justice, Erkki Koort as a security expert. I believe that we can also resolve these concerns, but the issue of pay is one that needs to be dealt with at all times. Wages must be equal to those of other similar bodies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U175	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U176	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! How do you justify the change to those people who have seen the risk that the issuer and the authorisation reviewer will be subject to a single supervisor, will work in a single house in a transferred sense? This is certainly one of the legal risks that we should definitely reject today. And what was the reason why your own party changed its mind? In previous times, as far as I know, when the same draft was pending, the EKRE Group opposed this plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U177	Thank you. The answer to the first question is this. The legal analysis of the various lawyers is very strong and the Chancellor of Justice has also assessed the draft. It has been found that the analogous management model we are planning is already in place at the Police and Border Guard Board for issuing various permits and there are a number of other institutions where the country has actually been using it for years. So there is no sign of this problem. And what I want to stress is: nor is the Environmental Inspectorate currently checking the validity of the permit issued by the Environmental Board. It shall not check whether the authorisation has been properly issued by the Agency but whether the holder of the authorisation complies with the prescribed rules. So the concern that there will be a legal contradiction as a result of the authorisation being issued and assessed in a single body is not there. It has also been clearly disproved in these materials. As for why we are here, why the EKRE began to support the idea, I have also said in the past that, after the last time this idea failed in the Riigikogu, I took this plan off the table and put it in a drawer for about three months. I have said this before, that, by looking at this process before, I was rather in the camp of people who thought it was a bad idea to unite. I have said this before, and I dare to admit it today. Why did I change my mind? I saw what was going on last year's cases of cubs, lynxy and other things. And when I saw how different agencies work together, I saw that there were actually a lot of duplications and other developments, I thought it would make sense to solve them through the merger process. I must admit that, although I was a skeptic, I have grown so much in this analysis and in the collection of material that I do not have to lie to myself today that I support this idea. I quite sincerely believe that this is a reasonable idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U178	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U179	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. A good colleague has already asked in principle whether there is a contradiction here. What is your position: is it good to have regulation in place, to give permission and to check it myself? Sounds like a violation of the principle of separation of powers. That's the first question. And second: why or where did this come from the decision that the joint institution will be in Pärnu. Why can't he be in Räpina?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U180	Thank you. As regards possible inconsistencies in the granting and control of authorisations, there is no contradiction. This is confirmed by the studies that have been carried out. In that case, we should also review whether it is lawful or not for the police and border guard authorities to grant existing arms licences and to monitor their use in one institution. As I said, various studies have been carried out up to the Chancellor of Justice. This has been analysed and confirmed by providing examples from different institutions. As far as this address is concerned, both the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board are regional authorities all over Estonia. Why the legal address of Pärnu? Purely because the Environmental Inspectorate's office is there now. This is a purely pragmatic decision, there are no other reasons. In Tallinn Environmental Board, if I remember correctly, there are 20+ people in the order of work, both institutions operating regionally across Estonia anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U181	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U182	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It has to be said that the materials of this draft law are very, very interesting reading, I mean materials other than the explanatory memorandum and the law itself. I will highlight, for example, the most important dates and years in Estonian nature conservation and environmental protection. That's great! The analyses are also very thorough. And these analyses show that the combined office will generate savings of EUR 200000, and the redundancies associated with the process will amount to EUR 300000. Not very large amounts of money, but I ask what are the long-term savings opportunities for the Commonwealth.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U183	This reform has not been launched with the idea that it will have to provide huge savings in money. The point of this connection is that we want to improve cooperation in the field of the environment, all in relation to the issue of permits and the work of two agencies at all. We don't know exactly what it's going to be, but the goal wasn't that we know exactly that we're going to lay off so many people and so much and so much we want to save with it. This savings, this EUR 200000, which is now estimated to have been made, have been brought to the table today as an adequate amount of money that it could be. As I mentioned earlier, these instruments are designed to fill the gaps we have, including raising wages, but also others. There's a lot of positive here. There's different offices, we're spread out. Two offices are located in one settlement, for example, 11 places in Estonia, and there are 24 places in separate houses where the office and inspection operate. There will be synergies and savings. I have met many people from both institutions all over Estonia, and I dare say that the spirit is that it is reasonable to do so, and it gives a good result.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U184	Thank you. Good minister! My question also relates to these costs. You said in your report, and now in your answers, that the savings are EUR 200000 per year, while the direct costs of pooling are EUR 450,000, if I understand correctly. Could you expand a little bit? You already started doing this in your previous reply, but what exactly is the cost savings coming from? One is, like you said, surface savings, but what else? And this EUR 450000 connection costs, too, maybe you can explain a little bit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U185	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U186	Thank you. So what's the point of austerity? As you mentioned, and as I said before, one is from office spaces, from rooms. The second thing is certainly a fleet of vehicles, the harmonisation of which will lead to savings. This includes different vessels. Well, in the big picture, these are the savings points. What else? What we originally went into is that we didn't want to make a new one. It was based on the desire not to make a new legal body with a new registration code. So there's no need to start making new documents. But as far as the costs are concerned, the EUR 450000, the whole process of setting up a joint office requires so much. Even so, this approximation of the uniforms, everything else that goes with it. That's gonna cost you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U187	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I was talking about the money, but I'm asking about people now. As a former Head of Government, I say that from time to time the Environmental Inspectorate would have expected more support in various procedures where his tooth did not start. The simplest example is waste vehicles, which are such a wider problem. How do you see things going? Now, if there are two institutions being put together, probably at the level of managers, some jobs may be left over, but how should manning be done at the level of inspectors and officials? Can this resource, which is released, be used to employ more people in the field? Are we planning on getting more? What have these analyses shown, or what is your plan? Will this service get better and if there are any shortcomings, lack of people or not? Is this organization going to grow, or is it going to be as big as two of them are now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U189	Thank you. We do not intend to increase the number of people. The basic, bearing idea is still to achieve better efficiency, to better mobilise resources. One thing is, for example, that the Environmental Inspectorate has 1313 information telephones, where 24/7 people are basically available. At the same time, there are places where the Environmental Board really needs to have them. That's one plus that comes from there. But yes, we have no intention of increasing the number of people. It is possible that, as the duties change, some people may suddenly be laid off. But perhaps you have heard that we have initiated a process to review whether it would be reasonable to create an assistant inspector's statute in the same way as we have help police officers and voluntary rescuers. I rather see this in order to provide a legal and legal basis for people who go to fish protection, for example, who have worked very hard for 5 to 6 years. At the moment, it is, in fact, unregulated. Perhaps more people who want to contribute to environmental protection could be involved through the creation of a statute for an environmental assistant inspector, thereby helping environmental inspectors. Rather, there should be additional strength and support for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U190	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U191	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good minister! Our talk to those who follow us online may seem to be getting a little too technical. Comes back to the values of nature, by the way, is the value that most people in Estonia call an important value to them. Is it still a substantive objective to bring together this agency and the inspection, so that nature can be better preserved? Could you devote a few minutes to explaining how the effectiveness of this work will increase in terms of substance, in terms of environmental protection?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U192	Thank you. One plus that comes from this unification is that, for myself, I have put so much meaning into it that the Environmental Inspectorate may be bringing in more knowledge, which, in fact, really takes place across the country. And the agency, perhaps not perhaps, but certainly, harmonises with the inspection the knowledge and understanding of how permit procedures are carried out and why one or the other permit is often issued in one way or another. In the course of this analysis, we have learned that many things are complicated with different permits. And if the authorities themselves are struggling to interpret one permit or another, what else does the poor permit holder have to do? That's definitely the one thing that gets better. But, as I said before, when you put together the resources used by the two institutions, they officially go out, plus the exchange of information and the use of other resources, the work will definitely get better. I believe that this will certainly increase support for the environment as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U193	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U194	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, For each institution his visual identity is very important, and years ago, when I was the Head of Communication of the Government, a single visual identity was created for the government institutions. I looked on the Internet to see that the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate had different visual identities in use. Now, if these institutions are merged, will this Common Authority use the identity of the single government agencies, that is three lions, a dash and the name of the institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U195	Yeah, identity's getting the same. However, the symbols of the water rose used in the inspection shall be taken over and retained by the inspectors. It has been important for the Environmental Inspectorate in particular to preserve this identity symbol. It will be taken over, and it will also be introduced in the new Commonwealth. At this point, I do recognise both the Head of the Environmental Inspectorate and the Head of the Agency. They've done a hell of a job! All the explaining work, the two houses, the involvement of the people in the two institutions has been impressive. Last time, I think, it missed a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U196	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U197	Thank you. I have a little more general question. A little more than a year ago, the idea that the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate would be united became a red card that did not pass through this big hall. If you would now try to sum up briefly what has changed over the year, so that the large hall should change its position. A year ago, we said this unification wasn't gonna work. Now you want to send the mandate again. What, apart from the fact that the minister has changed, is different now? Why should the Riigikogu change its mind and vote differently than a year ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U198	Thank you. Yes, the minister has changed, and at that time I think the new Head of the Environmental Board had recently taken office, and now the Environmental Inspectorate has a new head. Why was the red card given last time? I can tell you why I think it happened. One reason was that not enough people were involved in the process of these two institutions. The employees were, in my opinion, in my personal opinion, perhaps a little little involved, and the problem arose that perhaps very much began to talk to the members of the Riigikogu directly about their concerns. People were intel. I think that was one of the main reasons. And the second thing was that even then there was a very strong question as to whether it was still ensured that the granting of permits and the control of permits were kept separate, its legitimacy. These analyses have now been carried out in the meantime and all confirm that there is no conflict of interest or contradiction. And maybe the fact that the elections were coming didn't play a less role.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U199	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U200	Thank you. Good minister! I myself have been involved in the merger of two organisations, one of them was successful, the other was not successful. I think it is very important whether the cultures of the two organisations match, and my question is based on this. How do you assess: do the organisational cultures of the Environmental Board and Environmental Inspectorate match in such a way that this merger, if authorised by the Riigikogu, is successful? That's in the sense that the new organization is going to work well?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U201	Thank you, a perfectly relevant question. As I said, both the inspectorate and the head of the agency have worked very hard to involve the people of these two organisations and to keep them in the information field so that they can understand what the benefits of unification are and what the bottlenecks are, how they are going to proceed. True, there are people today who say frankly and very good that they say that you are not convincing me, I do not like this idea. That makes perfect sense! Among those 500+ people, there are certainly those who say that the idea does not fly. Originally, when the Government of the Republic gave the task of carrying out an analysis of the formation of a joint office, the Environmental Agency was included as a third party. I did, however, take the Environment Agency out of this plan right now. It seemed to me that the merger of the three institutions would have been very difficult, and I did not believe that it would work. That's why we went on with the inspection and the agency. At the moment, I do think that their organisational cultures are very similar and that everything will work out well. I have visited many different regions across Estonia. I have been in contact with local leaders, both in the inspection and in the profession, and I can say that they are completely positive. There has been no feedback that it is bad, that it is feared that something will go wrong. Rather, it has been said that the use of resources will improve and for the customer it will be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U202	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U203	Good manager! Good waitress! Under the leadership of the previous minister, a good colleague, Kiisler, they tried to force it twice, but both times there was a forehead collision and a red card was given. Now, in the third attempt, the draft is very sympathetic, especially its long and comprehensive annexes. Is this an important change of style: if any draft comes, it will be accompanied by in-depth analyses, which will be convincing and useful for many drafts? Or is there hope, at least in the case of the Ministry of the Environment, that the drafts will be accompanied by such an in-depth analysis that will facilitate our work here? Is the time for this kind of equestrian attack over?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U204	Thank you. I hope so. But first of all, thank you for the credit! I have no experience in the past, but when it's gotten better, I hope it's a new norm that it's going to be. What can I say to complement that? Two things that fell on my desk the first day at the Ministry were the Waste Act and the same Commonwealth issue. The topic of connection I immediately put away in the desk drawer for two or three months, and in the case of the waste law, it was also clear that there was no point in me coming to this hall, even though there were plans that we should come back and try to do it again, because the directives require adoption. But I wasn't ready to go to the government with drafts that I hadn't fully understood. But I dare say that the thing that I have stood for very much is inclusion, the involvement of all kinds of different parties. This is so in the case of the Waste Act, on which the Ministry has received comments, that more involvement and more analysis is needed, we have done them and we are doing them more than in the case of the U.S.A. So, yes, we have engaged and really made an effort to ensure that the homework of the officials of the Ministry of the Environment is done as well as possible so that this should not be done for us by Riigikogu committees and all members at all. In that sense, we have made an effort.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U205	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U206	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. You said that the number of people will not be increased when organisations join. Here's my question. If these positions, which are in two organisations, are put together, how many posts are left to avoid double work? In other words, how many people do I mean? How is it polite to put it out of business?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U207	Thank you. My honest answer is that, in discussions with both the inspectorate and the head of the agency, we have not seen any plan or certain knowledge that we would like to hide from you, so that so many people go away. No, it's not! I'm sure it'll come to light in the course of the work. I dare say that there may be some jobs that really overlap when it comes to combining it, and people may be offered another job. If this job doesn't work, maybe some people have to leave. But in general, we do not see that in the first two years there is a great need to reduce places. We'd rather not see it, we're still working on quite the edge. The possible creation of this same position of environmental assistant inspector is one of the aid measures to combat environmental crime more effectively. In fact, we can see clearly that not only in Estonia and throughout Europe, but also in other parts of the world, environmental crime is not in decline but rather in an upward trend. And in order not to attract and increase staff, the establishment of an assistant inspector institution is one of the possible solutions that could help to involve people in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U208	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U209	Thank you. In the field of the environment, very different interests collide and collide. Let's take the same thing as the most important: A and O nature itself, the environment itself, and the people who defend it, and the people who want to benefit from it. My question is who, by virtue of this law, are the biggest winners. And a small supplementary question: does the Baltic Sea and its environment win anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U210	Thank you. The winners are, in my opinion, all parties, both ordinary people and businesses, who use the services of the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board. At the moment, they need to communicate with different agencies in certain circumstances, often in different locations, and now it will certainly converge. As I said before, one of the things we have seen in the analysis is that the understanding of permits and their uniform interpretation in both the Environmental Inspectorate and the Agency need to be assisted. If officials themselves sometimes find it hard to understand them, what do they want from the people we promised? But the Baltic Sea environment will certainly be monitored just as well in the future. This activity goes on, there are a lot of operations in which the marine environment is monitored all the time. This does not directly concern this unification; it is a daily activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U211	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U212	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I would like to congratulate you very much for coming to introduce this bill even to a small opposition party That's very nice. This is the only time in a year for the Minister himself to come to our group on his own free will. To ask you something, I ask you this: was it just your ignorance as a beginner? Didn't you know this was an unusual move? And you intend to do the same in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U213	Thank you. I thought it was a perfectly reasonable and necessary move. I didn't want to come here, and I don't want to come back and test whether it's going or not. After all, it was reasonable to go through groups and understand what were the concerns, the negative places, and what was good. And I'm serious, we had a lot of use for dating. After going to every group, we analyzed some things, we got more information that is open spaces. As I said before: I no longer want major disputes on any subject to remain on committees, so that people and interest groups go to hordes of committees and complain that the Ministry does not contact them and do not bring them with them. That was the goal. And once again, thank you to everyone we met for the good feedback. In the future? I'm not saying we're definitely doing this with every bill. But if there are such things that I think it is necessary to get the sense and negotiation of other parties and groups, then I am certainly always ready to come. And if anyone wants to ask me something directly, you can always come to me. I am ready to come to the political groups as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U214	Thank you. Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U215	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You have already responded to our colleague that the number of employees will be more or less the same. But in one analysis it is written that the permit procedure gets shorter times and much more will be on the ground in nature and prevent violations, I don't know, in three months, when there were 14 months or something before. What is the basis for this effectiveness? Maybe people want to know. Is this the base you mentioned here that the assistant inspectors are coming, or is today's staff working half as fast?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U216	Thank you. This particular acceleration of processes is in no way related to the topic of aid inspectors. The effect is that if today we still have two institutions that run, say, their own thing in the landscape, then the Commonwealth will review what roles it is possible to put together. If there is already an Environmental Board person in some area, there shouldn't be anyone else going there to deal with a case. And that same Environmental Inspectorate phone 1313 is running 24/7 and can use its capabilities if some kind of damage has occurred somewhere. In this way, the information can be gathered more quickly, and an official in a particular region can react immediately. I believe it works in real life, not just on paper, but better and faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U217	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U218	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Years ago, the biggest problem with the inspection was their poor supply of different techniques and they were not actually doing too well with their tasks. When their technical equipment was improved, the inspection became clearly more capable. I was a little worried about what you said, that if you look at austerity points, perhaps one way is to pull together watercraft and other technical equipment. I don't have a question. I have such a strong suggestion for you. Make sure you don't go too far with that kind of savings, and you don't take down the inspection capability at all!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U219	Thank you. I'll take that under advisement. Rather, I was thinking of making better use of the resources of these two institutions in common. As I pointed out just before, there are often situations in which a representative of another body goes to a region where the Environmental Inspectorate or the agency is already a person. This is, in fact, an unnecessary cost for the taxpayer. It would make sense to do it in one move, for example, to make a 10-mile hook on the way back, and also to review the other scene. Yes, but we take note of this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U220	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U221	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I, too, acknowledge that we had the opportunity to meet both the Head of the Office and the Inspectorate in the Group and also to discuss this with the Minister. There it remained positive that the authorities themselves have been able to think much more closely than the previous times about what this would entail. But the problem remained, among other things, that we understand that in reality, there is a need for more resources for this joint institution to work properly. As you yourself have said in your answers, this direct austerity is very difficult to find. On the contrary, there is, in fact, a need to find substantial additional money to harmonise wage levels in order to do substantial work. And, as you said, the risk of corruption in the environmental field is increasing, which means that wages must be raised by all, not only by those officials who have had low wages. What amount do you request from the state budget to finance this reform? What are your agreements at the Ministry of Finance or government level? When and how much additional funds are foreseen?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U222	Thank you for your question. The numbers are the only ones I can get out of right now, the numbers I've already said. The direct costs of connecting are EUR 450000, which has now been calculated. Of this, 200,000 will be covered by the Ministry of Finance and the rest will come from the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. It is still a conservative calculation of EUR 200000 potential savings. I hope the savings will be a little bigger. As I mentioned earlier, all these office spaces, and so on. But it is true, and I can safely say that I have kept it in the picture all along, that the issue of pay is a problem primarily in two ministries. They're both the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment. We have to move on here. The previous Minister for the Environment has already taken very strong steps and helped the field of the Ministry of the Environment much further in this respect. Thanks to Siimu for this! Last year, as the only ministry, I managed to get a 0.9% raise in our area of administration, and this money went not to the Ministry, but to the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board for mostly wage increases. Whether we add these two institutions or not, we have a wage problem anyway. So all I can confirm is that I'm going to the RES negotiations again to ask for more money. And I've also marked it in the government that if one day we get to the point that we have to start cutting wages, the Ministry of the Environment should definitely not do it over the same table. Then we should first try to harmonise the work families that we study every year and then start looking at them. I believe that the administration of ministries and the same working families should receive the same remuneration. That is what I have stood for so far and will continue to stand for.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U223	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! In one of your answers, you said that you are also trying to achieve savings by making sure that officials do not sneak around, but that some things can be done logically. It is as if such polyfunctional officials are expected to emerge. Whether or not there will be an aspect of this issue. And the second aspect is that, when we talk about the work of the inspectorate and the discovery of environmentally hostile activities, let's say this, was it also said during this merger debate that these inspectors or other employees would need certain competences to be able to work more effectively? I also mean that there may be certain procedures that cannot be done without the involvement of the police. Was it discussed to give them certain competences that would enable the state to better protect the environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U225	Thank you. Last year, quite early on, when I took office, I had meetings with the heads of all the agencies. And one of the first meetings was with the head of the Environmental Inspectorate. We mapped out at my request, which are the places that need to be helped, in particular, in order to remove the bottlenecks you mentioned. To this day, we have managed to move forward so much that about a month ago, I received a desk with the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice, the Director General of the Police Department and the State Prosecutor. During this meeting, we signed a declaration in which all ministries confirm that environmental crime is a very important priority area with which more will be done. In addition, the Ministry of Justice and I have work to do to get the so-called crime directory on environmental crime surveillance activities. Now we've come to this point that there are two things that we can put in there and that the Justice Department is working with us. International environmental crime will be included to give more ground and freedoms to work against it, in cooperation with the PBGB. Secondly, there is a need for a stronger response to environmental permit activities on this issue in order to curb this type of crime. Such activities are in progress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U226	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U227	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. There is probably still a lot of work to be done in order to succeed in this merger between the inspection and the agency. But I'm narcissistically asking, do you have any other thoughts of restructuring: to combine, subtract, multiply and divide something?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U228	Currently, it is possible to establish an Earth and Regional Office. This task force is still working. But as far as this Commonwealth is concerned, when we can complete this process and the Commonwealth will start working nicely in 2021, maybe we'll look again and see if it's reasonable to transfer some of the services from the Environment Agency. I just didn't want to deal with it now because I didn't want to complicate the process too much. But it's possible we're moving on with this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U229	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U230	I will ask you once more: could you, however, tell me how much your request is from next year's state budget in relation to the compound institution? How much money do you claim for operating costs, investments and salary expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U231	Thank you. I don't have the money right now. I will certainly send you this information in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U232	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U233	Good manager! Good waitress! I found these very interesting turbo solutions in this analysis. For example, if a moose is torn into a forest or a goose field, it now takes two to three days for inspectors to arrive. But as a result of the change, it takes 3 to 5 hours. Or another thing: if there's a rare beast, it's going to be a permanent residence, so far, in private lands, maybe 10 years of private ownership has been sacked, and now suddenly one to two years, if we give it approval. Where does this crazy turbo power suddenly come from? Now, if we put institution A and institution B together and say no more separate cars, where does this crazy progress come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U234	Thank you. In this respect, I must trust the leaders of the Environmental Inspectorate and the agency and their teams who have done this work. They have assessed and analysed everything and confirmed that when the two agencies are merged, it is possible to make better use of the funds and to make all the work more effective on the basis of work-specificity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U235	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U236	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! My second question is motivated by your answer to my first question. In itself, it's nice that these institutions were sitting at the table again, they've always been there from time to time. I really hope that the more they go together, the more useful it will be. I'm just asking a question like this. The PRIA has had some of the same problems with the content of the work concerning the misuse of certain grants. Was there any mention of the risks? Why is there no intention of giving certain surveillance or related activities to inspectors? Was there any discussion at that meeting about what the main risks are?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U237	This analysis is going on now, but in general, with the interpretations of all parties, we have come to the point that there is now a complete legal possibility of doing these operations even now, without giving the supervisory authority the rights when I understood you correctly. There's no need for that. However, we are looking for ways to move forward. There may also have been a bottleneck that, as a representative of the PBA, the Environmental Inspectorate has not always met one person who would always be a specific partner. There could always be one partner for different crimes. Currently, in different criminal procedures, this partner in the PBA is changing. It would be better if someone knew more about it, that they were the same people, that they knew the background and all that know-how. Environmental crime is a very specific crime and requires specialist knowledge to contain it. But we are working on it, and I hope that we will get to the point of finding a more effective solution, in cooperation with the PBA, to make this work better, better than before.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U238	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Environment Committee, as a rapporteur for the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U239	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed this draft last week on Tuesday, 5 May. In addition to the members of the committee, the Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk, Olav Avarsalu, Director General of the Environmental Inspectorate, Riho Kuppart, Project Manager of the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate, Karl Laas, were also present at the discussion. The minister gave us an overview of the unification plan and did it as well as he did a moment ago in front of this great hall. The Director General of the Environmental Board, Riho Kuppart, made a more thorough presentation on the establishment of the Joint Environmental Authority, which is also presented here as the first annex to the draft. The Director-General of the Environment Inspectorate, Olav Avarsalu, confirmed that the merger of institutions will improve the possibilities for supervisory influence on the behaviour of individuals, as one structural barrier will be removed. Karl Laas said that compared to earlier attempts to unify these agencies, this time the work has been done in depth and the working groups have worked on the principle of equality to prepare for the unification. Since the draft merger has also been presented by the Minister in the political groups, the members of the Commission did not have many additional questions and it was proposed that the Chamber, which was consensually large, should finish its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U240	Any questions for the co-rapporteur? There are no questions. Thank you. It is now possible for the representatives of the political groups to give a speech. There is no wish to participate in the negotiations. I shall consider the negotiations to be concluded and also the first reading to be concluded. The deadline for tabling amendments is 27 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U241	Next item, No 8, First reading of the draft law amending the Holidays and Holidays Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Estonian Flag Act, number 172. I'd like the Social Minister, Tanel Kiige, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U242	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Let me present the draft law amending the Holidays and Holidays Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Estonian Flag Act 172. The same subject has actually been discussed in Parliament for several months. This draft proposal was actually tabled by the Alliance for Child Protection with various partners at the end of last year, and in the meantime this debate was clearly delayed due to the spread of the corona virus. The Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group have submitted a partial similar proposal, and I expect this proposal to have quite broad support from the government and also from the opposition. We're talking about turning Child Welfare Day into a national anniversary and a flag day. This is a signicant step towards paying attention to children's rights, while also valuing professionals working with children. The decision to mark Child Welfare Day as a national anniversary...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U243	Wait a minute! Gentlemen of the Environment Activists, could you continue your conversation outside the hall? I don't notice! Mr. Savisaar and others, be my guest and continue outside the hall! Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U244	Thank you. Yes, turning Child Welfare Day into a national anniversary and flag day is a signicant step to draw attention to children's rights, to value professionals working with children. The decision to celebrate this day as a national anniversary, and the banner of the state also bears the message that children in society are valued in the same way as mothers and fathers who have both days scheduled today, and so do grandparents who have a national anniversary, but this is not yet the flag day. Grandparents' Day is already celebrated as a national anniversary in Estonia, as has been said, but not yet as a flag day. Along with children, I think it is important to remember grandparents as well, so it is appropriate to make Grandparents' Day an official flag day similar to Child Welfare Day. Thus, children, mothers, fathers, and grandparents are all treated equally. The goal of Grandparents' Day is to thank grandparents and pay tribute to them for raising children and grandchildren, sharing care and love. A due date helps children to become more aware of the strength, knowledge, and wisdom that grandparents can offer. It will undoubtedly increase communication and mutual understanding between generations. More specifically, this specific Holidays and Holidays Act and the Estonian Flag Act will be amended by amending the Holidays and Holidays Act by supplementing the list of national holidays with Children's Protection Day, as well as by supplementing the list of flag days in the Estonian Flag Act with both the Children's Protection Day and the Grandparents' Day. So together, basically, three changes have been introduced into the law. The flag day of 1 June highlights the importance of the message of Child Welfare Day, which is to value the well-being and protection of children in Estonian society. In our opinion, the change will also have a positive overall social impact on the well-being of children and families with children. The original proposal to supplement the Holidays and Celebrations Act with this point, which sets 1 June as the Day of Child Welfare for the national anniversary and flag day, was submitted on 30 December 2019 by the Child Protection Union together with various organisations for the rights and well-being of the child. The proposal was supported by the Association of Workers of the Estonian Replacement Home, the Association of Estonian Open Youth Centres, the Association of Estonian Children's Educators, the Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families, the Association of Estonian Youth Associations, the Association of Estonian Social Work, the Association of Estonian Mental Health and Wellbeing, the Association of Estonian Students' Union, the NGO Each Child's Family, the NGO Children's Protection Association, NGO Oma Pere, SA EELK Family Centre, the SEB Charity Foundation, the Student Union of the University of Tartu, the Association of NGOs as well as the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Institution. On this subject we also negotiated in January with the Minister of Population Riina Solman, who also considered it important to make a change. On the one hand, we considered the issue of celebrating Child Welfare Day, which had been put forward as a concrete proposal, and we found it reasonable to supplement the law with the principle of grandparents' Day. That is why the Government of the Republic has initiated this bill in this form. I believe that the celebration of both days, on the one hand, signals intergenerational cohesion, stresses and recalls the role of both children and grandparents, the appreciation of both contributions in the family and society at large. As mentioned earlier, since this issue has been addressed, at least in the key to Child Protection Day, already earlier in this Chamber or in Parliament as a whole, I believe that the draft and principle could have the support of the whole Parliament. But thank you for your attention and I am ready to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U245	Questions. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U246	Thank you. As you yourself have already said, the same draft with similar content and, at times, word for word, was tabled by the members of the opposition already in January. But what I didn't understand is that you said that because of the COVID crisis, it was kind of on hold. I'll see when you have this bill. The government discussed this on 26 March, the day that 134 people were infected in Estonia. And you presented it to the Riigikogu on 6 April, as well as at a time when this whole crisis was still at its peak, the protection measures were lacking, so many topics had to be dealt with. Please tell me where this idea has come from, that in the midst of the biggest crisis, we will begin to develop a draft that actually already exists in Parliament's proceedings. Is it so imperative that the Government of the Republic is written as the author of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U247	Thank you for your question. I referred in particular to the fact that, as far as I know, Parliament itself decided to postpone somewhat the proceedings on the drafts initiated by the Social Democratic Party and the Reform Party. If I have wrong information, of course, please specify. As regards the proposal that we have tabled, indeed, the primary so-called indication that this proposal should be supported, I gave on 18 December 2019. It was not yet a crisis of the coronavirus. We started developing this draft in cooperation with the Minister for Population in January 2019, nor was it a crisis of the Coronavirus, the spread of the COVID-19. As such we initiated the draft on 14 February 2020, we jointly referred the draft to the Government of the Republic, which, after the round of coordination, really came to the agenda on 26 March. In that sense, you're right. But as you are undoubtedly aware, as the Prime Minister who has led the government for a long time, the government usually does not open all ten or twenty points. This particular point, too, did not, of course, have a long discussion that day. Perhaps we really discussed issues related to the crisis in the COVID-19 more widely at the Cabinet meeting that day, but formal approval, like other items on the agenda, was given at that moment. I think it would have been a little bit incomprehensible to postpone or withdraw it because it did not require any temporal resource. As has been said, the draft had been drawn up in the past, the draft had been submitted in the past, the draft had been initiated in the past. Government decisions, as you know as a former Prime Minister, do not require a broad-based debate in the government, if they have already passed the coordination cycle and were essentially approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U248	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U249	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I remember well when Prime Minister Jüri Ratas received a mandate to form a government before the Riigikogu. He then stressed the importance of cooperation and also the importance of cooperation with the opposition. Last week we saw the vote on Jüri Jaanson's bill, supported by both the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Social Affairs, both led by the Central Party, on a proposal from your political group. Today I learned that the draft law that I have initiated, which has passed the first reading, has also already been decided to vote down, even though it has broad support in the field of education. I am not talking at all about the amendments to the additional budget, which were practically all voted down. I ask you: where is the cooperation with the opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U250	Thank you for your question. I think cooperation is on a daily basis, though. [[In the diner.]] This has been the case, for example, during the corona crisis, and I know that the Prime Minister has had regular meetings, discussions with the body of elders. In the context of a specific amendment, as has been said, both the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party have expressed public support for the proposal of the Alliance for Child Welfare. Now the government coalition has also initiated this draft, complementing it with the principle of grandparents' day. I think that the honour of this initiative can, in my opinion, be shared by all five parliamentary parties. As I said, the original honor here belongs to the Child Welfare Association. I think that cooperation must, of course, be improved, strengthened. Commenting on these specific drafts, as regards the proposals put forward by Mr Jaanson, they were, in principle, supported and, of course, continued to be supported by the Ministry of Social Affairs. When we talk about the issue of hearing people and deaf people, about making national broadcasting programmes and programmes available to them, that is certainly the right direction. In fact, in some ways, we have also supported and implemented this direction during the Coronavirus crisis, when we have found an opportunity to translate press conferences into sign language. There is no doubt that this should move forward; there is no question at all. As far as the other drafts are concerned, every bill has a preliminary story, so let's discuss it one at a time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U251	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U252	I am glad to hear that this cooperation is so effective that it will not be able to follow up immediately. But we have two more points ahead of us after the government's excellent bill and these are essentially the same drafts. I note that on these subsequent points, the Government of the Republic gave its opinion at its meeting on 13 February. On 13 February, the proposal of the Socialist and Reform Party on Child Protection Day was discussed and the aim was generally supported. Even if you have been in office for just over a year as a member of the government, as former head of the Prime Minister's office, you know very well that there is a format of amendments in the Riigikogu. Why is such a petty tantrum that there's a government stamp on it so important to you? Instead, an amendment could have been tabled on the draft of the sots and Reform Party, which are likely to be added.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U253	Thank you for your question. No, it's not that important to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U254	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U255	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. However, I recalled that the Centre Party has worked very constructively with the opposition on a draft issue. That was the thwarting of the reversal of the reform of the pharmacy, if I may say so. One point of cooperation between the Reform Party and the Centre Party certainly does. But when the crisis began, the opposition promised not to criticise, or at least to be modest, with criticism of the government, because the situation was so new to everyone. Why did the government not want to respond in the same way, but, at a time of urgency, began to work out its own draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U256	Thank you for your question. As I have pointed out, yes, the question was that we had supported this particular proposal earlier, which concerns the proposal of the Alliance for Child Welfare. Our proposal, along with the Minister for Population, was indeed such as to extend this spectrum to Grandparents' Day as well. Whether it is a separate draft, a joint draft, a consolidated draft, an amendment, I think it is already a legal technical issue. For me to be honest, this is certainly not the most important thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U257	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U258	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I was really sad to hear the answer you gave to Mr Kersna's question. Do you really see the cooperation and why you still reject the opposition parties' drafts?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U259	Thank you for your question. The content of these drafts is largely overlapping, not entirely, but on a very wide scale. I believe that the most important thing in politics is content, not form. If, in essence, there is a consensus on the matter, then it should not be important who is the initiator of the draft, who is the author of it. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Once again, as far as I am concerned, this proposal can be considered by all the parliamentary groups. As has been said, the original honor belongs either to the Child Welfare Association or to the organisations that submitted it. That's the question, I think, applicable both ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U260	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U261	Thank you. Whether it is reasonable to draw up, discuss, coordinate and process a separate draft between January and April, and also today during this crisis, is obviously different in mind. But I took these drafts. Okay, I may be biased about my groupmates' draft, so let us take the draft Social Democrats and compare it with the draft proposed by the government. Indeed, it is literally similar, with one difference, it is added that the second Sunday of September is grandparents' day. That's it, that's it. Was it really necessary for this small addition to the Social Democrat bill to be dealt with separately for several months? Could we agree instead on a matter such that the government will withdraw its draft and, together, we will support the draft Social Democrats, for example? Would that be conceivable to you? As a reform party, I am prepared to salute the Social Democrats if that would comfort you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U262	Thank you for your question. As far as the state of play is concerned, these drafts, as is said, have been under discussion both in coordination and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. At the moment, it does not seem reasonable to begin to withdraw the draft in a situation where it is somewhat more comprehensive than the other two drafts. [[Voices from the floor.]] Once again, it isn't. If we compare the Reform Party with the draft, there are two differences concerning the wording of the draft, and, as my colleague pointed out, there is a difference between the draft Social Democrats and Grandparents' Day. Our draft envisages a total of three amendments, the Reform Party's envisaged one, the Social Democrats' two, when we talk purely legal and compare the text of the draft. So this concrete draft includes a proposal from both the Socialists and the Reform Party. I don't see any conflict here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U263	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U264	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I will actually continue a little bit with Mr Pevkur's question, which was not answered. You yourself pointed out in your story that in December you had the idea of developing such a bill, and then they started working on it. In February, we discussed the drafts of the Sots and Reform Party and decided that basically they would support it, but they would still come up with their drafts. Although this is an important subject and children's day must be valued, grandparents' day too, I believe that the Minister of Social Affairs has more serious issues to deal with, and that the Ministry also has them, especially in the situation where this draft is prepared. Please explain what the consideration was that you still decided to come up with a separate draft rather than propose a few improvements, which would mean adding a few sentences to the existing drafts. Question two. Hanno Pevkur asked who this government temple was important to. You said you didn't. But tell me who it's important to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U265	Thank you for your question. As this is indeed a relatively short draft, there is little difference between making proposals for existing drafts or pointing out the draft separately, it fits into one of A4. As I said before, if we now start comparing the drafts one by one, we will still find the differences, but I think that is not the most important thing in this case. The government's decision to initiate the draft was due in particular to the fact that it was intended to deal with these two days together, as has been said, to amend both the flag law and the list of national deadlines, to make these changes at the same time, within the framework of a single draft. That was the consideration. To whom does this temple matter? I don't think it matters to anyone, to be honest.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U266	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U267	Oh, yeah, I'm listening to you, and I just don't get it. You say it doesn't matter who does it. Why, then, did you make this draft when, in fact, on 13 January, two drafts with the same wording had been introduced? On that occasion, when we discussed this substantive part of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when we dealt with the draft of the Socialists and Reform Party, because the government did not support this draft because the grandparents' day was wanted to be added, I suggested that we add the grandparents' day. No, it didn't work. The government wants to come with their bill. As far as I know, there will be a necessary coordination circle, there will be officials working on it, it will come on the agenda of the government, it will be discussed, it will be confirmed, etc. Why are you so afraid of the opposition that you will have to do such an empty job rather than come and just say in the Coalition Council that we support the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, let us just make a correction there?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U268	Thank you! I'm not afraid of the opposition. If you want to analyze these drafts, we can do it. The reform party's proposal was to complement the list of national dates with the Day for Child Welfare. The Socialist proposal was to supplement the list of national anniversaries with the Day for Child Protection and to add it to the flag days. So these two drafts are a little different. Our proposal is to make these two changes and, in addition, to make the grandparents' day a flag day, to add them to the list of flag days. Maybe it's somewhat more comprehensive, but in the end, it essentially includes these two drafts. We should have picked which one or which one is better. I don't think that would make any real sense. It is generally the government coalition, one can say, the usual practice that the draft laws are initiated by ministries, the drafts pass through the coordination circle and then they arrive in the Chamber. It's a common practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U269	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U270	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, You are certainly aware that, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we have dealt in a row and in a row with only cluster drafts; the government must completely amend its drafts with amendments. I am not talking about this one cluster bill, but we also had the exact same draft on the agenda yesterday, where the government is changing its own law. Now we are saying that there are two amendments to the opposition bill that could have been amended, or even one could have been made by the coalition, and this bill would have become one that could have been suitable for the government coalition. But you said earlier that Jüri Jaanson's law was supported by two committees led by the Central Party and by you as Minister of Social Affairs, who you are also a Central Party, but then the Central Party Group came and proposed an interruption. I'm asking who's gonna decide what's going on and what's not going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U271	Thank you for your question. The questions are starting to happen again, I'm afraid the answers will happen again. For me, as I said, it does not matter whether it is initiated by one, another or third party. I think the contents matter. In substance, if these changes become effective, they will benefit both children and grandparents and the Estonian state as a whole. As far as the drafts remain in force or not, this will of course be decided by Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U272	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U273	Thank you. I understand that the content is very important to you, the form is not important, nor is it the person presenting it, but it is important that you are the author. But tell me how you came up with this idea, how you developed it. Did you have any intention of developing a coordination ring, what the government had and how you generally broke through with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U274	Thank you for your question. Even though I understand your irony, I have to admit there were disputes. The debate was, for example, about a more ambitious approach, as our initial wish would have been, to be even stronger than the proposal of the Alliance for Child Welfare and why not make 1 June a day off, so to speak, more than a degree ahead. But we knew that there might be no consensus and then the same argument arises for other days, even though some of them are on the weekend. At the time, however, we maintained the original proposal of the Alliance for Child Welfare, adding grandparents' day. There was no really big debate after that. That was the part everyone agreed to. With regard to the change of day off, which would also be a nice idea for spending 1 June with children, regardless of whether it is a weekend day or a working day, this idea will have to be brought back to later.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U275	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have reason to believe that you're lying to us from the remote when you say that it doesn't matter to you who's presenting. I'm trying to explain. If it were not so important to you, as your minister, you would have proposed to merge or supplement these existing drafts, or to propose to both political groups that these drafts be dealt with together in such a way as to produce one over the draft. But it was important to you that the government bring it here. That wasn't enough. Now it was necessary for the coalition to put it on the agenda before these drafts, which stood here for months. As a minister, you would have had the opportunity to signal to the board or the Riigikogu committee that your draft does not need to be dealt with earlier, but to do it in this natural order, but it was all very important to you. This is the second time I've been embarrassed in this hall. The first time we voted on Jüri Jaanson's draft concerning sign language. Please tell me I'm wrong!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U276	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U277	Thank you for your question. Yeah, you're wrong. With the moment, you're assigning me some kind of wishes and requests that I've never expressed anywhere. I am not dealing with Parliament's agenda, the order of the drafts, nor is it about merging them; this can be done by parliamentary committees, parliamentary parties, Parliament as a whole and, of course, the Riigikogu Board. None of them have I put pressure in one direction or the other, so I should not say that it is so important to me that they are dealt with in the order in which they are dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U278	Thank you. Good waitress! I listen carefully and with interest, and I can see that you are not very comfortable there. You would probably have been able to save yourself from this inconvenience if you hadn't taken this bill to the government. You're saying it doesn't matter to you, but it didn't end up on the table in the cabinet by itself. Someone had to take him there. Certainly, much energy and effort would have been saved in the government if it had been possible to move forward with the Socialists or with our draft, or with the two of them in addition. Maybe you'll explain why you went to all this trouble. That's the first question. And secondly, frankly, I was disturbed when you said that you had such a custom in the government that the government would initiate drafts. Why don't you explain what Parliament's role in the drafts is?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U279	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U280	Thank you very much for your feedback! Then let's start at the beginning. I presented him, in particular, because it would really be a comprehensive approach and there would be ample likelihood that he would pass the parliamentary procedure successfully. In this sense, what is more important is to achieve the objective and the proposal that we ourselves actually submitted together with the Alliance for Child Welfare on 18 December to Members of Parliament. In this sense, I find it a little strange to be here in a situation where I myself have been one of the authors of the proposal to Parliament. Now I feel that Parliament is saying that it has submitted a proposal to me or to the government. But that's it. As far as the other side of the question is concerned... Excuse me, what was the other part of your question connected to? [[There's an answer in the hall.]] Yeah, sorry, my bad, I forgot. Of course, Parliament can [do this]. As I have pointed out before, it is again such a legal theoretic debate. Once in the '90s, there were very many draft laws initiated by Parliament. Gradually, this centre of gravity has moved towards the government. You can look at it from the statistics. It is such a practice that it has become more the case in different ministries, where there have also been plans to develop, when more broad-based things have taken place, the drafting of drafts have taken place in the main, and Parliament has been primarily the one who, according to what it considers to be the right drafts of the legislative power, whether it deals with or excludes from the procedure, radically changes in the Commission, makes various inclusion events, decides what form to support, what changes to make, and then, during the first, second and third readings, shape its assessment. Of course, Parliament will also retain the possibility and the right to initiate drafts itself. This has also been done all the time, but it is simply an indisputable statistic that the proportion of government-initiated drafts has gradually increased among all the draft laws. Either you like it or you don't like it, you can have a debate about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U281	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U282	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You're trying heroically to speak black white, but it doesn't really work out very well. You say, on the one hand, that the temple doesn't matter, but your actions speak exactly the opposite. You say it doesn't matter. If there had not been a government bill in addition to the draft submitted by the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party, we would have already finished this item and you could have actually dealt with managing the crisis. We would have finished it by now, so even the length of the bill doesn't matter. But we now have three drafts, even two were not enough for the Government of the Republic, to put a third in there. Does this show the weakness or strength of the Government of the Republic if it does not dare to support even the draft proposed by the opposition on the most important issue in the world? Does this indicate the weakness or strength of the government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U283	Thank you for your question. I think that there will also be these drafts, which are initiated by opposition parties and supported by the government. They have always been in every Parliament, perhaps not so much and so much. Does it show weakness or strength? I don't think it shows either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U284	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U285	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking as a parent and a grandmother. I would like to say that it is surprising to me that this bill is not defended by the Minister of Population Riina Solman, but by today, I think that you are still defending it during a rather critical period. Undoubtedly, you are a capable politician, but since this is really an important law, I want to know whether there was no possibility in the government that this anti-prohibition bill by the Reform Party and the Social Democrats would be defended in this Chamber by a Prime Minister who emphasizes family values. Was there such a discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U286	Thank you for your question. There was no such discussion in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U287	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U288	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. On the basis of today's debate, I have a question. At the very beginning, you said that this bill was not discussed very thoroughly in the government, if it is a simple matter, then no time will be spent on it. However, you replied to Jürgen Ligi that these different nuances around there still gave rise to a heated debate. Question: was there a debate or was there no debate? As far as I am concerned, this was the government's discussion on 26 March, when the crisis picked up the full tours, we had 134 more infected in 24 hours, and 27 March began to be subject to restrictions in shopping centres. I imagine there were a lot of serious issues on the government table. Absolutely undignified on this subject: was it really possible for the government in times of crisis and time to deal with such a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U289	Thank you for your question. I answered that other side once, I can answer again. As far as the answer to Jürgen Ligi is concerned, as I have pointed out, in fact, in mid-December, the Alliance for Child Welfare wrote on this subject (not to me very much, to the organisation) and asked whether the Ministry of Social Affairs would be willing to support such a proposal. I've considered it, we've discussed it, we've supported it. That's what I said. The debate we held was that, if we now go beyond supporting this proposal, it was this simple e-mail, whether we could initiate a proposal not only to turn this day into a national anniversary and flag day, but to make it a real day for the Estonian people to spend child protection day in the family circle and in a "holy form." However, this debate was due to the fact that, since the addition of every day off always gives rise to a very thorough debate, very often it is not desirable to do so (the question is that, on the one hand, GDP growth must be guaranteed and any such decision, or the number of holidays in the country, will inevitably affect it), we took the first step, in cooperation with the Minister for Population, in January we decided to draw up a draft that would make the day of child protection a flag day and a national anniversary, and also make the day of grandparents a flag day. This was actually the debate. As far as the work of the government is concerned, I also pointed out that there were a lot of points on the agenda of the sitting on 26 March, that this point was not discussed in the open session, that is, it had already been agreed in January, in the meantime, in mid-February, jointly initiated by the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Population. I can assure you that at the time, the government did not spend the valuable time discussing this draft, which needed to be devoted to resolving the crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U290	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U291	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I didn't say you pushed this bill through. I looked around this hall and noticed a number of people here who have also been ministers. If the minister asks for his item to be on the agenda there or there, it is generally accepted. I was referring to the fact that you did not use your human heart to avoid being cynical and not to push through this political advance in order to push our bill back. This suggests that your words are not credible, and that is the whole story of possible declared cooperation with the opposition, unless even this draft is actually willing to cooperate. Nothing else, nothing else.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U292	Thank you for your question, as far as this personal insult can be called a question. But indeed, no, I did not make a wish in one direction or the other, either in front of this draft or in favour of raising it. To be honest, I was not so familiar with the order of the agenda, because no minister is putting together Parliament's agenda, you know that well. Indeed, if you say it was a cynical desire to push something through, I have never had such a wish. So please don't give it to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U293	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U294	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You answered my question. It doesn't matter who comes up with the bill. At the same time, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas speaks sincerely at every step about the importance of cooperation and how important it is for every member of the Riigikogu to make a contribution so that the Estonian state functions well. Does it not seem to you that you are not really showing the Estonian people that you do not take into account the proposals of the opposition parties and, in principle, are literally hijacking them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U295	Thank you very much for your question. It is very difficult for me to hijack a proposal that I have tabled a month earlier. I cannot agree with this because we supported the proposal of the Alliance for Child Welfare, it was a letter that came to Parliament, it also contains an entry from the Ministry of Social Affairs among the senders of the letter, because we supported this proposal together with these other organisations. Perhaps the charges of hijacking are not accepted. Okay. With regard to why we pointed out this draft, as I pointed out earlier, the aim was that children's day and grandparents' day should be treated equally. I do not think that this is something you can call crossing the opposition. The crossing would perhaps be when the opposition proposes to make Child Protection Day a flag day, and we certainly propose not to do so, so I would see the opposition crossing. With the moment, we are proposing to make Child Welfare Day a flag day, just as the Child Welfare Association has proposed, to make it a national anniversary and also to add a grandparent's day. Actually, we're all on the same side of the front line. So in this view, this whole confrontation is kind of amazing to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U296	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U297	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Do you agree with me that this behavior is petty? Knowing you, I don't want to believe that word applies to you. That's why I'm asking who made you submit this bill anyway. Secondly, if this idea existed earlier, then this draft was drawn up by the Reform Party Group and, figuratively speaking, you have written down, if not to say that you cheated. Do you remember what they did to those who cheated?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U298	Thank you! There are now quite a few questions. Nobody forced me, the government of the Republic decided so. As far as the draft text is concerned, I must admit that, as is customary in the ministry, the drafting of the draft is primarily carried out by officials in this area. As I have not put together the text, we agreed on principles in the coalition, as I referred to earlier. Then it seemed reasonable to make Child Welfare Day a national anniversary as well as a flag day, as well as to include grandparents' day, so that all generations would be included. That was the deal I made in January. Indeed, the question of formalisation was already further. If you feel that any points have perhaps been written down, this may also be due to the fact that one law can be amended in one very clear way. You can't turn Child Welfare Day into a flag day or a national deadline into a law with very many different wordings. It is likely that, logically, this wording should be relatively similar to that of a legal person.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U299	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U300	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, you are actually a reasonable man. We're messing around here for so long, and I understand that you're embarrassed to answer these questions, and frankly, we're embarrassed to ask, because we're confused. On 30 December, the letter you are referring to has been signed by 19 organisations, including the Social Security Office and the Ministry of Social Affairs. On 13 January, the Social Democrats launched a draft and the Reform Party launched one of the drafts resulting from this letter. You know very well that there is also a deadline for tabling amendments. Well, we could have proposed an amendment then, the two drafts would have been merged and the matter would have been resolved. I have a very simple question for you. I'm going to read a quote, and you're going to tell me the answer only whose quote it is: 'I know very well what it's like to be told that every idea you have is wrong. [---] When the opposition initiates a constructive and constructive amendment to the law, we discuss it rather than staggeringly reject it. I'm not saying it in my mouth, I'm saying it in my heart. '
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U301	Thank you for your question. Yeah, I know who the author of the quote is, as most people know in this hall. As far as this practice is concerned, I understand that the whole point of your question is, in fact, whether it could have been resolved differently, I think it is the whole point of this question or debate, of course, it could have been resolved differently, every thing can be resolved in many ways. When we see how much this is a debate and perhaps a lot of tension, no doubt in the future, if there are proposals with similar content, we will also consider the option that you have put forward, in other words to put forward an amendment and perhaps to save everyone energy and save them from the pain of breath.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U302	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U303	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! These questions now tend to be repeated, but indeed, the Child Welfare Association, along with several good partners and among them a very good partner from the Ministry of Social Affairs, made an appeal to 101 members of the Riigikogu. The two groups of the Riigikogu considered, made two drafts, regardless of each other, after the holidays on the first working day. You have said today that you considered and supported the appeal of the Alliance for Child Welfare, which you yourself had signed. When the two drafts initiated by the Riigikogu reached the government's table, you considered again, did not support them. In the middle of the crisis, at its height, you reconsidered and decided to make your draft. What is this psychological process? I'd like to understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U304	Thank you for your question. Once again, unfortunately, I must admit that you are misleading the public here with dates. Maybe when we were watching... the high point of the crisis sounded there. [[A voice from the hall.]] The highlight of the crisis was, in my opinion, the beginning of April in the middle of March. A specific draft was initiated by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Population on 14 February 2020. At that point, this thought process had already done its job, the initial arrangements within the coalition were in place and the drafts were sent to the coordination circle. [[A voice from the hall.]] It was in the government on 26 March and, as I referred to earlier, on the government's agenda, as you well know, as a rule, the points will not be opened, so that they can get there in a way that they have already agreed. The meetings of the government have been only a few minutes at times during Taavi Rõivas, Andrus Ansip and Jüri Ratas, since the agenda has been known earlier, the points have been discussed, coordinated and then going to the cabinet meeting, which takes at times six, at times ten and at times more hours, to discuss those issues that really need critical attention. That was the case this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U305	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U306	Thank you. It seems that we all acknowledge that the way the government acted in this case went very badly, and how many hours because of a matter in the sense of the content of which there seems to be a consensus in this Chamber is going to be wasted. But looking at how much time you actually have at the right moment to initiate a bill and go to government with it, and how much time does the government have to consider it and even discuss it in the middle of the darkest and fastest crisis, I have a question. Should we learn from this that, if, for example, the Association of Indigenous Carers writes to you and the Riigikogu that the reform of informal care should really go on, rather than considering further development plans, can it be assumed that, at the same pace as the specific bill we are talking about here, the reform of informal care will move on?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U307	Thank you for your question. The reform of long-term care must undoubtedly move forward and work is currently underway in the working groups. It has been somewhat suppressed due to the coronavirus crisis. However, as I described several times before, this work, which was carried out in the drafting and drafting of a specific draft, was carried out before the crisis. In this sense, there is no point in misleading the public and the hall as if, in the midst of a deep crisis, ministers had decided to sit down and thoroughly discuss and dissect this issue. That wasn't really the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U308	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U309	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Regrettably little has, of course, been said about the content of this bill in this Chamber. I would still like to ask one substantive question. Am I right to understand that this government initiative to come up with the flag day of Grandparents' Day is somehow intended as compensation or compensation for the lack of implementation of the Central Party electoral promise to raise pensions of EUR 100? If I am not mistaken, the extraordinary pension increase was 7 euros. I remember EKRE must have had even more courage in the promise of retirement, which was to double old-age pensions. Is it, like, the initiative of the Centre Party and the EKRE to compensate the elderly by at least putting a flag in front of Stenbock's house and making one of those Jüri Ratas video returns?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U310	Thank you for your question. No, it wasn't. When we talk about a pension rise, whether you like it or not, a total of EUR 45 is the largest sum in the last 12 years, inevitably it is also more than in those times when your home party today was in government. This extraordinary rise is also greater than those moments when your party was in government. So from this point of view, to blame the opposition on the government that, because of the limited budgetary possibilities, a reduced extraordinary increase will be made, if not at all, is also a bit incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U311	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U312	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a request and a question. The prayer is that please answer Helmen Hunt's question about the quote. The question is this: what should happen now so that you can tell us from this speaker that all right, really, I will either take this bill back or I will go back to the government office and say that we will withdraw this bill and proceed with the joint draft or either, the Socialists or the Reform Party? I mean, it's actually a possible thing. What's supposed to happen? Or is it completely out of the question, somehow at your honor and pride?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U313	Thank you! I answered Helmen Hunter's question that yes, I know who the author of the quote is, just as the rest of the hall knows. That was my answer. The second question is about the withdrawal of the bill. I honestly see no reason to take it back in a situation where it is in its ready form. As has been said, this includes these three changes. It also includes the changes proposed by the Alliance for Child Protection with its partners and supported by the Social Democrats and the Reform Party. It is of course Parliament's decision that drafts may be merged and separated, processed together, just as it decides the order in which they are dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U314	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U315	Thank you. Let's wrap this awkward debate up now. Correct me if I'm wrong. You sent the Riigikogu a proposal to turn Child Welfare Day into a flag day. When the Riigikogu adopted this proposal, you took the opinion of the Riigikogu and presented it yourself. Is the brief summary that you sent yourself a letter through the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U316	Thank you for your question. Indeed, it was that this proposal was first presented by the Child Welfare Association to the various parties involved. I'm not exactly aware of how many organisations it was sent to. But in the end, the size of 20 associations was signed, including the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Board in our view, in addition to a large number of non-profit institutions. The content of the proposal was to turn Child Welfare Day into a national deadline and flag day. There was, of course, no agreement on how exactly this must be done and which group must initiate it, or whether it must be done by all the political groups together or with the government. I don't think that's the most important thing, the thought matters, as they say. Indeed, this is the point we thought forward in December and January and January, so that we could make a change with the change of grandparents' day. Then we started working on the draft and, in the middle of February, we submitted it to the coordination circle. This is the summary of this timetable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U317	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U318	Thank you, Mr. President. Good Tanel, I'm gonna tease you too. Okay, here's what we're talking about. Both the Social Democrats and the Reform Party submitted their drafts before the crisis began, and the government carried it to the heart of the over-the-counter crisis on 6 or 7 April. You said before that since it was all prepared, that's why we did it, it wasn't like the new thing we picked up. But yesterday you told me here that Estonia's priority setting in the European Union is ready, too, but it is frozen, that there is no time to deliver, and the RES is ready, but there is no time to deliver it. In the priority table, do you think that Estonia's views on the future funding period of the European Union as well as the RES are more important behind you than the draft law that the government should deliver at a time of urgency?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U319	Thank you for your question. No, absolutely not. Once again, if the crisis had erupted in January or December or even early February, it would undoubtedly not have been at this rate in preparation for this draft. This was done before the crisis. He circled his natural course, and also on the government agenda, as has been said, it was not open, or was not spent on it, one can say, not one second of time during the crisis. That is why we did not consider it necessary in any way to slow down this process. The drafting of a national budget strategy, the negotiation of the European Union budget, as you well know, is... If I said hundreds of times, I'd do too much, it's thousands of times more time-consuming, all-state ministry-wide activity. Of course, during these debates during the crisis, it would not have been possible to hold discussions, just as, of course, during the crisis, this particular draft would not have been discussed. If you look at chronology, knowing how the government's agenda generally looks at how much time it takes for the meeting to take, you will understand that during the crisis, the members of the government did not deal with this particular issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U320	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U321	Thank you! Of course, I did not compare that, did I not? How great the pension increase was in previous governments and how great it was now, but I still compared what was a specific promise that was made before the elections. It was 100 euros. I remember it pretty well. This number magic... You're saying this pension increase is still much bigger. I don't know, even at the end of Santa's year, in front of the Riigikogu, he gave a seven-euro gift, I remember, to the middle party. I believe in Santa Claus, I think Santa knows how much the pension really went up. But that's my question. Okay, you've done it this year, but what year will the grandparents' day be fulfilled, is it 2021, 2022 or 2023? Well, at least specify that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U322	Thank you for your question. A very moody debate. As you well know, the state budget is not put together by a minister and it is not put together by one party, it is put together by a coalition, it is put together by Parliament, it is also adopted by Parliament. I have to say a specific year when the pension will rise by x is basically impossible on my own. There is no one answer to this question in this view.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U323	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U324	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. You and the government have been busy on holidays and holidays. A few nights ago, however, we sat here in a relatively small group, but from 10 o'clock in the evening, we discussed drug limits and nursing home fees. We broke up with the knowledge that these subjects are your job's priority. Soon, as of June, you will probably meet with members of the Riigikogu, which is why we meet with you relatively rarely. What are the priorities for your work until autumn? What are the most important issues on your desk for the next few months? I understand that this is not a real issue, but it is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U325	Thank you for your question. The most time-critical is what we are currently dealing with in cooperation with the Health Board and hospitals and, in fact, with the other departments of the Ministry of Social Affairs (Raviminät, Health Insurance Fund, Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre, as well as the National Institute for Health Development), which is, of course, preparing for the autumn period. We call this working document 'Life with COVID', or how to proceed in a situation where we know that the corona virus will probably not disappear from Estonia during the summer. At the moment, the epidemic has ended, but it may re-emerge, probably in the autumn, at a bad rate earlier. This is particularly the case with the testing strategy, the monitoring and identification of close contacts, the distribution of personal protective equipment, the increase in the supply of medicines, the cooperation of hospitals, as well as the planning of whether we leave separate hospitals and separate hospitals for patients with the Corona virus for the so-called scheduled treatment during the autumn period. These questions are currently on the table; they also require some changes to the law, but they mainly require government decisions and, of course, ministerial decisions and financial allocations. Of course, in addition to that, when we look out from the health field, the labour market is an area. I just got out of the unemployment fund board today. We've been negotiating for three hours. The aim is to extend the compensation measure by at least one month where possible. If, in cooperation with the government and in cooperation with Parliament again, there should be an opportunity to increase this amount of money, then we would be happy to extend it longer. We can see that very many employers and workers are struggling in the labour market. There is also the reform of unemployment benefit, which would also like to move forward, i.e. increasing the level and length of time of benefits, increasing unemployment benefit, as well as increasing unemployment insurance contributions from target groups to board members and self-employed persons. In addition, there are a number of smaller points concerning seasonal workers and others. In the social sphere, I would say, the most time-critical and important of the major issues is undoubtedly the same care insurance that has been mentioned, or rather the reform of long-term care where solutions need to be found. We know at the moment that this year, the financial allocations that have reached this area, the special care, have been quite small, in previous years as well. There is a need to increase public expenditure, in addition to helping local authorities to organise social services. On the one hand, we have done so by means of a health insurance contract that provides nursing care in nursing homes through improving the control of infection and such cooperation. But when we talk about people's own contribution to paying for and receiving services, there is a lot of work to be done here. I'm sure it'll have to be dealt with during the summer. The plan is to meet with representatives of local governments, of course the Ministry and stakeholders. Many of these issues have received unearned little attention in the last few months, as the crisis in COVID-19 and related issues, both in the health sector and in the labour market sector, have taken a fundamental time. There has also been good cooperation with Parliament in the swift adoption of the supplementary budget and in supporting the various laws, most recently today. It's such a short shot, I can talk a lot longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U326	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U327	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Previously, there was a debate in answer to the questions here and your opinion was on the moment of the crisis and when it was over. But in my opinion, the crisis is actually gaining momentum, and it is a crisis on the part of the government that slows down any initiative taken by the Riigikogu. However, since you mentioned that you did not expect such a confrontation in this draft, but it is obvious today, it is obvious that there is this confrontation and justified confrontation, would you be willing to discuss, be the first minister to take a step forward in order to break this crisis, to withdraw the draft of this government, and we will all go forward with the draft that has already been tabled, but supplemented by amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U328	Thank you for your question. However, as I referred to earlier, I would rather maintain the view that there is no need for readmission. Whether Parliament decides to deal with these drafts separately or together is Parliament's decision. Of course, this can also be done 'group'.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U329	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U330	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. While the government discussed this draft on 26 March, the government also remembered that it had given an opinion on the opposition's drafts of the same meaning. Was there also an opportunity to make a small amendment to the opposition's drafts and not to initiate its own draft? What were the main arguments for and against the government's decision to come up with its draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U331	Thank you for your question. I also pointed out earlier that this draft was not open at the meeting on 26 March. Maybe it was an item on the agenda, one among many. I am not going to tell you how many items were on the agenda. It's usually between 10 and 20. Perhaps this issue was not discussed, since at that moment there were really more time-critical questions on the table. This is also another reason, as I pointed out earlier, that I really, quite honestly did not foresee that this would be the kind of confrontation that has arisen today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U332	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U333	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. It seems to me that you do not really remember that the government has given an opinion on certain drafts, or simply do not want to remember what is going on today's debate. May I remind you that the Ministry of Social Affairs has given a supportive position on draft law 115 on psychiatric assistance, which is very time-critical and relevant to your administration? This concerns the possibility for minors, young people aged 16 to 18, to seek a psychiatrist if they have domestic violence, harassment or other problems. The Social Affairs Committee has discussed this, employees of the Ministry of Social Affairs, employees of the Ministry of Education and Research have approved it. I'm just reminding you that suddenly you're talking to your partymate and reminding him that it's been tried three or four times to bring it to second reading. This is your area of administration, this is a very important bill. These things happen in committees. Why don't you pull yourself together and talk to the chairman of the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U334	Thank you for your question. On this subject, I have been in contact with several members of the Riigikogu, including members of the government. As has been said, when we gave our opinion, we supported the proposal, as the Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out this problem. Perhaps, on the one hand, a person, including a child, must have the right to receive help and treatment even if his or her parent decides not to take advantage of his or her interests or to deny him or her the opportunity to do so. So, in this sense, I certainly support the objective of the draft. It is of course up to the Commission as a whole to decide when the draft will be dealt with exactly. It is the decision of the coalition, or it is the joint decision of the coalition and the opposition, but I very much hope that this law will come into force for one moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U335	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U336	Good manager! Good waitress! We're all focusing on Child Welfare Day and Grandparent Day, but I'd like to ask you more. Has the government discussed what other days could be national dates and flag days? As we know, Estonia has been quite stingy with these days and the balance between national dates and flag days is not uniform either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U337	Thank you for your question. I must remind you of the moment, but I am afraid that this issue has not been on the agenda. I may be wrong here, I just can't remember it by heart, but certainly these proposals can continue to come from the government, Parliament and stakeholders, it is then a national anniversary or a flag day or both. I think that drawing attention to such issues with such decisions is important in this respect. It will still help to focus on some concerns, some problems, it will be the creation of the day of the municipalities, as was the case some time ago, or it will be the so-called regularisation of these two days, an emphasis. I think for many, it was a surprise that children's day is not really a day in law. Only now will it be in the law if Parliament supports it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U338	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U339	Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U340	I would like to ask Mr Kallas, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U341	Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this issue on 5 May 2020 through the video bridge. This whole debate focused on the same issues that went through this Chamber. Since we had essentially discussed this issue, the importance of the Day for the Protection of Children and the raising of flags to the children on 1 June, when we discussed the drafts of the Socialist and Reform Party Group, which took place already in March, we did not need to repeat this on the substantive side. These were the main questions. As the minister in the committee spoke long and wide, but did not say a word about the fact that the relevant drafts were already in the proceedings in the Riigikogu, the question immediately arose as to whether the Government of the Republic was unaware of what was going on in the Riigikogu, that such drafts already existed, these discussions had taken place. The minister then said that they had this idea already in December and it is important that the target is reached. There was a debate on whether, at the height of the crisis, the law on holidays and holidays should be dealt with. When the Government of the Republic discussed this on 26 March and on 6 April submitted the draft for procedure to the Riigikogu, is it reasonable? There was a debate about what the government is and what Parliament's role is. The Minister said that this proposal certainly did not want to reduce Parliament's role. These were basically the topics of the debate. Oh, there was another important question. Siim Kisler, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, asked that it was Mother's Day, Father's Day, Children's Day, Grandparents' Day, but there are still a number of categories that were discussed in order, for example, to do grandson's day and great-grandparent's day. The minister replied that the general practice has been that, if, for example, it is grandparents' day, congratulations are also being made on this day for the orphans and the raspberry, it is appropriate to congratulate all children on Child Welfare Day. That was, in principle, the very scope of the debate. In the same way, the question was whether the government would not withdraw its draft. In this regard, Tanel Kiik replied that the bill was not to be withdrawn. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposed that it would be possible to merge the drafts after the first reading. The Commission supported the appointment of 10 working days by the deadline for the submission of amendments, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Decisions taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 13 May (consensually), to propose that the first reading be closed (also consensually) and to appoint a rapporteur (also consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U342	There are questions. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U343	Thank you. Good waitress! Since the draft proposed by the government was not discussed too much in substance, since the substantive discussions had been held in the past during the hearings of the Socialists and Reform Party drafts in March, I have the question: what was the content of the debate in March on these substantive matters and what were the opinions of the representatives of the coalition parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U344	Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is probably the more appropriate answer to this question, because he has this protocol concerning this debate. But according to my memory, we also discussed the importance of children and why children's day couldn't be the flag day. There was also talk of grandparents' day, and it was known that the government would not support our drafts. The proposal was to propose an amendment to these drafts. But the essence seemed to be universal support, I do not remember that there would have been very great opposition. Obviously, Mr Paul Puustusmaa can repeat it more precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U345	Thank you. No further questions. It is now possible to open negotiations. During the negotiations, speeches can be made by representatives of the political groups. There is no wish for negotiation. The negotiations are over and we have a proposal from the lead committee to conclude the first reading of draft 172. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 5.15 p.m. on 27 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U346	Let's keep going. Agenda item No 9, Draft law on the amendment of the Holidays and Holidays Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu Jüri Jaanson, Signe Kivi, Signe Riisalo, Toomas Kivimägi, Mart Võrklaadi, Annely Akkermanni, Kaja Kallas, Liina Kersna, Vilja Toomasti, Yoko Alendri, Andrus Seed and Andres Sut. Let's start the first reading. Signe Riisalo, member of the Riigikogu, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U347	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the fact that I have not seen such a large, substantial, goal-oriented consensus between the coalition, the opposition and the government for a long time. No one is questioning the fact that it could be the flag day of 1 June, Child Welfare Day. Excellent situation! What's more amazing is that we've been having an argument here for a long time, and it's probably going on that whose bill was the first one to think about who was watching who started the trial. This is ridiculous. We are not only looked at in this hall, but we are looked at throughout Estonia. People have trusted us here by choosing. They would like us to remain of value to this institution. However, at the first time, or at the same time in substance, the drafts aimed at turning Child Protection Day into a flag day, the Reform Party with the Social Democratic Party, were separate drafts. What was our motive? Our motivation was very simple. The Child Welfare Association, together with a number of recognised experts and organisations in the field of child protection, including, once again, the Social Insurance Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs, supported this idea and had signed it. There is nothing more natural from the position of a member of the Riigikogu than to seize the proposal, which is positive in every way, and then to prepare this draft and initiate it in the Riigikogu. It is quite amazing that the government, which had not supported our draft, came here with its draft. On the procedural side, it is certainly worth noting that when the draft is initiated, we usually do first reading in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu within seven weeks. The virus surprised the whole of Estonia, and the Riigikogu decided that we could make an exception and postpone the future of first reading. And oh surprise, the government has submitted a draft within that time, found time to discuss it in the government and found time to discuss it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As I understood from the presentation by the Commission's rapporteur, there was, in fact, no substantive debate on the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic. However, it is important to note that the substantive debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took place precisely in the debate on the two drafts, which was then presented by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and Reform Party. In any case, we have gone very far from what Child Welfare Day is in itself. In order to get closer to content, I will remind you, in a few words, what is Child Welfare Day, which is its history. Children's Day will be an event with 100 years of history in five years' time. Children's Day began to be celebrated in America and was actually dedicated at first to the homeless Chinese children who lived in America. Children's Day has been celebrated in Estonia for years. Perhaps it is also important to understand that child protection is not only and merely the protection of a child, a vulnerable, homeless, without parents, but it means that there are young people growing up next to us, that is not to say whether we are hearing a child, but whether we are listening to a child, whether we are just looking at a child or whether we are seeing a child. We are talking in the context of Child Protection Day about the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, about the rights of the child, about the well-being of the child and about ensuring it. This is precisely the reason why the initiators and visitors, at the head of the Alliance for Child Welfare, have wanted the child to be visible in our society and therefore the possibility of celebrating this day as a flag day could also be included. But once again, there is an amazing consensus in this Chamber on the objective and there is no consensus on the whole issue of the procedure. Let's look in the mirror and think carefully about whether we've been invited here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U348	Thank you very much. Questions. Kristina Shmigun-Luke.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U349	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Very good report, thank you. For the sake of the verbatim, could you please give a date review of the birth of Bill 131?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U350	Yeah. All of you, 101 members of the Riigikogu, received the address of this Child Welfare Association in your mailbox at the end of last year, 30 December, which had been signed by very different parties. Then came the Christmas peace, and on the day the Riigikogu started working again, at the first session, 131 drafts were handed over here in the Riigikogu Hall. On 10 March there was a debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and today we are here at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U351	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U352	Good manager! Good waitress! Old people have quite rightly said that it doesn't matter what color the cat is, as long as it catches mice. My question is: do you think that the wisdom of the old people is still valid today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U353	Good colleague! I think this question has been put to the wrong addressee. I am convinced that this statement is valid, but the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Social Affairs would not have had the need not to support the two drafts already pending and to come here with an additional draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U354	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U355	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I say, procedurally inappropriately, but to answer Mr. Ernits, I prefer a cat that's faster. Thank you very much for a meaningful and balanced presentation. Here's my question for you. If you were the Minister of Social Affairs and you had a similar situation where the government coalition has the will to submit a bill similar to that already in the Riigikogu, would you have the courage to say that no, we do not have the need to present it, we will deal with the draft that exists in Parliament, even though it is submitted by the opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U356	Although I consider myself an empathetic person, it is somewhat difficult to get into Tanel Kiig's shoes. But I am certainly a person who is aimed at the objective, and instead of Tanel Kiige in this case, I would really give up this campaign of violence right now and have the drafts put before the Riigikogu, the legislator, dealt with in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U357	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U358	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, During the protection of the previous draft, Social Minister Tanel Kiik said that these two drafts still have a significant difference, that theirs is more comprehensive, the government's then, and there is also a proposal that grandparents' day be turned into flag day. As rapporteur for the Reform Party's draft, do you think that if the government or Prime Minister still had to propose that the Reform Party's draft be supplemented by this grandparents' day, could the Reform Party Group support this? Would we be open to such a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U359	In fact, the Reform Party Group and the Socialist Group already expressed their willingness to merge our two drafts in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 10 March. That's a first. Certainly, the Reform Party Group is not against the possibility of the Government of the Republic making improvements to the draft law. As we know, the practice of the Riigikogu, especially now in times of crisis, has very much tended to the fact that the original initiator, or government, is presenting a huge variety of proposals for additions to the draft, and we have also strongly welcomed them. This was the case with the Social Welfare Act, where the Riigikogu was very flexible with regard to the Government's wishes and added support to families of children with disabilities and special needs. This is also the case with the draft medical device law that we have been discussing today. There's a readiness.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U360	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U361	Thank you. Good waitress! Please explain why it is so important to you that it is your party from here to pick up this point. Do you not agree with the Minister for Social Affairs that it does not matter whether the initiator of the draft is a coalition or an opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U362	I think that the Riigikogu should primarily observe its own rules of procedure. Our own Rules of Procedure Act says the same thing: seven weeks from the initiation of the draft. Because of the crisis in the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu promised generously to postpone it, but this situation was exploited, I would stress again that during the crisis, the government that came in with its draft. I don't think it's just nice. We have no shortage of generosity. We are very happy to share the position of initiator with the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U363	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U364	Good manager! Good waitress! Right now, it's all about what color this cat should be. But, as we know, the Alliance for Child Welfare came up with this idea as early as June 1, 2018. It is now 2020 and it will soon be 1 June. Why didn't you come up with this before? You came all together? Or was it related to the corona that since this [day] was meant for Chinese children, that somehow leaned towards China, that now everyone is rushing in the same direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U365	That's right. The Alliance for Child Welfare did not have this idea today or yesterday; it has been a long-term idea. Why did we come up with that now? Here is the correction: we did not come up with it during the corona crisis; we came up with it in January when the Riigikogu first met within this year's number and did not know much about the virus and the crisis at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U366	Thank you. No further questions. Now I ask the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Paul Puustusmaa, to present here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U367	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to abuse your time here very much, and I will try to quickly enlighten you on how these issues were discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. To this extent, I would like to bring to you this frame and the idea that it is understandable that customs and customs, respect for certain days, or events, must come from within people first, above all. In certain situations, of course, it has become a practice that some events are celebrated as official holidays, which are described in legislation. We also have this in Estonia that when we start thinking, we see that we have four categories of holidays. We have a national holiday, one on February 24. We have ten public holidays. We have national dates, 14 of them. We still have the flag days, 16 of them. If we add them all together (partly overlapping flag days and national holidays), we will have 30 days, which are marked by the legislation. It is therefore right that we should always consider the question of how many days we set and whether they are necessary. Indeed, as the rapporteurs have said and explained earlier, the day of child protection, which is very necessary, could be emphasized in recognition of our society's attitude to this day, our attitude to children. I know that a lot of people are extremely happy about it, they sincerely and heartily hope that through child protection day we will be able to protect this human being, this small and fragile human being even more strongly than we are now doing, even at this fragile age when it is not yet born. So that day has a big meaning. But indeed, if the question of Signe and the date was before, when was it discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which was exactly that date and what was discussed in the committee, then I can make that point. I will present this debate in the Commission, saying in advance that the draft 131 was indeed launched on 13 January and the initiators were Jüri Jaanson, Signe Kivi, Signe Riisalo, Toomas Kivimägi and others. It was on 10 March in the Commission, which then called for Child Welfare Day, or 1 June, to be noted as a national deadline. It has been mentioned earlier that the government also had a position. The government gave this position on this draft 131 and on the next 132, which is very similar. The government made clear and understandable that the objectives of the law are generally supported in all ways, but do not support the draft law in this form. That was the government's position. As I said, including on 10 March, this draft was in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The committee was chaired by me, the members of the committee were Kalle Grünthal, Kaja Kallas, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Lauri Läänemets, Hanno Pevkur, and Signe Riisalo was also represented as alternate member of Taavi Rõivas and also as representative of the initiator. Then we had Maarja Kärson, adviser to the Child Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Varje Ojala, representative of the NGO Child Welfare Association. Indeed, I also have to say here that these recognitions have been divided by the Signe Riisalo very well explained why it might be necessary. This draft was 'first reading' and was never in the Commission's perception or feeling that this day should not be supported or supported. Either way, it didn't feel like it. Signe Riisalo noted, among other things, that Estonia stands out as a very progressive country in the field of child protection, but even though the physical punishment of children in our country is prohibited, many parents believe that a small penalty would not hurt. The significance of this day is important to change that attitude. In addition to Mothers, Fathers, Grandparents' Day, it is recommended that children's day be celebrated in order to change this attitude. In view of the fact that the Social Democratic Party Group, which will be discussed on the next item on the agenda, has also tabled a similar draft with one aim of merging the drafts by the Commission after the first reading. The drafts could be combined in such a way as to identify two political groups as initiators. Here's the point of the government bill, as it were ruled out. But as long as he catches mice, it doesn't matter what color that cat is. According to Pulpland, this is a pleasant initiative, and perhaps it was unclear to me that one draft wants to turn child protection day into a flag day as well, and not the other. In addition, Signe Riisalo replied that, in the case of Bill 131, part of the members of the Reform Party Group's wish was that the Day for Child Protection should also be the flag day on 1 June. Kaja Kallas added that all other flag days are aimed at what we value, such as mothers, mother tongue, veterans, etc., and should be given the message that children are equally important to us. Ms Kärson noted that although the Ministry of Social Affairs fully supports the content of the draft, the Government of the Republic has not supported the draft in this form. For its part, the Ministry of Social Affairs has prepared a draft of this kind, which provides for the designation of the Day of Child Protection as a national anniversary and flag day, and has also added to it the designation of the Day of Grandparents as the flag day. Kaja Kallas said that child protection should certainly be a cross-party issue that no one argued against. Kalle Grünthal also asked in the Commission what exactly will accompany Child Welfare Day, either simply by entering it in the calendar or by giving special attention to children. More specifically, Kalle Grünthal wanted to know if and how this pays particular attention to children who do not have parents. In the first place, Varje Ojala replied, who said that, in the context of this deadline, all children, apart from Signe Riisalo, were considered important, that no child should be given extra attention on that day, that children should be labelled separately, and that particularly vulnerable groups were not justified. Children in the orphanage need attention, care and love every day. Kalle Grünthal agreed with the previous speaker and stated that his reasoning was that children in the orphanage usually lose their parental attention on that day. Grünthal did not mean that the distinction should be specifically highlighted or publicly labelled, but how to ensure such attention for these children on that day. On this point, Shadow Ojala replied that one of the messages of the fellow converts of the Child Protection League letter was that the word 'children's protection' was somewhat misleading. Ojala noted that it could be considered to designate this day as Children's Day or Day of Children's Welfare. He stressed that this was all children's day. Signe Riisalo, for its part, added that the term 'child protection' stems from the international English term 'child protection' and refers to the protection of children against violence, abuse and the like. In this context, it would be more sensible to talk about the well-being of children (child welfare). During the preparation of the current Child Protection Act, a change in terminology was also considered, but the concept of child protection was maintained. Child welfare means not just protecting children from physical abuse, but, above all, ensuring the rights and well-being of children. Siim Kiisler asked what would change for Estonian citizens after the adoption of this law. At that, Signe Riisalo said that it would probably be okay if the bill was not passed as a law. However, a lot of positive things can happen if this bill is adopted as a law. The particular difference is, for example, whether or not the Estonian flag is raised on Child Welfare Day. This draft aims to change attitudes that are more tolerant and supportive of children. So that's the summary. In a procedural and consensual manner, it was decided to place the draft on the agenda on 17 March inclusive. But, as we know, this crisis has come up and, therefore, the agenda has been delayed, and today we are in the Chamber with it. More proposals were made: to finish the first reading of the draft and to appoint Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. As I said, all these decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U368	Thank you. Questions. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U369	Thank you. President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! I would just like to point out that it is the case that within seven weeks, a first reading has to be made when the draft has been submitted to the procedure. After all, seven weeks were completed at the beginning of March. On 10 March a meeting was held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, after which this draft was sent to the large hall. In the meantime, the emergency came and the body of elders decided that the large chamber of the Riigikogu only deals with the laws relating to the emergency situation. We could, of course, have protested against this, as, by law, we were right to have it dealt with, but we did not do so because there was an emergency situation and we realised that it really did not fit. I just wanted to mention it. But one more thing. After all, the draft government bill was not in the process at the moment when we discussed whether it could be added up at all. So it cannot be said that we did not agree to join the government's draft. It's just like that!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U370	Thank you! This is undoubtedly the truth, because your reference, a good colleague, is indeed the result of our Rules of Procedure Act. The truth is, the virus caused this delay. However, the Board of the Riigikogu has taken a number of decisions and in the meantime there was, one might say, a conditional softening of the so-called regime also for us, for our Riigikogu, which is why we started quietly adopting other laws. So that's where they came in. But I would like to emphasise one thing: when reading the 131 draft law, as I introduced earlier, there was indeed already talk about the government law, the law being developed by the government. It was a talk, that's what I was quoting. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U371	Thank you. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U372	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As a representative of the Coalition Party, how do you assess today's situation? If you're an outsider in this hall, how do you feel or how do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U373	Thank you very much. I should say that, on the one hand, it is a little strange indeed, indeed it is a little strange to have this conversation. But it is clear that it is not just a tantrum because of a tantrum. The political system has been created for us as it has created such a situation. But there's no way I can blame the House Party for creating this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U374	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U375	Thank you. You started with a promise that you'll be brief. I was very hopeful. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Then, as chairman of the committee, you began to philosophise on your behalf and in the end, you did what you always do, that you read a verbatim, putting in between binding words who answered, said or emphasised something. Please do not make such reports; this is not the role of the Commission representative. Make a substantive overview of the debate. It's a pain in the ass, I'll be honest. But my question. The government's opinion had been roughly that it supported the idea, but did not support it as it did. How could the government come up with such an opinion? What shape didn't like when the text tells you what to do about Child Welfare Day? After all, good practice says that if the government agrees with the idea, then sometimes it says that it can be improved. But now he says he doesn't support it in that form. What was that all about?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U376	First of all, the first part. I'm so sorry if my philosophing bullied you, my good colleague. But, in principle, as a representative of the Commission, I should nevertheless highlight what has been said here in the Commission. It is common for names to be read in the minutes, who have thought something. As far as the government's position is concerned, the government generally supports the objectives of this draft, but why, I must say that I really do not know. I myself am not part of the government and have not participated in this debate either, so it is very difficult for me to say this. I also assure you that, when we were talking about this at the committee meeting, it was equally ascetic: the government's position was set out, which consisted in the government's support for the objective, but the draft does not support it in this form. So that's who he is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U377	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U378	Thank you. Good Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! It was not the case that, at the meeting of the Commission, when the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said that the government itself had the intention of making a similar draft, I suggested that you do not bother, do not spend time on it, but make this proposal by the grandparents for one of these two drafts. We had just discussed that we could merge these drafts and propose this, so that it can be dealt with quickly. Isn't that right? The Social Ministry official replied that it was political will, as he shrugged his shoulders. Or how do you remember that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U379	That's how it was in a broad sense. I cannot say for sure that the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said exactly those words, but it sounded through multiple repetitions, on several issues. A representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs replied. Yeah, that's what the comments were.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U380	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U381	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! In response to Mr Jürgen Ligi's question, you answered that it is up to you to pass on what was being discussed in the committee session. In your long-standing introduction, you also talked about punishing children and mentioned that a little punishment was allowed. It made me very careful. Was this punishment of children also under discussion at the committee sitting on this item, or is that your personal opinion? Secondly, how much punishment is allowed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U382	Good colleague, thank you. You misunderstood. You must have heard wrong, missed a few words. I said here, or rather I quoted the words of our good colleague, Riisalo, who said that it is believed that small punishment is allowed, but it is not acceptable. Those were the words. I'm sorry I may have had a bad dictation, let's just say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U383	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U384	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You answered Mr Kallas' first question that the government is coming to us with laws, and that the government is coming to us with laws. What laws will this government then adopt, and how?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U385	This is where I wondered if I was wrong. At least my point was, in any case, that I had in mind the same government bill presented today. I don't have the guts to say exactly how I formulated it right now. In case I did it wrong, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U386	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U387	Thank you. I understood the answer to the question of Kaja Kallas that the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said that this was a political issue. Perhaps you can open up what this political part of this issue is, how is it political to make Child Protection Day the flag day, and how much did you discuss in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U388	Good colleague! As you can see, we've been here for an hour and a half discussing certain principles, how to discuss some issues, in what order, what before and after, and what color is the cat. These are all political issues. In the Commission's debate, yes, that was the phrase on political decision-making, but I assure you that we did not argue more precisely about the content of this policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U389	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, there is no third option for Peter Ernitsa. But Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U390	Thank you. Dear waitress, In addition to being chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, you are also an influential coalition politician. Now I'm asking for your personal opinion. All the crap that's been going on around this subject right now has taken on a bit of an embarrassing nature. Doesn't it seem to you that the government coalition is now falling asleep with the opportunity to show itself generous and benevolent and purpose rather than shape-oriented?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U391	You know, a lot has been said about the Chinese today. The Chinese also have a proverb that every stick has two ends. This is also the case in the present case. Yes, speaking of generosity, it can also be said that our very beloved opposition could be generous, not to call for your bill to be withdrawn, but to think that it might be possible to find positive solutions here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U392	Thank you very much, Mr. Waitress. No further questions. It is now possible to open negotiations and the representatives of the political groups will have the floor for negotiations. Siim Pohlak, representative of the EKRE, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U393	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I may be going back to the previous draft when I listened to the opposition's accusations of hijacking, writing off, copying and other sins during the debate on the government bill. I'd just say the stone should still be thrown by the one who's clean from sin. Let us think and remember when and how the practices you accused the government of actually became common practice in Estonian politics and in this Chamber. Thank you. [[A voice from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U394	Thank you. There is no further talk request. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the first reading of draft 131. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 27 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U395	We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's the tenth. Holidays and celebrations initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group... Honourable colleagues! I understand we're all extremely excited, but I'd still like to ask you to take the conversation outside the hall. Draft Act 132 amending the Holidays and Holidays Act and the Estonian Flag Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Let's start reading it first. A member of the Riigikogu Helmen Kütt is already in the chair for the presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U396	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! You have before you a draft 132, a draft law amending the Holidays and Holidays Act and the Estonian Flag Act. On 13 January, the Social Democrats launched a draft on the subject. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the motivation was why we did so on the first working day after Christmas, the appeal of 19 organisations to the five political groups of the Riigikogu on 30 December, as well as to the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. I thought it was really great that on 13 January, in addition to the Social Democrats, the Reform Party launched a similar draft. It shows that we are here in this hall to serve people. One of our co-workers on Facebook somewhat ironed that the opposition was weak and didn't do it together. I don't know if he did it the second the government came in with a bill like that, but it doesn't matter. Our bill sets out the following points. First, 1 June, Child Protection Day, included in the Holidays and Holidays Act. Paragraph 2 provides that § 6 (1) of the Estonian Flag Act should be supplemented so that on 1 June, on Children's Day, our beautiful state flags would also have been raised. With this, we celebrate it and we recognise and remember children, but not only one day a year, of course, but we particularly note on that day that children are our future, very important to us. An explanatory statement has been made on this draft. I am not going to dwell on this content for a long time because, in two points, there has already been a long discussion on this subject. So that's why we started the bill. I think an excellent draft, and I certainly hope that my colleagues will support this draft into law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U397	Thank you. Questions. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U398	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did I hear correctly that this address had been signed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and that's why there was a phrase in this hall that the letter was in its mailbox? From this I dare to conclude that it is perhaps a mistaken conclusion that this means that since the Ministry of Social Affairs and the government eventually took over the matter as if everything that happened in this Chamber of the Riigikogu or in the parliamentary debate and process did not satisfy them. Or what was the reason why you have to send yourself a letter like that? Why can't we work together?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U399	Thank you very much. For the sake of the verbatim report, please read the letter that was received on 30 December by the five political parties and the Social Affairs Committee, signed by the Estonian Substitute House Workers' Association, the Estonian Association of Open Youth Centres, the Estonian Association of Children's Educators, the Estonian Association of Children's Educators, the Estonian Association of Children's Rich Families, the Estonian Association of Youth Association, the Estonian Association of Social Work, the Estonian Association of Mental Health and Wellbeing, the Estonian Association of Students' Union, the NGO Each Child's Family, the NGO Children's Protection Association, the Estonian Family, the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Family Centre, the SEB Charity Foundation, the Social Insurance Board, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the University of Tartu Student Representation and the Free Association. So, indeed, 19 signatures were on this letter. I will be honest with you that it would have been great if the Government of the Republic had taken such an initiative on 13 January. But, unfortunately, as we all know, it came much, much later.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U400	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U401	Good manager! Good waitress! I looked at these two drafts, the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, and I heard from the previous presentation that there was supposedly a debate in the Reform Party, because some wanted children's protection day for the flag day, but it didn't get into the bill, the draft was very haiku. But what about the Social Democrats? Did you have a consensus that the flag day, or did you have an argument? Your bill is like a finer one, taller one.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U402	Thank you for this question, my dear fellow official. You are currently facing Bill 132, where there is an amendment to the Holidays and Holidays Act as well as an amendment to the Estonian Flag Act. It was initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group on 13 January. When it was initiated by the group, the consensus was complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U403	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U404	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. Does it not seem to you that it is becoming a tradition that when drafts come from opposition parties and when they are discussed, it turns out that yes, but we were either doing the same thing or we are going to do the same thing. Except these timetables are so sloppy, we can't wait to see them. Here we really must say thank you to our political parties, otherwise perhaps the government would not know what to do. Then they come with what we've already done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U405	Thank you very much for your question. I have to share the same feeling. In the committees and often when we answer questions, we hear that it is coming, it is on our tables, it is in our preparation. I think it could be a good tradition that such good things are being done together. When someone starts something, others join, add good ideas, and it's done. It could be good practice. But I very much agree with you that often, even by asking questions or giving some good ideas to the committees, we get the answer that it is coming. But the time it comes is very, very long.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U406	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U407	Thank you, good manager. A good colleague and colleague in many ways! In addition to being members of the Riigikogu, we are also social workers. My specialty has been specifically for child welfare. I am delighted that the word 'children's protection' has sounded repeatedly, repeatedly and repeatedly in this hall over the last few hours. But I'd be even better off if the word 'children's protection' sounded practically right here. Is that what you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U408	Good Signe, I can tell you that I can answer briefly. As Jürgen says, answer very briefly. Of course, I think that children need to be spoken about every day and not just one day of the year, and the flags for children, or for some occupations or grandparents, could wave more often, because we have a beautiful Estonian flag and it could very often wave. But I just want to say that we also discussed these two drafts in the Commission on 10 March. Indeed, at that table we also dared to agree on behalf of our political groups so that these drafts could be incorporated and a very good bill. Indeed, it would have made sense if, when we discussed the Commission on 5 May, it had already been possible to discuss when, within the framework of the amendments, the government would include its proposal there, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would be supplementing it so that it would have received one of these good joint draft laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U409	Thank you. No further questions. Are the representatives of the political groups... Excuse me, co-rapporteur! God, I'm getting ahead of myself. Excuse me, Mr. Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Chair is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U410	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm trying to make it shorter now so I can safely get out of this hall without Jürgen Ligi hurting me. But in short, yes, everyone here is already known, we have discussed this very much. Indeed, I too very, very much hope that we will essentially reach out to this child protection. Basically! However, this draft 132 was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 10 March, including. Here's the story: they want to do it both for the national anniversary and for the flag day. There was also the opinion of the Government of the Republic, which has already been introduced. It was similar to what I said earlier. The opinion of the Government of the Republic was given at the same time on both drafts 131 and 132. The committee was chaired by me, with all the same persons I mentioned earlier: Kalle Grünthal, Kaja Kallas, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik, Lauri Läänemets, Hanno Pevkur, Signe Riisalo. Guests were also present, and the initiator of the bill was, of course, Helmen Kütt. This was also mentioned in the Commission, something more than that. So much can be said that even then indeed Helmen Kütt spoke of two to two! The possibility of merging the draft law. Having discussed this, we made consensual decisions in the Commission. A decision was taken to place this draft on the plenary agenda in exactly the same way, at first on 17 March, and then it moved to today, 13 May, thanks to the Corona. Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was proposed to conclude the first reading of the draft and was appointed rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U411	Thank you. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U412	Good manager! Good waitress! It's like I want to know how it really was for the finals of this interesting children's and grandparents' trilogy. When ladies and gentlemen of the Reform Party and the Social Democrats submitted their drafts on 13 January and on 30 December 2019 the Child Protection Union and these other organisations submitted such a joint request, but it has previously been pointed out that this bill was already written at the Ministry of Social Affairs, and if the Ministry of Social Affairs had also signed this letter on 30 December, but this bill, the government's draft has been written by Joanna Karu, adviser to the Child Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, you have any idea when Joanna Karu started this activity with the so-called body preparation of the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U413	Good colleague, I can get even more mixed up here. If we recall exactly, the Minister said that these statements came already in June 2018, already then they started to think, quietly moving. Well, he finally got here. But as the Estonian proverb says: better late than never. So I'm glad he's here. For a bear, yeah, I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U414	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U415	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U416	Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Helmen Kütt, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U417	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! If there's anything we're happy about today, it's that we've talked a lot about the children and their day and also about the grandparents' day, about celebrating these days and raising our beautiful flag these days. On 30 December 2019 five political parties in the Riigikogu and the Social Affairs Committee received a referral from 19 organisations. As has already been said, on 13 January, two parties initiated a draft law, i.e. the Holidays and Holidays Act and a draft law amending the Estonian Flag Act. On 10 March, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed drafts initiated by two political parties. I must say that the debate was very constructive, I liked it. The questions that were asked were relevant. All we had to do was wait for the drafts to reach the grand hall of the Riigikogu and be welcomed together, and on 1 June this year the beautiful flags will be waving and celebrating child protection day for the purposes of these laws. Today, May 13th, we have three laws at first reading. For the sake of the studiogram, I just want to say that Jüri Ratas said on Monday, November 21, 2016 from this Riigikogu speaker: 'I know very well what it feels like to be told that every idea you have is wrong. [---] When the opposition initiates a constructive and constructive amendment to the law, we discuss it rather than staggeringly reject it. I'm not saying it in my mouth, I'm saying it in my heart. ' I do not know why I feel bad then in the debate on such a simple bill in this Chamber: the opposition's drafts are still not real and, if the government comes from the bill, it is right, which is supported by consensus, despite the fact that there is no world-view problem here, nor is there a political party. The children are the future of all of us, the children, I am absolutely convinced of the importance of all five political parties who sit in this Chamber and represent their voters and the entire Estonian people at all. In 2014, as Minister of Social Protection, I had the great honour of defending the amendment to the Child Protection Act in this very hall, on the basis of which the Estonian Child Protection Act was written, that children should not be physically punished, children should not be hit. This is such an important sign that was self-evident. But just like a good colleague who then worked in the Child Welfare Department at the Ministry of Social Affairs, he was a leading employee and did a great job, Signe Riisalo, who today is a good co-worker in this hall, has said it was a powerful feeling. Estonia joined the line of countries where it is written in the Child Protection Act. And when we stand here today, it is a bad feeling that we cannot discuss such laws by seeking compromise and by consensus, but that if something good has been initiated, it is not the substance that matters, but the one who initiated it. Despite the fact that the drafts were already launched on 13 January, the government has found it necessary to submit a practically similar bill on its behalf, although it could have proposed, within the deadline for the amendments, that the grandparents' day be set as the flag day. I am absolutely convinced that neither the Reform Party nor the Social Democrats would have opposed this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-05-13_U418	Thank you. There is no more wish for negotiation by the political groups, the negotiations have been concluded. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 132. It's finished. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 27 May at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. Thank you. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 6.18 p.m.
