ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U1	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the government! Let's start our three-day briefing. Checking for presence first.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U2	34 members of the Riigikogu are present, 67 are missing. The following members of the Government will take part in today's Question Time: Minister of Finance Martin Helme, Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik and Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology Raul Siem. And, as usual, first of all, the members of the previously registered Riigikogu will be able to ask the question. They will also be able to ask an additional question if they so wish and may then ask one question from the floor. Question time is two minutes and answer time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U3	The first question will be asked by Urmas Kruuse and will be answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In the spring, when the so-called crisis measures were discussed in the Riigikogu, it was also clear that there would be liquidity difficulties in rural entrepreneurship and that there would certainly be a need to find resources there. This is what the government did on the one hand, and 200 million were allocated to the Rural Promotion Foundation. In the course of these discussions, there was a very clear and acute criticism in this very Parliament that money should be divided into stages, as it is not known what range of companies with different activities are going into crisis. It would therefore make sense to quickly limit the issuance of the entire loan portfolio. The National Audit Office has also carried out a very clear audit on this point, I assume that you are already familiar with it and has indicated that, in fact, the clarity of the tasks set out in the Riigikogu has clearly been blurred through the Council of the Rural Promotion Foundation. And part of it is related to the fact that investment loans have also been granted in addition to current loans. We actually knew that there was a clear message from the European Commission that these possible aids could last a maximum of six years for the longest time. Now we know that an investment loan has been granted, with a ten-year term. And the surprise surprise, we also heard that once six-year loan agreements have been made, payment schedules have been made for 20 years. How do you, as Minister of Finance, who should actually be responsible for the state's cash flows, are satisfied with this situation? And what can you say in your defense?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U5	Thank you. I don't know that I'm supposed to protect myself. I would remind you that the Rural Development Foundation did not come up this year and did not receive the money for the first time this year. This year, we added sums due to the corona crisis. Part of these amounts were linked to the corona crisis, part of them related to the coalition's plan to promote rural and regional policy. So you have to look at them separately. I am familiar with the criticisms of the National Audit Office and I can say that the National Audit Office does not say that we have broken the law or done something fundamentally wrong, but draws attention to some inconsistencies that are perfectly understandable in a situation where quick decisions need to be made, to be quickly obtained, to say the simplest thing, to help the sectors in need. In broad terms, we have had this concern not only at the Rural Promotion Foundation, but also at KredEx, so that the resources allocated by the additional budget can move to the right target and with sufficient control to ensure that everyone is transparent and guaranteed equal treatment or access to this financing scheme. So I don't think we have to justify ourselves here. In my opinion, what we did with the additional budget was to put more crisis measures into it, as well as the equity capital of the Rural Promotion Foundation, which was able to do things that were not directly linked to the crisis, but to promote rural areas at all, I think that our government can be very proud of these decisions. It is certainly always possible to make criticism of what these allocations or individual decisions are, and we certainly take this criticism seriously. There must be supervision, ultimately it is taxpayers' money. And, of course, if there have been any violations or bad faith agreements, it must be responded to. That's the only way I can explain it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U6	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U7	Thank you. Well, if you actually translate the message of the National Audit Office into a more straightforward one, then it is that you tricked the Riigikogu out of money, which was unambiguously framed as crisis measures, as quick, accurate, targeted measures, not as any promotion in general. If you wanted to be honest, you should have written a different explanatory statement, made different press releases, different speeches in the Riigikogu. But you didn't want to. Exactly the same, you were not fair when you presented it to the 200 million Committee on Monetary Affairs when you said that the banks would first take away the seed loan. It was very clear that this was not true. Honest communication would have helped and perhaps even the Riigikogu would have agreed with you. But I am approaching a single issue that has gained much more public attention. This is because, in one sector, it was estimated that 70% of the catches remained in the field because they did not have seasonal labour due to government restrictions and bullying. Now tell me how you feel about what has been said to strawberry growers or what strawberry growers say! They're allowed compensation, but they're referring to the Helme family, who says you're not getting anything because you were critical of the government. Please tell me if they get anything, and if they do, why, and if not, why!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U8	Thank you. I would invite members of the Riigikogu not to translate the story of the National Audit Office. I think the talk of the National Audit Office is the talk of the National Audit Office itself and it does not need to be translated. You will not be able to translate Russian-language interviews, and you will panic as a result. Do not make the same mistake with the Estonian texts of the National Audit Office! It's just not necessary. And I certainly do not need to translate the texts of the National Audit Office. Your complaint is that I have misinformed the Commission and the Chamber when we dealt with the additional budget. I do not understand how I can be blamed for the fact that it is not true that it became more difficult for farms to obtain loans at the top of the crisis. At the very top of the crisis, it became much more difficult for all businesses to obtain loans, including farms. That is a fact, it cannot be argued against. That's a complete fact! The complaint that our government has been bullying farmers is now an inadequate claim. If you are suggesting that the Government of the Republic of Estonia invented a purely defiance of the corona crisis, then there is nothing to do with this from there. The government has not bullied farmers. On the contrary, I would point out that the government extended temporary foreign labour permits in Estonia by a separate law. Quickly we dealt with it here in the Riigikogu. It was a government proposal. It was a clear response to this sector in a difficult, unpredictable and unexpected situation. To call such a mitigation measure a spite is a bully, I'd say so. But it is clear that in the coronation all countries, including Estonia, restricted international movement or migration. It had nothing to do with anything. On the contrary, we granted an extension to foreign workers here, so that companies could and would have time to make the necessary restructuring in their labour policies. And I'd also say I don't know who's allowed any compensation for strawberry growers. No such requests have come from the Ministry of Rural Affairs to the government; nothing has been said about this at the official level. There is no need to confuse the failed harvest year of some individual companies with the entire sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U9	Urmas Kruuse, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister! When we talk about § 5 of the Supplementary Budget Act, it is very clear that these funds can be used in a targeted way and must be the economic difficulties caused by COVID-19 disease. The National Audit Office states very clearly and in Estonian that some of the measures implemented in the MES are difficult to explain by mitigating the consequences of the COVID. This actually means that the instruments that have been distributed are perhaps very, very, very, very, very indirectly related to some things in the future. And that is a specific reproach, there is no mention of mistranslation. As far as the bullying of strawberry growers is concerned, it is clear to the hedgehog. Today we are basically at the end of October, but the problem of strawberry growers started already in the summer when the crop was left in the field. Today they are obviously in financial difficulties, and this is directly related to COVID. I do not understand what the government or the Minister for Rural Affairs will do if, so far, no proposals have reached your table to compensate for the crisis that the government itself has created. If you refer only to a few strawberry growers, you may be partly right. The point is that there is a pretty big group of strawberry growers who, according to the country's positive signals, invested very much to have large fields. And their damage is irreparable. This has also been proven by Earth University scientists who have indicated that these losses are very serious. And that is why we are asking why you have not so far done so and why you think that the National Audit Office is speaking a story that is not for you to fill. It is very clear that it is not a targeted use of resources. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U11	Thank you. Yes, many sectors were hit by economic difficulties in Estonia, some were hit more than others, and the impact of the corona crisis on the economy is wide. We can theorize whether the connection is indirect or not. But I am absolutely not ashamed of the fact that the government also turned important money into regional policy and rural life, and directed it through the Rural Promotion Foundation, through its corona measures, also through the Ministry of Rural Affairs. If you think it's bad and wrong, congratulations! Communicate with your voters in rural areas, ask how they feel! We have nothing to be ashamed of. We helped regions beyond Tallinn, helped rural areas and there is nothing to be ashamed of. All this has been about us being hit by the corona crisis. All the difficulties in the Estonian economy are linked to the corona crisis. I am not arguing with the National Audit Office, which says that we need to explain better what this connection is. No doubt we can always do that, we can explain it better. But I do not see that by spending our money we have somehow gone far beyond the mandate that we have publicly communicated or which we have received from the Riigikogu. As far as strawberry growers are concerned, it is precisely that we have a few large companies that have had a bad year. Overall, this analysis, carried out by the Ministry of Rural Affairs, shows that the strawberry-growing sector managed this year, although the situation was difficult. We are not going to compensate for the damage suffered by individual companies. If we make up for something, we'll compensate for a sector that's in general trouble. And we can't see that right now. It's as simple as that. And indeed, it is a political dispute. I can see clearly how most businesses in the strawberry sector really adapted, managed, managed. And ultimately, every company always has its own business risk. It is not a national matter to buffer every business risk or compensate for losses. If you invest, you have to consider that you also have a business risk. Build up the business model because you can always get a less expensive workforce than Estonian employees, who are ready to work 12 to 14 hours a day, which is also taking a business risk. It may not always be possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U12	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U13	Next question, No 2: Heiki Kranich asks, he is answered by Raul Siem, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U14	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Recently, a scandal exploded in Finland. It turns out that the health records of people who were stolen years ago have been used for blackmail. For the people whose data was stolen, it is certainly a very unpleasant situation. The situation is just as unpleasant for a Finnish country that has allowed this data to be stolen. There are quite a variety of databases in Estonia that contain information that is sensitive to people in one way or another, but also information that has a security dimension. With these databases, of course, it is. They were created in their own time on the basis of the knowledge we had at the time, the problems were on the side of both the performers and the subscribers. As a result, today's databases are often cumbersome and difficult to process, and it can often be doubtful to ensure that the data are true. The example of Finland could be a warning to us, but it does not seem to be very. For years, the Estonian state has spent money on creating a so-called "State Cloud," where the data collected by the state can be kept safe. But lately, the trend is rather different. A number of public authorities have started to move towards placing data in a privately owned cloud. This does not all coincide with your own or your administrative guidance, called "Guide to the safe use of public cloud services in the public sector." Here's my two questions. Do you consider this type of activity by public authorities, where, without any procurement, private cloud services are obtained, safe for Estonia, or do you see a security risk here? And another personal question: how do you feel about yourself, would you feel if your own sensitive data, your family, your friends, were in a cloud that you do not know the rules and the encryption model of which you have no idea and cannot be controlled by either you or the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U15	Thank you for your question. Yeah, a two-part question. Indeed, such a case has taken place in Finland and we have also briefly analysed it. It must be said that Estonia's cyber security activities or such editing are carried out under the law, i.e. the Cyber Security Act. This means that, on the basis of this law, we have brought together all those companies that provide vital services in the field of cyber security, to be said in general. These are communication companies, they are 'force structures' and, of course, health service providers. As regards the Finnish case, it was a private company. We have analysed this within the framework of our own existing law. We did not identify the risk that occurred in the Finnish case. As far as databases are concerned, I do not currently have precise data, whether at all and if so, how many purchases have been made in the framework of the provision of cloud services. However, I can say that the question of the State Cloud is very firmly and seriously on the table. There are, of course, small problems, bottlenecks, but the State Cloud itself is a technological solution that facilitates the security of cloud data. At this point in time, all data controllers are largely on their own server, and it is, of course, very difficult to deal with common security requirements. Of course, I personally believe that these data, including my own data, could be all protected, safe and in the same cloud.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U16	Heiki Kranich, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U17	Thank you. Actually, I didn't get the answer to how you feel about keeping sensitive data for the state in a private cloud. If they were high in the country, it would be great. But if you ask the ministers sitting next to you how the IT departments are currently working in their field and what plans they are incubating, you will surely hear excellent ideas about how to place this data in a privately owned cloud, because it is easy and cheap. Making a cloud of state is certainly somewhat more labour-intensive, albeit safer. But the follow-up to my question is: what have you personally done or are you planning to do to ensure that these data are kept safe and that every person in Estonia can be sure that they will not travel? If we look at what the country is planning in the future, we will see that it plans to collect more and more private and other sensitive data from people. And when people are not sure that the data given to the state has been kept, this creates uncertainty throughout the country. So my question is: what have you personally already done or are you going to do in the near future? My one suggestion is that you talk to the ministers sitting next to you, listen to what the IT men in their administration are already doing and doing completely uncontrollable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U18	Thank you. Of course, I'll take that recommendation into account. I myself have been through absolutely all the IT houses, the IT houses of different ministries, and I have also met the IT house in the administration of the minister sitting next door. So in that sense, I have a picture in general. Data storage and their security issues are broadly divided into two parts in the country. One part is what I was talking about: the Cyber Security Act, one subject of which is the data provider, who is generally also a vital service provider. And on the other hand, the RIA is the State Information System Authority. The Data Protection Inspectorate is a very important institution. It is not within my jurisdiction, but the Data Protection Inspectorate also supervises and organises the protection of personal data in the country. So these are the two institutions. What have we done? What I can do is work that I can do in my administration. In our area of administration, through the RIA, we have implemented a wide range of programmes to increase cybersecurity knowledge, both in private business and among public officials. This important cybersecurity communication is ongoing at all times. In addition, the National Information System Agency is constantly monitoring national networks, especially in cyber security matters, and of course also reacting to incidents and improving all work. So on this point, I can safely say that we should not have any very serious reservations about the security of the personal data held by the state at this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U19	No further questions. I will conclude on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U20	The next question is question No 3, tabled by Heljo Pikhof and answered by Minister for Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U21	Dear Minister, Last July, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise addressed you with a letter of formal notice to bring the law on psychiatric assistance into line with the established situation. We are talking about young people under 18 years of age being able to go to a psychiatrist without parental consent. Of course, it's a rule that a minor should go to a psychiatrist appointment with a parent, but unfortunately there are too many situations where it doesn't work out. Neither the Ministry nor the Government considered it necessary to react, so the Social Democrats launched a legislative amendment last December and the first reading of the draft was in January. Since then, the EKRE's baton has been kept under the law, either under the collar or even in the Social Affairs Committee. This year, 19 teenagers who could have been helped by a specialist have taken their own lives. What are you doing to ensure that the government takes steps to end this absurd theater and that we can proceed with a constructive debate on the amendment of the law in the Riigikogu? After all, Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, has prevented your party from handling this bill in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu and, as I have already said, under the baton of the EKRE.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U22	Thank you very much for your question. Children's mental health, at all in the mental health of minors, is, of course, a very sensitive subject, a very important subject. We know that about half of mental health concerns develop from childhood. They say they appear before the age of 14. And really, let's take 2019, for example: nearly 6,000 new cases of psychiatric illness were registered in Estonia up to 19 years of age. So, in any case, the mental health situation of children is worrying. We have allocated additional resources to the ministry on the basis of various requests, be it to support children who have been effectively abused, be it to fund the telephone and the professional year of clinical psychologists, which was a positive solution in the budget for next year. All of this actually contributes indirectly or directly to improving children's mental health. When it comes to a specific amendment to the law, it is no secret that the Minister of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs as a whole support it. We also moved this proposal to the Government of the Republic, which forwarded it to Parliament. So there is really debate left at the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. I have met representatives of both EKRE and Isamaa on this subject, and we have consulted Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee on several occasions. The last time we spoke this week, we found a 'compromise' wording that would suit all parties. In any case, I dare to believe that there are no political parties in the Riigikogu who would think that the mental health of children is something of little importance or that they do not need the protection and support that can be provided to them. However, the point of dispute has been the way in which it is not right to change the law or correct to change it. But I hope that we will come to an agreement in the near future, a sensible solution, which not only in words but also actually gives children the opportunity to address a psychiatrist when their mental health demands it. What's there to deny, of course, is that for a man, and especially for a child, his home would be the safest place for his parents to support him. Unfortunately, we all know that this is not always the case. And even in cases where the parent does not act in the health of the child, it is important that the child has the right and the opportunity to seek help and get help. Today, there are different kindergarten phones where children can turn. Similarly, we can all draw attention if we see any cases of child abuse or its threat or suspicion. Then we'll have to signal it, intervene. Of course, it is also important that the health care system as a whole can support children directly, if necessary, as in other specialties, even if the parent does not necessarily see this need.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U23	Heljo Pikhof, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U24	Worse still, they want to earn political points. The game with the life and health of young people is cynical and, in fact, the whole government is in some way an accomplice here. Specialists in both the Social Affairs Committee and the press have disproved, disproved the ridiculous claims of EKRE politicians that minors, without their parents' knowledge, will then deal with gender identity issues or swallow large-scale antidepressants. We all know that doctors don't just prescribe strong drugs for minors, and they can't take these drugs without an adult's permission. I would like to give an example here. Recently, I met a young man who said he was with his mother when he was 16. He was asked if he had attempted suicide, and he told me that he was, of course, but that he didn't say in front of his mother that if he had been able to go to a psychiatrist alone, he would have told me that problem. I'm afraid that's true. I very much hope that you will come out of the EKRE hostage once and will not be all co-responsible in the government for leaving this issue unsolved. My question is: do you think that young people want to go to a psychiatrist just to change their identity? As we know, it's out of the question until you're 18 years old.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U25	Thank you for the clarification. I can speak primarily for myself, but I dare to assume once again that there are no Members in Parliament who think that the main reason children want to turn to a psychiatrist is to seek help in the event of mental health problems, and that this idea is absurd. That's what we all get. Of course, children have real problems, children have real problems, mental health issues, of course. Similarly, physical health issues do not begin when we grow older. It's not like you'll be healthy for 18 years, and after that, you'll get worries sometime. They can also develop from a small head. At a young age, it is a school religion, it is domestic violence, it is all mental health concerns. Often these may be congenital problems. So there is a great deal of possible diagnosis and the need for help is very, very high. Of course, it is the role and responsibility of the health and social sectors to provide support. When asked what we have done, I referred earlier to some concrete examples. As a very positive example, I am bringing out the children's help phone. For example, there have been 9325 visits in 2019. Of these, 4264 have been children, or nearly half of them have been children. Of course, mental health concerns also relate to cases of violence or other abuse in the family. There may also be similar worrying situations among friends or other acquaintances, self - injury, and often suicidal thoughts or desires. These are all real problems, and they must not be reduced in any way; they must not be labeled as any other concern and hidden away. I very much hope, as I have already said, that coalition parties in Parliament will find the appropriate wording for all parties involved and that the amendment of this law, which the Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out, will still receive the support of Parliament as a whole and we will be able to offer even better support to children in the mental health area, which they will no doubt need more and more in the coming years. This may be due to the impact of the COVID-19 crisis, as well as to the wider increase in mental health concerns, which we see not only in Estonia but also in many other parts of Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U26	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U27	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, It is a good thing to hear very correct words, but you could read, for example, the minutes of yesterday's sitting of the Committee on Social Affairs. It was still extremely embarrassing when we discussed this law on psychiatric assistance and Mrs Kleinberg, who is the head of the mental health centre for children, had to say that she had time to use other things than to talk repeatedly and repeatedly in the Social Committee about the most basic truths. Repeatedly! It was so embarrassing to be there, Minister. After all, you are also responsible for the fact that for almost a year we process the law on psychiatric assistance by referring to pseudo-problems. And we have 14 minor suicides today. You're talking about a kindergarten phone with over 9,000 calls. The helpline asked for EUR 160000 extra money, because the number of visits has really increased over the years. They didn't get that money. My question is about the EUR 600000 that the government allocated to use as a one-off sum to alleviate mental health problems. Has the distribution been decided for today? For example, does the children's helpline receive EUR 165000 extra money there? Will the children's house come to Läänemaa with this money? Or what are your plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U28	Thank you very much for the clarification. I have not had the honour of attending the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on this subject, at least not in the near future, so I do not know exactly what took place in this debate. As far as this supplement to mental health is concerned, as usual, there are at least two or three applications for each euro, and in this case too. I am not going to say a certain amount of money here that the children's help phone will receive, but I promise you that the kindergarten phone will become part of this money, perhaps because the number of calls has really increased. It is not at all possible to argue with statistics here. And certainly this volume of appeals may increase further in the coming years, as I have pointed out, it will then be linked to the COVID-19 crisis or any other mental health concerns. Unfortunately, we are also likely to see an increase in the number of conflicts within the family due to the rise in unemployment, either on verbal soil or, at worst, physically. Well, they're both bad. So in this view, you definitely have to put extra money in it. I am therefore pleased that the government, however, provided for this EUR 600000 as an additional resource for mental health concerns, as well as funding of EUR 400000 for the professional year of clinical psychologists. During the first wave of COVID-19, the social sector also received additional funding for both psychosocial crisis relief and victim support. Clearly, it was essential to support people. So these final numbers will be in place in the near future. We talked about this in the Ministry just today. At the beginning of the week, we promised the chancellor and the vice Chancellors of the field to set the times once and for all. As I have pointed out, the places that need extra money are, unfortunately, more than this EUR 600000 allows. And this money can, unfortunately, be distributed in such a way that only once in every place, because it is a one-off decision at the moment. Therefore, we must also look at what will happen in 2022 and beyond if this 'coverage' does not come. But, of course, we will also look at the European Union's resources in the best possible way. We have submitted requests for the sake of people's mental health, food aid and social needs at all. They are actually growing as a result of the crisis. We are not just talking about maintaining today's level, but we are talking about the fact that, as volumes and needs increase, we need to allocate extra money to it. Of course, I am counting here on understanding the members of the government and good cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U29	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U30	Next question, order number four. It will be presented by Toomas Kivimägi and will be answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U31	Dear Martin Helme! My question is to you as Prime Minister and Head of the EKRE. Today, and many believe not only today, these two occupations have come together within you. EKRE has given the impression that he is an ardent fighter against corruption. In order to check whether this is merely an impression or a reality, I would like your assessment of the preferential loan granted to Porto Franco. Should the state intervene at all, in fact, should we ask whether we have a crisis in apartment development, whether we have a crisis in the construction of shopping centres or a market failure? I don't think so. The granting of 40 million to Porto Franco is justified by the request of the EBRD, as one of the financiers, to mitigate risks. At the same time, shareholders are required to contribute somewhat more in the initial phase of construction. Well, this might make sense. But let us put aside Mr Hillar Teder's donations to the Centre Party: EUR 30000 on 1 July 2020, then the Government of the Republic decided to grant Porto Franco a loan of 40 million on 30 July, and little, ten days after the Government's decision, Mr Teder donated another EUR 30000 to the Centre Party, then a total of EUR 60000. Do you believe this is a coincidence? And is this the new normality that the EKRE has given its blessing to?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U32	Thank you. Well, I should call on modesty now. The Reform Party really likes to make it look like we're in some kind of mess who's in charge or who's really the Prime Minister. There's no confusion here. I have no desire to do any work other than what I have. This work is the work of the Minister of Finance. I am happy to do so, and I have no need or desire to get more worries or any other work. In addition, I am, of course, the chairman of a party, which is also a time-consuming job. In addition to that, I really have no desire to do any other work. There's gonna be another election, new jobs. But it never occurred to anyone in the current government to ask if we have any other coast than we do. We have Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and he runs the government well. I'm the acting Prime Minister here today because Jüri Ratas is on a foreign mission in France. And as the Rules of Procedure prescribe, that's what I'm here for today. But from Porto Franco. I have, of course, already explained this several times at a government press conference. Of course, I'm ready to talk again. The question of the crisis. Where is the crisis or what is the crisis? We have two crises since spring. One is the labour market crisis, against which the government has taken a number of different measures. One of them was a measure to support the job market of the unemployment fund, which was undoubtedly very right, very good and which helped a very large number of businesses. As a result, unemployment in Estonia remained much lower during the crisis, and it is still much lower than predicted in spring or when it is seen in other countries where similar measures have not been implemented so effectively. Secondly, we have clearly had a general market failure, or one can say, a crisis in crediting or banking. We have already talked about the previous question concerning the MES. In the context of the corona crisis, there has been a clear market failure in the provision of loans, the disbursement of loans already agreed earlier, the further financing of projects already launched earlier. And on this issue, I think the government did the right thing, ensuring that jobs are maintained and ensuring that one large property object remains, supporting it with a loan. I will certainly come to this randomness, or the link, on the next question. But in short, my attitude has been that too little will be given out of the loan. Should give more, there wouldn't be any questions as to why one didn't get and why the other didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U33	Toomas Kivimägi, more specific question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U34	Thank you. It's been a long time since I met such a modest Martin Helme. You don't have any reason to be ashamed of yourself today because you are in charge of the Prime Minister. Tonight, anyway, these two jobs have come together in you. I am, of course, sorry that you did not answer the fundamental question at all. Is the donation to the Centre Party 30,000 before the loan was granted and 30,000 after the loan was granted an accident, or is it a new normality? Martin, I beg you to listen! Is this the new normality that this is how money gets: you have to donate first and then you get a loan, and then you have to donate again? And then everything's fine. Has the EKRE given it its blessing? In fact, this is also unequal treatment. Six major real estate developers in Estonia, including Arco Vara, FM Capital and East Capital, actually consider this loan to be an unfair competitive advantage and have turned to the European Commission with this concern. For example, the representative of Arco Vara has rattled out that this actually means about 14 million wins for the developer, since, in normal circumstances, this loan should pay an interest of around EUR 19 million during this period, in this case it is limited to only 5 million. To make the context a little wider: the same amount of EUR 40 million, the EUR 45 million you gave to Porto Franco, the entire tourism sector needs to survive this winter. The tourism sector's share of GDP was, or at least its potential, close to 8%. 8% is their potential! Porto Franco's share of GDP is of magnitude, not to say even more: 0.0% with nothing. To Porto Franco, you found 40 million, but to the entire tourism sector, which contributes 8% to GDP, you will not find that money. I quote Taavi Asa: "Some additional loans or subsidies to the tourism sector are not planned by the government and not all survive the crisis. " Do you admit that there is something wrong with the picture? Whoever produces 8% of GDP, you will not find 40 million for them, but for whoever contributes 0.0 to GDP, you will find generously EUR 40 million. What if there's a connection between this donation and the separation of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U35	Thank you. Don't confuse the sector and one project. The contribution of the tourism sector is yes around 7%, which varies from one year to another, depending on the level of GDP. But the construction sector is undoubtedly bigger than one company or project there. We still look more broadly not at one company or one project, but at the whole sector. Of course, as I said at the end of my reply to the previous question, my view is that more should be given credit, more should be given to the economy with these loans. And, of course, in a crisis like the one we are, loans are cheaper and must be cheaper. By doing so, we are essentially directing the market towards ensuring that interest is not murderous. These interest rates aren't normal. Okay, much depends on the risk-and-equity of the project and all other things, but if in normal circumstances interest rates are 4 and 5%, even 7 to 8 is a very high percentage. In the first half of this year, also in the summer, percentages were asked, which were 17 to 18, and this is not normal. To say that you should go to the market with such a percentage of credit that this is what the market economy is against, we did the KredEx and the MES loan measures. Against it! This is not a normal lending environment. In such a situation, the companies and the same projects will in fact be placed at the rate of bankruptcy. Now for the donations. No, I can't see inside other people's heads, which is their motivation. I can't comment on whether they make donations on a world-view basis or for preferential treatment or something else. It's clear that when you get a $40 million loan, you don't have an impact on your decisions with a $60,000 donation. At least I don't think it's real. I don't think it's real. Rather, it seems to me from Teder's donations that his grants are not aimed at his projects or at one or another's outlook, but he likes to support political parties in government and, in particular, the party of the Prime Minister. It is a pattern that comes out of previous years: donations have been made from a wall to a wall to almost all parties except our party. And I'm not jealous about that. If you ask whether there may be a connection between the donation and the allocation of money, I say that this allocation was presented to us by the KredEx Council. KredEx is subject to Raul Siem, and we took it to the government, and we were not affected by the donation to anyone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U36	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You're still too modest. I happened to look at this legendary press conference, where three party presidents thought that the Constitution could certainly be made clearer and stronger when they signed some extracts. The sign was also that when this press conference started, you wanted to sit bitterly on the Prime Minister's chair, but then you realized that this place wasn't yours. Maybe it'll take a while. But another thing I'm absolutely not happy with. In your previous reply to me, you referred to the fact that you are not interested in the concerns of an individual company. We were talking about strawberry growing, and I'm more interested in the sector's concern. But what you're defending is, in fact, the interest of an individual entrepreneur. In fact, there must be a genius to come up with the idea of supporting real estate development in the centre of Tallinn. Even in the worst scenarios regarding the value of real estate, the sustainability of this area, the city centre of Tallinn is the last place in which support should be provided. Speaking of which, you never mentioned that it was a risk for the company itself to undertake such a development and to borrow under such conditions. You also understand very well that things must also look transparent. Some local government leaders have been placed on the plate even before they thought of such thoughts in their minds. But if there are such things that there will be a donation first, then a decision and then a donation again, then the criminal police have acted very quickly. And the question arises as to why he's not doing it now. But you also remember that the National Audit Office said that this division is opaque and opaque because the direction was changed. Today, the money is actually gone, and one reason is that money was distributed very quickly as if to the whole sector, and therefore, for example, the road construction company received money. Do you think that's reasonable? Is this something to do with this crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U38	I do not see any contradiction in my earlier and current response. I have just said that I believe that there should be much more and much more support than just one company. In that case, the question of why one company did and the others had not yet been received would disappear. It is true, of course, that there are not so many large projects in Estonia, I mean, so large projects in progress. Well, it's been a while, hasn't it, Patarei? In my opinion, support for this could be very seriously considered in the same way. And I don't see why we should be ashamed of it. If we want in the current economic situation, which is extremely uncertain, where banks grant loans with very high interest rates and very harsh other conditions, or do not grant loans, keep the Estonian economy running, also the construction sector running, if we want to keep employment, then I do not see a problem there at all. In my opinion, lending should be much wider than it has been so far. In this sense, I do not see a contradiction with my other words. After all, the grants have gone not only to Tallinn through KredEx, on the contrary, the KredEx grants have gone largely outside Tallinn. These are the insulations of buildings, subsidies for apartment buildings, demolition subsidies for rural areas. There's a lot of these things. What has to be said is that when it has been attempted here to give the impression that these conditions were adjusted to meet a specific firm, these conditions began to be defined as soon as, in April, the budget was first adopted and, subsequently, regulations were drawn up. Then these conditions began to be worked out immediately. And it is also true that these conditions had to be re-examined and re-examined on several occasions because they did not work. After all, the Riigikogu makes no sense to allocate EUR 1.3 billion, which cannot be issued because the conditions are so harsh. It's not rational. If, under the conditions, no one can actually get the money that we have been thinking about economic recovery, then the conditions must be changed. It's basic flexibility and common sense. If we ask why there's no criminal investigation, frankly, how do you know you're not? I don't know if it is or not. If they see anything suspicious, they'll investigate, and if they don't, they won't. They must be controlling these things. But if we haven't heard anything, or if nothing has been made public, I assume they've checked and found nothing. As for the fact that the money is gone, I understand that the reference was not to KredEx, but to the MES. In my opinion, the argument that the money ran out quickly only confirms the real need for credit in this area. In the case of MES money, we're not talking about any non-refundable money, we're talking about loan measures. So there was a huge hunger in this sector. Individual cases, like this road construction company, I can't comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U39	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U40	Next question, order number five. Asks Urve Tiidus to be answered by Raul Siem, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Raul Siem, Minister for Foreign Trade and Information Technology, Sounds somewhat cynical, but humankind has always benefited from crises. I am thinking of the benefits that the crisis offers the will, energy and skills to better organise life. The COVID-19 pandemic brought to our consciousness in a short period of time a theoretically well - known truth in a completely practical way. Yes, the whole world is very connected. Yes, technology keeps us united even when physical isolation is a crucial condition for preventing infection. Yes, our country's earlier technological development provided a relatively good platform for teleworking, on-line teaching, for the functioning of e-services and for launching new solutions during the crisis. In short, it became clear to the sceptics that a digitalised and online world is as important as pure air, as educational ideas and investments, etc. Unfortunately, for the last seven months, the inequality that arises from studying on-line and teleworking was also eloquently demonstrated. Maybe it's more obvious than before. Not everywhere in Estonia is a modern fast internet accessible and self-evident technological benefit. As the number of teleworking workers in Estonia has increased objectively, not only because of the health crisis, national immigration becomes one of the most important arguments as to whether to settle with the family outside Tallinn and Harjumaa, whether teleworking is possible in this place. And we can't talk about regional harmony yet. That is why you have a historic opportunity, Mr Siem, to increase equality in this area. Please explain in the context of next year's budget, in the context of the European Union's finances and crisis grants and cooperation with local authorities, what you are doing to this end. If it is possible specifically, I am very happy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U42	Thank you for your question. Yes, indeed, in the COVID crisis situation, we have been relatively successful compared to the rest of the world. We have received our work and work done primarily thanks to the functioning of Internet connections, thanks to good network connections. At the same time, it is right that we have regions in Estonia that are not equally equipped with functional connections. Internet connections have been dealt with for quite a long time, and we are now continuing this path. Within the framework of the crisis measures, we have received direct support for bringing to final consumers, plus funding for infrastructure building, a total of EUR 15 million. There will be another EUR 10 million next year. So now the situation is that with the money we have, we will be able to take the Internet, i.e. to realise the first 15 million by the end of the first quarter of next year. Then we can continue to do so. Orientatively, it is estimated that we have also calculated here that the construction of the infrastructure could cost 100 million euros for the whole of Estonia. On the one hand, it is a monetary issue, on the other hand, it is a question of whether we can and if we can, of what time to absorb the EUR 100 million. This means how much we have the capacity to build these nets physically. So there's a lot of different questions. But yes, in answer to the question, I assure you that next year we will continue to do so and that we will also have the means to achieve the objective of this action.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U43	Urve Tiidus, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U44	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The most recent information was that the supply of the so-called fast Internet in Estonia costs 100 million euros. Doesn't seem like a lot of money, does it? I understand that there is also a practical side to it, but I would like to ask that there have been a number of studies in Estonia that reflect the demand for high-speed internet connections. This demand and need is still very high, as the nature of the work has changed and will change further in the long term. The regional balance, which I mentioned in the first question, is very important, because expectations of teleworking anywhere in the world are only growing. We know that it is costly to build the necessary infrastructure, and this is particularly costly in scattered areas. This is why some of the newest municipalities have contributed or are willing to contribute themselves. My second question is about islands, where all kinds of connections are even more important than in the large centres of the continent. What future do you predict for those places where hundreds of thousands of people do not live under densely populated conditions? Young people living in villages develop software for a company on the other side of the world, and such young people are growing. Perhaps you can also give some concrete examples that would give people hope or confidence that such a job will be possible if they have an idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U45	Thank you for the additional question. So, unfortunately, he really is that these funds... One thing really is money, and the other one is the ability to release it into an application. Yes, there is a considerable amount of this white area in Estonia, including the islands and other places that you have referred to, where people do not really live very much and where there is scattered settlement. But on the basis of this balanced development, we should, of course, be able to cover these areas or these regions as well. The question is, when can we do it? All places at once, all of Estonia we cannot cover. We'll have to make decisions when we get somewhere. That's what we do. And we're also constantly dealing with the fact that we're mapping out where we're best able to move in the most efficient way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U46	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The 100 million you mentioned, indeed, in view of the amount of money we have allocated because of the corona virus, actually seems to be a drop in the sea. At the same time, all the members of the government are talking about how successful we were because we already had certain solutions to do teleworking, contactless work, etc. The budget for next year is like 15 million, but you also referred to the problem of whether we can realise it on a larger scale. You were probably thinking about the ability of companies to distribute this investment. But I didn't notice in the budget strategy the plan for the next few years. What am I saying? That, if we give companies a signal that the government will put 25 million in there over the next four years, for example, then we can get it 100 million full, then they can also grow their capabilities and be re-specialised in the labour market. And that is why I want to ask why this area is not in the budget strategy. And second, have you been able to get an audit on this? We know that on this last mile project, I don't understand why this last mile project couldn't be different developers. Can these passages, together with the money from this country, be brought together in such a way that citizens are not caught by gears, so that for one reason or another, they still cannot connect, even though there are almost ready solutions somewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U48	Thank you for your question. Yes, this is not what the country's budget strategy now states, but we are working very clearly on different development plans. So the question is broader. How do we develop? We must also look at these developments and progress in a complex way in the regional dimension. We cannot approach ourselves in such a way that we look at either entrepreneurship or internet access, or the existence of social services or housing. We cannot deal with them separately; we must look at all development in a complex way. The absence of one may interfere with the functioning of the entire remaining chain. And we are working on this subject constantly and continuously. I do not see any such stand-alone emphasis here that we should now necessarily be able to build the Internet everywhere. We need to look at the wider picture, the whole scope, how we can attract people to the so-called empty land or the uninhabited area and create more settlements. We have the ability to create it, but it has to be done in a complex way. Individual measures may not be effective. So I think we're running all the time trying to make these developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U50	Question 6: Helmen Kütt submits and answers Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U51	Thank you very much. Professor of Virology Irja Lutsar has said in today's article that the situation is very delicate, we walk like a sword, while there are poison snakes on both sides, and we must not fall on either side. You have said in the same article that if the people, authorities and companies of Estonia continue to act very responsibly, it is possible to prevent a large wave of infection. All these are very golden words. It's almost November. I understand it's taken some time from the government to get in between the fights and the reconciliations, the cake and the walrus parties. But when will it be possible to find out about those people who work on a very low salary and want to stay home responsibly in case of illness, but their income would flow away from it? You're not discussing this until tomorrow in the government. Whether an agreement will be reached tomorrow or not, we do not know yet. But people are actually waiting for a clear signal. Staying at home is the only solution. After all, we can see that the infected areas of work collectives are now in very many places already taking power, and we have 125 hurts. When, Minister, will this message come?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U52	Thank you very much for your question. Let's start with this article. In fact, Professor Lutsar and I had a relatively similar conversation there, without prior agreement. This shows that we have a similar understanding of the situation we are in and where we can reach. Today's number, I think, is a reminder to everyone that the virus has not disappeared. Estonia is not an island that will remain untouched if the rest of the world fights the virus. As regards the reimbursement of sick days, indeed, there have actually been several meetings. You said it wasn't until tomorrow that the government would discuss it. In fact, the government has discussed the matter repeatedly. I think the first time was in August, I hope I'm not wrong. In September-October, we have also held tripartite meetings with employers and trade unions. It has also been necessary to reach an agreement with them. The last of them took place not at the Ministry of Social Affairs, but already at the Stenbock house on Monday this week. There were trade unions, employers, prime minister and some other members of the government, and we also discussed the sickness days system. Employers there confirmed that when we talk about this option on the table, according to which employers will compensate for sick days from day two to day five, from day six to health insurance and one day will remain the person's own responsibility, they agree in principle, but during a certain "test period." The point was that in one or two years we will review the results: how much costs have increased, how many additional abuses have arisen. The main concern of employers has indeed been not only in the current debate, but also in the past that, if compensated from day one, there is a risk of incorrect use of the sick list. It's not for health, it's for any other reason. This is an extra burden and additional problem for the employer, especially if there is shift work or at the very last minute it becomes clear that, for example, in a particular service institution or unit, some people do not come to work in the morning. That is a self-evident concern. From the employer's point of view, of course, continuity is important. But I confirmed at this meeting to both employers and trade unions, and here too, I assure you that it is in fact in the interests of all parties to early compensation for sick days, to leave people at home early. It is also clearly the employer's interest that a person does not come to work with an infectious disease or any other disease. We are talking now in the context of the COVID-19. Personally, I am consistently in favour of a sustainable and continuing change that will lead to compensation in the past. It is a pity that for 11 years there has been a system where the first three days are the person's own responsibility, the employer will pay five days and the sickness fund will continue. I think it needs to be reviewed, it needs to be changed. I very much hope that tomorrow the government will make that decision. For the second time, I have provided both the necessary calculations and possible alternatives for all members of the Cabinet for tomorrow's debate. According to the Prime Minister's proposal submitted yesterday, this issue will be on the agenda tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U53	Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U54	Thank you very much, Minister, for that answer. Well, perhaps discussions could have started earlier, for example, in August. We all knew the fall was coming and a new wave was coming. We all knew that, it wasn't some kind of unexpected thing that, oh, in Europe, the corona virus is back on its head. My second question concerns testing. We all see that the number of weekend tests is low. For example, on Sunday, against Monday, I said head-to-head numbers and I might be wrong, but the order of magnitude is right at 640 tests and 17 of them were ill, they detected this virus. The Health Board gave an overview of the work being done in the Committee on Social Affairs and the Health Board must undoubtedly be recognised. Corona virus experts and people who do good surveillance work are very good, people are kept informed when they have been infected in the area. They're doing a really good job. Likely, we all received a letter in the e - mail box, where the Health Board urges people to be careful, reminds us of washing hands and staying at home sick, calling a family doctor or a family doctor. But there's a sentence missing. The Health Board promised to correct this error and to add information to it that if it is not possible to obtain a referral from a family doctor for testing on the weekends, it can be obtained from the same family doctor's information line. Perhaps fewer testers have been present on weekends because it has not been possible to receive a referral. Maybe you'll open up a little bit of what you, as Minister of Social Affairs, are still planning to present to the government, or what are these activities in relation to coronavir, what else are you planning to do? The Health Board must be commended for what they do, but really, not all Estonian people have computers and e-mails. But it's still a good thing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U55	Thank you very much for your question. If you allowed yourself a remark of the end of my previous answer, I will allow myself to state that I think that the debate on the sick list should not have started now, it should have started 11 years ago or at the latest ten years ago when the economic crisis was over. Such a temporary solution, which took place in 2009, lasted for 11 years. The different viruses have been moving all the time, these flu epidemics, they are larger, smaller spread, outbreaks, they are staying at home for any other health reason. And let's be honest, 12 years before me, representatives of the Reform Party and Social Democrats have been at the head of the Ministry of Social Affairs. In this view, everyone has to look a little bit in the mirror. However, I agree that this debate must still be opened and these changes must be made, because the reason is much more pressing than before. However, this does not mean that there was no need for it before. However, I come to your question: what else are we going to do? I guess we actually do all these things every week, working with the Health Board. We meet repeatedly, I think, on average three or four times a week, either at the government table, at the Ministry of Social Affairs or at the Health Board, to discuss possible additional steps. We have made testing arrangements more efficient, we have expanded the range of options compared to spring. The same family doctor's referral line, which was previously sent to emergency clinics, can now be delivered directly. Similarly, we are ready to launch emergency clinics on weekends when we see that the situation demands it. The question here is the rational use of the resource. We do not want to overwhelm the entire healthcare system too soon. We know that this time we may not have to cope for two months. Maybe it takes six months, maybe a year, maybe more. There is also a need to preserve health resources, the most valuable of which are people. I believe you agree that they must be kept as reasonable as possible in order to avoid burnout, overload, disease and other similar risks. As far as additional activities are concerned, we are currently discussing, in the government, for example, the allocation of additional funds to hospitals. We have made concrete proposals. In spring, the grant was granted in the order of EUR 213 million; it took a little less than half of it, for some 96 million for various additional activities, such as the construction of COVID departments and the cost of work. This time these calculations are much more modest. Certain costs we have already included in the Health Insurance Fund's price list, such as the additional acquisition of personal protective equipment in the COVID-19 situation, for both ambulances and hospitals. Similarly, extending the possibility of remote receptions: this is now not only possible during an emergency, but also under normal circumstances. We have requested a great deal of additional money from the European Union and, in part, from the state budget. For example, in order to strengthen the Health Board, I will say 2.6 million euros in the state budget for 2021. There is also some additional money for other health-related activities, whether it is to provide health staff, whether it is to increase testing with the support of European Union funds or to control infections in nursing homes that we are doing from spring onwards. There's a lot of action. I'm running out of time right now, so I can come up with a longer list sometime.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U56	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! In the meantime, you already got rid of the rhetoric that the devil is in the Reform Party, but now I think we need to remind you that you are a government division for almost the fourth year now, who could be responsible and should be held accountable. But I'm sure day-to-day monitoring of the corona virus is very important, and that's why I have a request for you. The Minister of Finance, who is in charge of the Prime Minister today, explained the non-acceptance of additional labour to seasonal work on the very corona issues. At the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs on 2 June, you referred to the fact that if the Minister for Rural Affairs had, at a time when there was a lower illness in Ukraine, came and proposed, there would certainly not have been so many health arguments and perhaps the concerns of strawberry growers would have been less. But my question relates to tourism and the movement of goods. Certainly, the tourism sector is the sector that is in the most difficult situation, because their ability to attrate is very difficult in these circumstances. Have you discussed in Europe that so-called direct flights should be a priori clearly controlled? This is to reduce the risks so that there are no more fluctuations. Could they be treated in the same way as charter flights? And we remember the action where different papers had to be filled out at border control. How many forms have the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Board used that were executed on the border? And right now, surprise-surprise! Our guests at the airport and at the port have to deal with paperwork, although IT solutions should be developed at lightning speed for such moments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U58	Thank you for your question. Well, there were at least three or four questions here, so I'm just gonna keep trying to answer. So let's start with this historical retraction of who's been in the government. This government has solved a lot of issues, it is compensation grants in the area of pay, it is providing additional healthcare funding for the next four years. During the previous government, too, there were extra funds. The point is that it is not worth trying to give the impression that problems in this area have arisen now and now in connection with the COVID. These have been long-term issues that we have had to deal with very much. The issue of funding the sector, the issue of reimbursement of sick days, these are not problems that have arisen today. But, of course, I'll deal with them, and I'll be happy to. As far as Ukraine is concerned, the Ukrainian figure is now about four times higher than in Estonia. Really, in the summer it was lower. Then there was another situation, and the spread of the virus is changing very quickly, and if necessary, decisions must be made. We have done so many times, and we have also seen other countries making their decisions around these different traffic lights systems in Finland, these are agreements with the ECDC at EU level. This is the situation in order to say today what the situation is in the Baltic States, Ukraine, Central Europe, in a month's time, is practically impossible. Anyone who wants can try to set up, write down numbers, and then watch when they're right. But I think it's a relatively ungrateful job. As for the fact that you referred to border controls here, filling out these forms of paperwork was then and is really necessary today to get any information about how many people are moving, for what reasons they are moving, whether they have symptoms. In a sense, it has certainly also been a question of responsibility, a question of discipline. If a person had to actually fill out the form, enter the data, then he may have wondered more about his moves, including whether he really needed to cross the border at that particular moment. There is nothing to do, travel is associated with an increased risk of coronavirus. It is not to be ignored, whether it is to travel for work or to travel as a tourist. In any case, the virus safety requirements must be complied with. Rather, it is only right to travel when necessary and otherwise avoid travel. If necessary, a test must be carried out in Estonia, which is possible at airports, ports and border crossing points. The fact that at airports the PBA has indeed collected forms in paper form is due to the fact that the development of databases has taken place. Unfortunately, making these databases never goes as fast as we would like. After all, they must be operational and safely covered in accordance with the logic of the legal space, as promised in the judicial space. It may take years to develop a larger information system. During the crisis, we have repeatedly created different databases, information solutions in a matter of urgency, in a few months. But it wasn't necessarily possible to do everything as fast as you wanted. However, I know that these developments will be operational and will soon be operational. So we are moving more and more to the digital state, as our image requires. But in these databases, data protection issues are also very much at stake: what can be collected, collected, stored, shared, etc. So it's not so easy that we're going to make a database, and we're going to input data into it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U59	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U60	The next question is number seven. It is presented by Mart Võrguship and is answered by Raul Siem, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I ask about the installation of Omniva parcel terminals and do so in the example of you and my municipality of residence, Rae parish, Vaida village. In my opinion, parcel terminals, just as the broadband solutions mentioned above are important parts of the infrastructure. They certainly promote life in the countryside, provide additional opportunities for people to order goods, send them, do business, live a natural and normal life, even in times of crisis. At the end of 2018, Omnival had a major campaign in which they also mapped the wishes of parcel terminals using digital solutions, and as far as I know, the interest was insane. Similarly, the interest was great already mentioned in Vaida's village. I've been an elder in Rae parish for a long time, and I've been dealing with this problem. We kept bumping into the fact that it was not possible to install a parcel terminal there for some reason. According to the latest information that has come to me, in 2020 it was as if Omniva had never provided the means to install parcel terminals in small deposits across Estonia. It's like there's no money. At the same time, it is, as far as I know, one of the most profitable or one of the profitable business lines in Omnival. Please explain the logic of Omnival. Why aren't they installing parcel terminals? Why can't they be put up mass, especially in crisis situations? Cleveron here offered his solutions. And what are you gonna do about it? Will parcel terminals finally reach small settlements, including Vaita, where there are 1000 inhabitants?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U62	Thank you, good questioner! It can be said that at this point I am not substantially aware of the circumstances or reasons for which some processes have progressed in this way or in which circumstances they have stopped. I can say that the Estonian Post now has a new council and I have met this new council several times. We have set out the courses of action on how we go forward and where we want to go. And I can say that, very clearly, the priority is that our postal network is not being built for quantitative reasons, but for qualitative reasons. So, where it's needed, we put a parcel machine or a mail machine. Both these activities, of course, require money. We are actively working on finding this money now, thinking about how to involve investment in it. We have planned to install nearly 1000 parcel terminals in rural areas in 2021 and 2022. This means that if today we have some 250-300-300-something about the parcel terminal, then there will be a significant addition in the future. And I very much believe that the village of Vaida you referred to will also have a parcel machine. And so are many others.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U63	Mart Networker, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U64	Thank you. I am glad to hear that this issue is still being addressed. For the postal network, I dare to assume that the installation of parcel terminals would also solve the problem of the fact that the network of postal points has been heavily tangled. This is a clear alternative to still provide the service on site. But here's my question. You said you didn't have any information today about why things have been stopped. Can you maybe pass on this information later, and the same way about the exact investment plan? Has it already been confirmed at the Council level that there will be more of these parcel terminals in the next two years, and there will be money for that? Or is that just a wish?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U65	Yes, this information I can send separately, there are no obstacles. I just want to say, as a comment or a reply, that if we have the impression that we are going to replace post offices with parcel terminals, the impression is wrong. We have no plan to replace post offices with parcel terminals. Our aim is to improve quality, so that people in rural areas can also consume quality postal services. That's the goal, and that's where we're going. So we combine different options for providing services, but we combine these different options in such a way that it enhances quality rather than doing this process for our own sake. But this is the data I'm sending.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U66	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! There is always reason to talk about the quality of service. I hope I'm not mistaken, but I heard an interview a few days ago describing the possible sending of a greeting card. There were a few keywords that made me nervous. The first was that if you want to send a card at a cheaper price, which is clearly more expensive than today, it will arrive when you don't know. But the other option is that you're gonna pay a lot more and then maybe you'll get the card in a week. Maybe you can explain what strategy this is? We're talking about quality today, but people are already discussing that if I want to send someone a birthday card, I don't know if it'll be there a week before my birthday, for example, if I have to send this card a week or a month before my birthday. It actually shows that there's a communication problem somewhere. Question two. I understand that you promised to answer the question of Mr. Gridship in writing, but perhaps with a few sentences, what is the strategy anyway? Is it a post office versus a post office or a parcel machine? Are there any criteria you're referring to? Can a service be of high quality in itself, but consumers may be very few for this service, or is it also a quality indicator for you that consumers are very few, which means that it is more reasonable to replace it with another service?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U68	Totally agree with you: of course, quality alone is not an indicator. The question is that the consumer must be back there, there must also be a clear demand for the service. That's for sure! We are working on solutions, and there are initial visions in this regard. It's like we're really working on it. As far as individual cases are concerned, I can really describe the individual cases myself. Unfortunately, I'm not familiar with the case you've described. But there are still individual cases that are not satisfied with the postal service and its quality simply because it is not available. It is not available to a person even in a situation where a post office is completely within reach, but it is unfortunately stuck while people want this service. So there are a number of concerns that we are solving. And the goal we want to reach is that good quality also reaches consumers when there are consumers in a given region. So that's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U69	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U70	Next is question No 8, tabled by Vilja Toomas and answered by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U71	Thank you! Good minister! The Estonian Association of Hospitals, the Estonian Association of Ambulances, the Estonian Association of Family Doctors and the Estonian Association of Nurses began negotiations this summer on the conclusion of a collective agreement on the remuneration of nurses in all health care institutions, which also offer services performed by nurses, including the independent admission of nurses. Let it be said, for example, that in 2019 the nurses made more than 2.6 million independent visits and more than half a million home visits. The agreement was scheduled for two years and was sent to the Ministry of Social Affairs to include it in the collective agreements register. I believe, Mr Minister, that you are familiar with the draft agreement, its content and its current state of play. According to my information, the collective agreement has not been concluded because the government has promised the Health Insurance Fund EUR 143.4 million from the additional fund instead of EUR 178 million requested from next year's budget. I will repeat very briefly what the sisters want in this agreement. The sister's agreed request is that, from 1 January 2021, the minimum wage for nurses is 9 euros 40 cents per hour, 9 euros 90 cents per hour for special nurses and 6 euros 60 cents per hour for care workers and 10 euros 40 cents per hour for nurses from January 2022, 11 euros per hour for special nurses and 6.60 euros per hour for care workers. In addition, the collective agreement also concerns the remuneration of night work, work on holidays and the replacement of another worker and the possibility of receiving paid additional leave. As the Chairman of the Health Insurance Board, you will have the opportunity, using your influence, to take into account the legitimate demands of the nurses and to set the rates of treatment in such a way as to take account of and include the amount of the wage component required by the nurses. My question is: are you ready to do this and to fight for the most vulnerable, at the forefront, in our healthcare? The corona epidemic clearly showed us how much nurses are needed in addition to doctors. And are you ready to apply for 35 million additional funding for the Health Insurance Fund in the budget negotiations so that the nurses' wage agreement can enter into force from next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U72	Thank you very much for the questions and for the information. Let's start from the beginning. In general, it is a practice indeed, as you well know, that in Estonia the salaries of health care workers are agreed by the various parties in collective bargaining: the Hospital Association and the Emergency Services Association as employers, and then the Association of Physicians, the Health Care Workers Association, sometimes also the Association of Nurses, individually or in cooperation with the Association of Physicians, as a 'workers' union'. I think this good practice should continue. It is not right that the Minister starts dictating, which must be one salary or another, all the more so as this collective bargaining system has actually worked successfully and ensured a sustainable wage increase. When we look at the last few years, we see that the pay of health workers has risen and, with it, emigration has decreased, which, I think, is very reasonable and necessary. Next year will certainly be difficult in terms of wage increases across the entire public sector. Wages have been frozen broadly, and now it is a question of what will happen in these collective negotiations. I certainly think it is right that people who carry out COVID-19 extra duties are nurses or doctors or other health care professionals to be reimbursed. I have also made a request for this year, which concerns the autumn period. Hopefully we'll be able to discuss it tomorrow in the government office. And, of course, it is also possible for hospitals to compensate for these additional costs from their own budget when they see the possibility. As far as this extra money is concerned, I'm sorry for being blunt, but I think somebody may have misled you a little bit. The government allocated a total of 540 million operating grants over four years, of which 143 million by 2021. The remaining minus, which was missing from the health insurance fund, is taken from the undistributed profits. The unallocated result, for example, in 2021, will be used to cover additional costs, I will now say by heart, in the order of 18 million. In total, the real need for a health insurance fund was just over 160 million and this need will be covered. These differing requests, you referred to a million with 170 kopeks, because at different times the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance have been different. Different decisions affect them, it is a change in the employment forecast or, as a specific example, an extraordinary increase in pension, which automatically gives some additional money to the sickness fund. As regards the final request for money, as head of Rain Laane Health Insurance Fund, I met with the leaders of the political parties. We discussed this issue, and the government office fully supported it, so that, according to an additional request from the Health Insurance Fund, these figures were also received in the state budget strategy for four years and in the state budget for 2021. Now, of course, the question is how much of the extra money the Health Insurance Fund's budget is going to increase compared to this year's is going to be 98 million euros in the new year, or almost 100 million euros, how much of it will go to healthcare volumes and how much of it will go to cover the 'price component' or, in this case, in the view of the employees, to cover their wage component. It's already a negotiation place. Here is the question of what is the priority. It is certainly very important for people to have access to medical services, but it is also reasonable and necessary that the salaries of health professionals be competitive. We must look at what Latvia is doing, what Finland is doing, what other neighbouring countries are doing. These negotiations are still under way, but that is not the decision of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U73	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U74	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, I will continue on the subject of children's mental health and the services provided to them. You and the Minister of Education and Research recently received a visit from the School Psychologists Association and from the University of Tartu and Tallinn University, where they drew attention to the problems of preparing school psychologists. The State does not finance the professional year of school psychologists, which would require EUR 225000 per year. As Minister of Social Affairs, who always makes things very clear to himself, you certainly know that less than half of the schools have school psychologists working today. In fact, the law says that the state must provide every child with free psychological advice if he or she needs it. My question is: have you and your colleague, the Minister for Education and Research, been able to discuss what solutions might be? For example, can we here in the Riigikogu help you solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U75	Thank you very much for your question. Yes, it's true that I've received such an appeal. This is not a new issue that has been raised in the past. Certainly in principle, the Ministry of Social Affairs always supports the training of health professionals, it is then the funding of the professional year, the funding of the residency or other forms of follow-up. This is undoubtedly important, all the more so as we are seeing more and more specialization in the field of health, which is also reasonable, because it provides people with the best support, be it at school, in hospital, in a family doctor's centre or elsewhere, where psychologists and health professionals work. This issue has not yet been discussed separately with the Minister for Education and Research. We have briefly considered in the Ministry of Social Affairs what our solution could be, our proposals. Unfortunately, as I said earlier, it is true that there are more requests for money than there are opportunities in our budget. All the more so, as has already been pointed out, the so-called supplement to mental health that came to us is one year. The professional year of clinical psychologists has now been put into the state budget's so-called base. This amount is 0.4 million every year from 2021 to the moment that someone would have to take it out of there for some incomprehensible reason. I hope that never happens. Rather, this amount could be increased as costs would inevitably increase over time. The same can not be said of school psychologists. So we are going to have this meeting with the Minister for Education and Research, to which you referred, to do so and to look at the possibilities in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research, which are in the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Of course, Parliament is also very welcome to hold these debates. If one or the other is seen as an opportunity to move the distribution of money around, so that some other area will not suffer significantly, it is welcome. As we know, the Riigikogu will not introduce new taxes, but small changes can be made. We're not talking about tens or hundreds of millions, we're talking about hundreds of thousands. Such changes are perfectly feasible within Parliament's procedural process, and I think that every euro that is invested in the interests of mental health is a well-invested euro.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U76	The fruit of Thomas, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U77	Thank you! So let's get on with the nurses. These were the figures that I received from the Minister of Finance during the first reading of the draft budget. There are currently 600 unfilled nurses in Estonia. In order to have as many sisters per population as the average in Europe, we need more 4,000 sisters, based on the analyses of different organisations in Estonia and in the rest of the world. Nurses have increased by 46% over the last ten years. At the same time, according to the Institute for Health Development, only 11% of the nurses have come. So far, some wage increases in the collective agreement negotiations have prevented nurses from leaving abroad, but the increase in workload due to the low number of new nurses has forced sisters to resign since the end of this summer. As your minister, I think you also understand that the solution to the situation can come first from two components: firstly, the gradual wage increase under the conditions laid down in collective agreements concluded between employers and employees, on which I asked my first question, and the second component is the greater training of nurses in our health centres, i.e. the Tartu and Tallinn universities of health care. The reality is that there are as if there are enough nurses, but to this day there is no new agreement between the universities of health, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research. There is currently an agreement to accept 550 students from two higher education institutions for the basic education of a nurse. More is hindered, above all, by the funding of higher education institutions and the lack of remuneration for mentoring nurses' traineeships. My question is this: what measures have you taken in a year and a half as Minister for Social Affairs to find a solution to fill the missing nurses' seats in the health care system? How can we ensure the influx of nurses and how can we increase the motivation for existing nurses to stay in work?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U78	Thank you very much for your question. Yes, the role of nurses in the health sector is growing. This is not an Estonian trend; it is a global trend. As we know, this year is an international year of midwives and sisters, as the 200th anniversary of Florence Nightingale is also held. Surely I too consider it important that their income grows together with the responsibility of their sisters. Indeed, both the number of procedures that they can do independently and the number of these independent receptions are increasing. And there are obviously no sisters in Estonia according to any mathematics compared to WHO recommendations. What have we done to increase the number of sisters? I'm sure it's been a matter of money. This year, during the COVID-19 pandemic, the COVID-19 helped to secure a decent salary for nurses and doctors as well as other health professionals. Similarly, certain amounts have been agreed for the next four years. I'll stick to the numbers I marked. EUR 540 million in the form of an operating grant provided by the government over a period of four years, together with the sum of the non-distributed profits, will cover the deficit of the sickness fund that was submitted by the chairman of the board of the sickness fund and by the entire board of directors to the board of the sickness fund and which I have taken to the government for decision. I think that, too, is a very clear step that we are not going to cut down on healthcare, as was the case during the previous crisis. We can discuss what these reasons were, we can indicate that there was a different crisis. Certainly it was different, but I think that the crisis at the time meant a freeze of wages and a reduction in workload for workers, which ultimately meant a drop in wages. For these people, the current crisis and the government have given confidence that, next year, at least the current level of pay will be guaranteed. And, of course, if collective bargaining provides for certain wage increases, we will also find the means to carry them out in accordance with the law. In addition, as I have pointed out, I consider it appropriate to pay the nurses, doctors and other health professionals working in the COVID-19 departments on a higher coefficient of pay, as this work is more stressful and infectious than usual. This requires the use of personal protective equipment, which requires training to be carried out, it was certainly in every sense a challenge in the spring and is now also in the autumn. Further action. Of course, cooperation with higher education institutions is very important. I have met both the University of Health in Tallinn and Tartu. The Kohtla-Järve has not yet arrived, but I will also be there to discuss the main bottlenecks in the reception. The number of admissions has actually increased. But, of course, the issue of funding here is also in the view of universities and also in the view of hospitals: how many places can be moved to work, so that there is no need or temptation to go abroad. We know that Estonian health professionals are highly qualified and are expected in several directions. Our role and desire are certainly to keep them in Estonia. But work and action in this area will continue and, of course, good thoughts and contributions from Parliament are also welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U79	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U80	And we come to the ninth, last question of today, posed by Annely Akkermann. He is answered by Raul Siem, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about the tourism economy. The request for assistance from the tourism sector to the country has so far sounded deaf to the ears. This request is a desire to maintain a critical number of jobs in the sector until the coming season. Taavi Aas has said at the Delovõje Vedomost conference that no aid will come to the tourism sector, and Ratas has said the same to the head of the Estonian Employers' Confederation, Arto Asa. In spite of the fact that the Estonian Tourist Association met with Ratas, Asa, Reinsalu, Kiige and you on 15 October and again proposed extending the Spring Unemployment Fund until April 2021, but this time aimed at tourism entrepreneurs. The amount of the subsidy was requested to be 20 million in the balance. I hear that the Social Ministry has already developed an extension measure, but the government has not discussed it and probably will not discuss it. At the same time, the rest of the members of the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund have said that this support could be granted within this 20 million if the government came to the proposal. Unfortunately, without a government mandate, we cannot vote or give money. Money and measures to support the tourism sector seem to exist, but the political will of the government is lacking. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U82	Thank you for your question. Personally, I do not deal with unemployment fund issues, but, as far as I know, the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has been discussing this issue. And I don't think today that the government has no will. The government, as far as I know, has not yet shaped its final position on this matter. I think this position will come, and then we will find out what the government's position is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U83	Annely Akkermann, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U84	Thank you very much. I think that the entire tourism sector is currently monitoring this session and is hoping for a positive decision. But I want to ask you more. The latest ministerial rhetoric about the tourism sector has been that enough, you already have. The duration of the measure implemented so far was limited in time, the general measure of the unemployment fund was in force until June and the EAS tourism measure until August. At the moment, the borders are as good as closed, not forbidding to go to rest, but at least not recommended. And the current maintenance of the sector is purely on the owner's wallet. I don't know where the wrong news has been released that the tourism sector was overheated. I looked at the data, I didn't. The development of the past years before the corona was of the same magnitude as the overall economic development. Even compared to last year's tax revenue, the subsidies paid to the tourism sector so far do not amount to more than 28%: it is 50 million compared to 180 million. The tax revenue from tourism has been of the same magnitude in previous years and could also be in future years. I do not understand why the government will starve the tourism sector as a laying chicken in the cold. And if so, what does the government mean to fill the resulting budget gap, the resulting 10% deficit in Estonia's balance of payments? And where should 25 000 people currently employed in the tourism sector go? Yeah, software developers are missing, but room servicers don't just train them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U85	Thank you for your follow-up. I could say that I've never met such rhetoric that "you've already got what you need." After all, we all know that the tourism sector is actually an important sector and that the tourism sector has suffered the most during the Coronary Apandemia. Yeah, I understand that. We have met a great many representatives of the tourism sector, the various associations, also at the meeting you referred to. We have met them, and no meeting has been unconstructive or in any way divisive. We have found solutions and we have tried to find these solutions in cooperation. Cooperation means that I do not want to create a situation where officials make up what the business sector might like or what would be good for it. That is the main argument why we have been working very closely with the tourism sector in order to develop the best solutions for this sector. In my opinion, this cooperation has been very good. Yes, indeed, financial resources, in particular in the form of grants, have not been excessive for this sector. At the same time, we must take into account that the corona epidemic or pandemic has shown very clearly that, since it affected tourism in particular, the same sector, this tourism sector must change. This sector must change, this sector must adapt to the new challenges, and these challenges presented us, well, let us say, nature itself. So what I'm saying is that we are working very closely together, precisely very closely. We want this sector to survive, so that the foundation of this sector does not disappear. I believe this is the basis on which we can proceed. So I'm optimistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U86	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U87	Thank you very much. I have a slightly mixed question for Raul Siem, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. In replying to the question of Mart Võrguship, I think you said very rightly that not quantitative considerations, but qualitative considerations determine how parcel terminals must be distributed across Estonia. There must be no great crowds and villages, but quality must be taken into account. You have just signed one very flagrant memorandum with international partners, which aims to create a global platform or standard for digital governance and national e-services. However, the link with tourism is that the whole world is interconnected and technologically indispensable for this area to develop. Do you realise, however, that this pandemic has not only affected the tourism sector? This has affected the whole sector where teleworking, i.e. fast internet connections, is needed. Do you recognize this connection? And yet I have a request that you give certainty to those people who do not come here as tourists, but come here to work remotely, as well as to our own people who do long-distance work for any point in the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U88	You have to admit the connection, but let's try and make it work. Yes, it is true, a few days ago, this memorandum of cooperation was signed, and it is very marked not only for the Estonian state but also in a global sense. This is essentially a memorandum with which we move our digital country into the world as an export item. So, indeed, it is a great and signicant milestone in our development and history as a digital state. As far as tourism and internet connections are concerned, of course, they are all linked. We have reached this phase with our digital state, where we can no doubt overlook any connection, any interrelationship, both in terms of the internal infrastructure and functioning of the country itself and globally. In this respect, I am sure that these links will continue to deepen, and in the end there will be a situation where we realise that there is no other without one, and without the other we will not reach the third. So we live in such a very connected society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U89	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. That concludes the questions of Question Time today. I thank the honourable members of the Riigikogu and thank the members of the Government. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U90	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Attention! We will begin the 6th working week session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to submit drafts or questions? There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Incoming check, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U91	80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 21. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! Clarification of the agenda. On today's third item, the second reading of the draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, will be presented by Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U92	Let's go to today's agenda. First item: Third reading of the draft law amending traffic law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Yes, Mr Kaljulaid, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U93	Good chairman of the sitting! Indeed, I am here today as a representative of the Socialists. In the case of this law, there is a need to recognise the Government's initiative to deal with this issue. At the same time, however, it must be said that this draft has significant shortcomings, which is why it cannot be supported. The main ones were highlighted at second reading. People on foot and cyclists on our streets are not safe and unfortunately there are many accidents. The state and municipalities together do not do enough to change this situation. In addition to safety, limiting the use of cars is extremely important for the achievement of climate objectives and the fight against the climate crisis. However, these objectives are not taken seriously enough either. It is very unfortunate that the amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party concerning mopeding on the bicycle track and on the bicycle road were not supported. This draft does not take into account the proposal made in the collective appeal initiated by the Estonian Yalgrattri Union, the Estonian City Riders' Association and the Estonian Triathlon Union and handed over to the Riigikogu during the previous term to include a minimum distance of one and a half metres from cyclists in the Traffic Act. I would remind you once again that the citizens who signed this collective appeal at their own time received a reply that their proposal would be forwarded to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to deal with it in the preparation of the law amending the Traffic Act. It turns out that this turn-over made of the goodwill of the citizens into the salted, was placed in the farthest corner of the basement and forgotten there. At the same time, of course, it is not possible to solve the main problem with this bill, which is the political and budgetary choices that support the continued caring of Estonian municipalities. In order to achieve a change in this respect, the State should support these municipalities. However, we are proposing this in the course of the state budget procedure. We do not support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U94	Thank you. Sven Sester, please, on behalf of the Fatherland Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was moved by the previous speaker's talk so that we could understand in the same way. I think in that sense we are on the right track. So far, it has not been understood and understood at any moment, which is a light-mobile, what it means by its very nature, how it is regulated. It has still not been possible to regulate it, rather there have been gaps in the law. The legislator has never paid attention to this before. Similarly, potential control bodies have not been able to act accurately and to draw the police's attention to how one or the other user of a light-mobile should behave, as this has not been the subject of legal attention in the past. I think it is important, in itself, if we leave aside all other means of mobility to pay attention to the light-mobile, to specify where it is to be driven, what the driver's rights are, what his duties are from speed limits, and whether the driver has to wear a helmet, and to what age he has to do, what the lighting must be, and so on. It's gotta be fixed somewhere. Today, this bill is on our table, and I certainly call for support for the adoption of such a law. This will give us all, both for light - moving passengers and for all other road users, clarity on how to handle light - moving people daily in urban spaces in the future. I'd rather say the other way around. Now that the legal framework is about to become clear, I call on all the local authorities to deal with the fact that, when the law is in place, there would indeed be roads, crossing paths and everything else in the area of local government, so that both bicycle and light-mobile can ride and travel as pedestrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U96	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 191 and we will go to the final vote on it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the traffic law initiated by the Government of the Republic 191. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U97	77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 9 against and 3 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U98	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the second reading of the Riigikogu's decision "Increasing the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Financial Corporation" submitted by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Dmitri Dmitriyev, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance discussed the draft, including on 20 October. No amendments were received by the deadline of 14 October. No further issues and questions were raised in the session either. Only linguistic and technical specifications have been included in the draft. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary for second reading on Wednesday 28 October, to conclude the second reading and to conclude the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U100	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Henn Põllamaas, please! (H. Põlluaas: "Sorry, accidentally the finger came upon it! ') Copy that. Thank you. No further questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 237, and we will go to the final vote on it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to increase the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the International Financial Corporation 237. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U101	87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U102	Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U103	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 20 October, the Monetary Commission discussed the preparation for second reading of draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The first reading was completed on 30 September. No amendments were tabled on the draft by the deadline of 14 October. The opinion on the draft was sought from the stakeholders mentioned in the explanatory memorandum drawn up by the initiator of the draft, who were involved in the preparation of the draft. No amendments to the draft were received from them. The Governing Commission did not amend the draft, therefore no list of amendments has been drawn up to the draft. At its meeting on 20 October, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 28 October, to propose that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed, on 11 November 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U104	Thank you. No questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments were tabled to the draft and the proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 238. The second reading is closed and the third item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U105	Today's fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Labour Dispute Resolution Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Tõnis Möldri, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft was on 30 September. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft between first and second reading twice at its meeting: 19 October and 26 October. Representatives of the Labour and Pension Policy Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs were also present. No amendments were received within the deadline for amendments. No amendments or comments were received from the [organisations] involved and from the representatives of the stakeholders. The Commission itself made two drafting amendments which were unanimously accepted by the Commission. The Commission decided by consensus to put the draft on the plenary agenda, including 28 October, to propose that the second reading be closed, and the third proposal was that, when the second reading was closed, the third reading should be completed on our proposal, including 11 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U107	Thank you. You have questions too. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U108	Thank you very much. I have a purely technical question here. Paragraph 131 states that the procedure, including record-keeping, takes place in Estonian. A hearing of the Labour Dispute Committee may be held in another language with the agreement of the parties and the members of the committee. If the hearing is held in another language, how does the record-keeping work?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U109	Thank you. I understand that the protocol is still in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U110	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account of it. The second amendment is also the position put forward by the Committee on Social Affairs, the lead committee: take full account of it. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 214. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U111	Let's move on to today's agenda. The fifth item is the first reading of the draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN), initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, and the CERN, on the Grant of Associated Membership at the Pre-Accession Stage. I would like to ask Raul Siemi, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology, as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U112	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has prepared a draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the European Organisation for Nuclear Research (CERN) on the granting of the status of associate member at the pre-accession stage. The Prime Minister of Estonia signed an agreement with the Director General of CERN on 19 June 2020. By ratifying the Treaty, Estonia will become an associated member of CERN, preferably at the beginning of 2021. The period of membership of an associated member lasts 2 to 5 years, after which Estonia will have the opportunity to become a full member. At the time of association, it is possible to earn the money paid as a membership fee equal to the membership fee paid. Upon becoming a full member, this limit disappears and the possibility of earning a member expands, i.e. the full member is able to earn unlimited income. Estonia benefits from joining CERN for the following reasons. Estonian entrepreneurs will be able to participate in CERN procurement in the future, with the ICT and electronics sector as the main options. Co-operation with CERN is also important for Estonian entrepreneurs because it provides Estonian entrepreneurs with references, or CERN itself is a quality label. In addition, when joining CERN, there will be an additional opportunity to increase the technological capacity and, of course, the knowledge capacity of businesses. Engineers and scientists will have the opportunity to work, train and practice in CERN. This in itself also leads to the transfer of knowledge to Estonian business and science. Of course, associate membership also provides an opportunity to participate in research and experimentation. Therefore, joining CERN will be of great benefit to Estonia and offer a variety of opportunities. In cooperation with the EAS and the embassy, we have started preparations to take immediate advantage of the opportunities that I have previously listed when we become associated members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U113	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Are there any rules that must be observed during this so-called probationary period, or during this period, if not done correctly? I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U115	Thank you for your question. The only rule is that an associate member becomes a full member within 2 to 5 years. Why is such a period set? This period has been put in place as the practice so far has shown that the associate member is sufficiently familiar with the logic and principles of the functioning of CERN and adapts to the working processes of CERN. And after adapting to them and getting to know the functioning of CERN, it becomes clear whether full membership is important to members or not. In the end, CERN has now positioned itself so that no one is accepted as a full member on the basis of the so-called first emotion. So this is what you say, apprentice time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U116	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your addition. The question is whether this probation period means that if, for example, we Estonians are not satisfied with anything, then we can step out of it without receiving fines, or the decision-making association will decide whether or not we are worthy of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U118	So far, I do not have the knowledge that anyone would have received a fine, nor do I have the knowledge that the application for full membership of an associated member would have been rejected. I don't know if there have been cases, but I don't think we'll be the first to be rejected. But somehow I don't think there's anything to worry about right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U119	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I now request Mr Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U120	Thank you, good vice chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, 13 October was a happy day when the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft as the first item on the agenda. All the members of the Commission were present, as were our good officials. The draft was presented by Minister Raul Siem, having also brought along his good assistants, Vice Chancellor Viljar Lubi of Economic Development of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and an expert in the Department of Economic Development of Kaupo Sempelson. The Minister gave the same report as he did today. Members of the Commission also had questions, received answers or at least pretended to have received answers. The Commission also adopted decisions: to propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda today (this decision was taken by consensus) and to propose that the first reading be closed (again consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U121	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 230. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 11 November at 5.15 p.m. The fifth item on today's agenda is therefore under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U122	We will move on to today's last, sixth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act 258 on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on co-production in the field of film, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U123	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! This draft ratifys the renewed Council of Europe Convention on co-production in the field of film. The convention itself dates from 1992, but in the production of film, both in production itself, in genres and in transnational cooperation, much has changed since then. The Convention has been approved by the Government and the power to sign it has been granted, including on 2 April. To date, all countries have started to carry out this process, and generally it goes fluently everywhere, especially in smaller countries. I would highlight this convention, perhaps the most important point for us. Indeed, as the film sector requires a lot of resources, a small country has the opportunity to make good movies primarily in cooperation with others, but participation in cooperation projects requires its own contribution. So far, each partner's mandatory contribution has been to provide at least 10% of the funding per film, but now this threshold falls to 5%, which gives smaller countries, including Estonia, the opportunity to participate in more projects. It is certainly favourable to us. So I call for the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on co-production in film. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U124	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have pointed out positively in this process that the own contribution will fall from 10% to 5%. Let me get this straight. But the question is that knowing the percentages is, you know, one thing, but the other thing is how much it could be in absolute numbers. How much more could the Estonian film industry get?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U126	Basically, around 55% of all films in our cinema are co-produced and overall volumes have changed here over the years. When we are talking about a film project that is actually all medium-sized international projects for us are generally of the size of small films on a European scale. Take, for example, a project with a total cost of EUR 1 to 3 million. On this basis, we can say that if we had to pay 100,000 for 1 million so far, now we have to pay 50,000. If we consider that about half of our film production is different from one year to the next, and if we add 3 million to the film production next year, then a calculation can be made that we will be able to participate in co-production projects... If, so far, we put 1.5 million in co-production projects, for example, in fact, this is not always quite one for one, but we take the model, and sometimes we pay more than 10%, then I imagine that our film production can win EUR 100000 million a year on this pure model. But I'm saying this picture is so written that you can't always rely on this calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U127	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U128	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. The Council of Europe's Act on the ratification of the renewed Convention on co-production in film production definitely needs to be supported. But my question is how many films were produced on the screens last year, one of which was Estonia. Do you have an overview?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U129	I'm sure there's a review. I'm sorry, I don't have this number here, but I'll send it to your e-mail address.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U130	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U131	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Is Europe afraid of historical truth coming out, and do we no longer have the right to show all the horror that has been done against humanity in the right colors? I am thinking in particular of this draft, which concerns the introduction of violent content.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U132	Thank you. The meaning of violent content is, of course, broad in the sense that it is different in age groups. Of course, no movie should fake life or change the meaning of events. At the same time, there should definitely be more beautiful moments in the movie. So I can't tell you whether or not the audience would accept total horror or not, and whether there's any horrors of war, let's say, an hour and a half, just to show it really, really ugly. But if you give an overview of historical events, for example, they should not be embellished by the art of film. And this convention certainly does not mean that they should be embellished. The fact that violence must not be encouraged is also included in current laws and human rights acts. More is meant to be the classification of films by age group, by what is suitable for children and what is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U133	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U134	Am I right to understand that, although it was discussed in England for at least five years whether or not Stanley Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange" could be screened, it is still available in the European Union from now on, simply with the indication that it is not suitable for under 18-year-olds? If we let 16-year-olds choose a local government, we think they understand things right. Shouldn't we make some concessions here, because maybe at the age of 18, that movie won't even speak to them again?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U135	Thank you. I'm not a movie freak like you, and I can't talk about the content of all the films, nor about the decisions that should be appropriate for some age group. Sometimes we could watch a movie together and discuss it later. But it is certainly not up to the Minister of Culture to take decisions on which age group and to which target group any film may or may not be shown. At least not in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U136	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I now request Mr Marko Šorini, member of the Committee on Culture, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U137	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, It is very good to present a draft that promises the benefit of the Estonian state, and as the previous questioners have said here, it is certainly worth supporting. Predictably, I will join this call. The Minister presented this draft to the Commission on 19 October. The same meeting also presented the budget for culture. From this introduction, exactly the same motive [as here] emerged that this bill increases Estonia's ability to participate in the European film industry, as the [financing] obligation for co-production falls from 10% to 5%. At the time of the introduction, only one question was asked, in contrast to the large hall, where there were four times as many, and this concerned coordination. Daniel Raudsepp, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry, confirmed that the draft has been agreed with the film cluster and that things are in order. Later, President Aadu Black proposed that this draft be dealt with today and that I be the rapporteur. The Commission was consensually in favour of both proposals and felt that the first reading should be concluded. Since the draft is rather voluminous, it is perhaps simply those questions that were heard before the floor. What is the share of co-production in the Estonian film industry today? Since 2015, the share of co-production has been 39% of the overall volume, but it accounts for 75% of Estonian film industry exports. And now that this [funding] level is becoming lower for us, the number of films that transmit Estonian culture will certainly increase. In the Constitution, we have committed ourselves to promoting, developing and maintaining Estonian culture until the end of time. So this is a very good draft and I urge you to definitely support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U138	Thank you, dear waitress. You were wrong to say that the big hall has four times as many questions. There are at least five of them, because Üllar Saaremäe has one question. Please, Üllar Saaremäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U139	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Actually, I have two questions. The other one will be here in a minute. Dear waitress, My question concerns Article 5 "Conditions for obtaining the status of a co-production project" in point 3: "Projects which clearly promote pornographic content or discrimination, hatred or violence or are publicly offensive to human dignity cannot be granted the status of a co-production project. " And the question is very simple. What happens if the script on which the film will be produced is classified, as happened with "Tenet"? This manuscript had perhaps been read by the director's closest circle. The co-workers didn't know much about the content, what was being filmed and why was being filmed. So how do we fill this point if we don't know exactly what the content is?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U140	Yes, the very simple answer would be that this issue did not come up in the Commission. Of course, in the meantime, the air has gotten a little thicker than homoerotic, so I understand why such a question. But, of course, if those who decide these things are not aware of the substance of the matter, they cannot prohibit it or not issue the co-production status. If the [recent] fact becomes known, the co-production status may be withdrawn from the film and consequently all grants and other beneficial aspects of the film will disappear. That's my assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U141	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U142	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The second question about the same point. If any of the deplorable traits I read here are some creators' handwritings -- la us want to come to film Quentin Tarantino, who, with his violent scenes, is still screwing up so much that it's funny to some people, but some people take it back as a promotion, then what do they do in that case? Are we gonna tell a world-famous director to find another place?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U143	Thank you. Another good question and a reference to a very good filmmaker, Quentin Tarantino. Well, here's the thing again, where does it run into water, whether it's a violent movie or a movie calling for violence? I'm sure there's a pretty big difference between them, and apparently this decision-making place runs right through there. If the film is just bloody and there are a lot of deaths, then it [is just violent]. I think last night they showed Rambo a movie where you can read how many bodies they're finally gonna get together. It was released on our own television. So the question is, yes, whether violence is called and promoted or whether the film is simply violent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U144	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U145	Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-10-28_U146	Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 258. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 11 November at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is over and the session is over. Thank you. See you tomorrow!
