ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 7th working week. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? There is no request for referral of drafts and enquiries. Then, ladies and gentlemen, presence control, please! 72 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 29.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Government of the Republic (148 SE, combined drafts 101 SE and 117 SE). Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Yes, on behalf of the Group of the Reform Party of Toomas Kivimägi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U3	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, All the countries of the world are competing for capital. Although Estonia is located in a very fierce geographical place, it is not worth jumping to a conclusion that Estonia is the center of the world, certainly not in view of the attractiveness of capital. The reason is not even so much geographical location as our own size and perhaps distance from markets or proximity to markets. As a result, Estonia, as a small country, must fight its own place at this table in the capital market. The second, which is very important in view of this objective, is the background system, above all the situation in our neighbouring countries, which are our biggest competitors in view of this objective. If we look at neighbouring countries, there are significantly less stringent requirements for capital raising in Latvia and Lithuania as well as in Finland, Sweden and Denmark. This certainly must not go unnoticed. If we ignore this, there is no need to doubt that a large part of the capital is moving past Estonia. The Reform Party Group supports this draft. However, I will certainly not fail to mention that a number of members of the Reform Party Group pointed out that the approval of this draft is subject to some legal certainty. Indeed, if, in certain cases, we lose the notarial formality of the transfer of parts, or, to say the rural language, the raising of capital, the legal order will certainly suffer somewhat, because there is no point in underestimating the professionalism of notaries and their contribution to strengthening the legal order. But you always have to look at what's on one and the other. In the present case, this small incision in the so-called legal order is significantly less than that which remains in the second position. The start-up companies estimate that the amount of money that start-ups raise as foreign capital every year is EUR 300.400 million. If we didn't create competitive conditions for raising capital to the extent that the conditions of competition are not good in Estonia, start-ups have drawn attention to the fact that it would most likely mean that several companies wishing to raise foreign capital, above all start-ups, would move somewhere else: Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Sweden and Denmark. This would be a significant loss for the Estonian economy, but also in view of the revenue from the state budget. What is still important and what alleviates some of this legal uncertainty is still the fact that the possibility of using less stringent formal requirements under this draft applies only to private limited liability companies, which all shareholders, without exception, all shareholders, have approved it. If one member of a private limited-liability company also disagrees with the relaxation of the formal requirements, the same procedure as has been in force until today. Another important relief also in view of the breach of the legal order is the fact that the possibility to use less stringent formal requirements at all, i.e. to waive the requirement of notarial proof, is limited to private limited liability companies with a share capital of at least EUR 10000. There was also a pretty big debate about this in the Committee on Legal Affairs. While the Ministry of Justice came up with a proposal that it could be EUR 25000, the Committee on Legal Affairs initially proposed EUR 5000 and as an agreement, a compromise was found that it could be EUR 10000. This, too, is actually a considerable limiting factor, which means that private limited-liability companies, who are theoretically given the opportunity to waive the formal requirement for notarial proof, may be in the order of magnitude of a tenth, perhaps a little more. But once again, to implement it... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U4	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U5	... all members of the private limited liability company must agree to this. What's also very important is that looking back in time, I think this notarial formal requirement wasn't bad, but let's see when it came. It came in the early nineties. If we compare this business culture and business environment, which was in the early nineties, with what is today, I believe that all of you will admit that it is like a night and a day. So I think it is justified, in any case, to take a step forward, to make foreign capital more liberal. As I mentioned, this EUR 300.400 million additional capital in the Estonian economy every year, and there is no need to doubt that this amount will actually increase the size of the Estonian capital market, so as not to say, a very important contribution to Estonian business and economy, given its small size. I very much hope that this bill will perhaps become a year of quite the first months of a nominated year for a business-friendly law award. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U6	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. We have finished the negotiations and we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Commercial Code initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee and the Government of the Republic 148. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with one abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U7	Today's second item is the continuation of the second reading of the draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U8	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act initiated by the Monetary Committee at its meeting on 20 and 25 February. Marek Feldman, Head of the Legal Service of Eesti Pank, also participated in the meeting on 20 February. The draft specifies the basis for the composition of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and the conditions for its members and the duration of the mandate. The second reading was suspended on 17 December and the deadline for submitting amendments was 6 January and no amendments were tabled to the draft. The European Central Bank was asked for an opinion on the draft. The European Central Bank's opinion was received on 5 February. It drew attention, among other things, to the fact that the draft law does not provide for a procedure in the event that the Riigikogu Group does not appoint its representatives to the Council or that the representatives of the political groups of the Riigikogu are called back or are not coordinated in the Chamber. The opinion also proposed that the draft law clearly stipulate that in cases where a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has been the subject of a conviction judgment in a criminal case or has been the subject of a business ban, the mandate of the member who has been recalled will not be extended until a new member has been appointed to the Board in its place. The Governing Commission made two amendments to the draft on the basis of the opinion of the European Central Bank, which are included in the list of amendments. Explanations of the amendments can be found in the list of amendments. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda and that the second reading be closed on 10 March inclusive and to propose that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed by 17 March 2020. At the meeting on 20 February, Marek Feldman stated that Eesti Pank would support the proposal made in the opinion of the European Central Bank to clarify what would happen if the Riigikogu Group did not submit a candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The second comment concerned a situation in which the mandate of a member of the Governing Council expired, but the new member of the Governing Council has not yet been appointed and the old member's mandate is being extended. The draft act should specify that, where a conviction or a business prohibition has entered into force for a member of the Council, the mandate of his or her member of the Council shall expire immediately upon the entry into force of that decision. It was also stated in the Commission that the amendments resulting from the proposed amendment had been incorporated in the proposals for improvement. On behalf of Eesti Pank, Marek Feldman asked for the draft to be amended in such a way that the concept of the composition of the Supervisory Board would be removed from the Eesti Pank Act. According to the draft, this includes only the members of the Supervisory Board proposed by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and not the members appointed by the Riigikogu on a proposal from the political group. The definition of the Council's composition may therefore not be precise, in addition, Paragraph 7 (7) of the Act needs to be clarified, which, and in which cases, appoints alternate members of the Supervisory Board. It is no longer appropriate to link the term of office of an alternate member to the term of office of the person whom he or she replaces, subject to the exclusion of the concept of composition from the draft. These amendments have also been incorporated into the draft as proposals. On 25 February, amendments were voted and an amendment was introduced that, if the President of the Council appoints his representatives, they would be appointed as experts in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U9	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U10	Good manager! Good waitress! Good bill, but one question. It is quite strange that here, for example, if the Riigikogu Group has not submitted its candidate, it will lose [representative], saying it in rural language, but if the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has not presented any experts, it is the longer story that the Riigikogu will present them on the proposal of the Monetary Committee. Is it more theoretical than it is possible that all political groups will present their representatives, and now one does not submit that one group will be lost? Is that a hypothetical option? For the second option, if the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has not submitted, the solution proposed is that the Riigikogu will still find them on the proposal of the Monetary Committee, for example, the deadline will be extended. We are talking about the fact that one group has not submitted for some reason, although it seems to me that this is rather theoretical.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U11	Thank you, Peter, for a very good question. You've just forgotten why we're making this bill. We are doing this for a simple reason: the Chairman of the Council did not submit his candidates by the deadline; he submitted them so late; they were also without discussing them with the political groups of the Riigikogu. That is why we have now come to a bill with a deadline. Two fundamental changes have been made here. One is that four candidates can be appointed as Chairman of the Council and we will not challenge them. The second is that each political group can present its own representative. There is no way that the Committee on Monetary Affairs can present a representative of a group; this right is only granted to a group from among its members. It is therefore very clear that if a group does not want its representative in the Bank Council, it is the decision of that group and there will be no representative there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U12	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U13	It was so sympathetic how you praised the question so you could put it down, saying that the questioner had forgotten everything. But I have not forgotten that the purpose of this bill seems as if the Fatherland simply needed two members of the council. Talk about how one party has two representatives and the other one.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U14	Thank you, Jürgen, for a good question. When this bill was sent to the first reading or the bill was defended, when the chairman of the bank's board had set up his candidates, three members of the Fatherland were spoken of. After it turned out that the three still were not, and in the end there was only one. At the time Mart Laar presented the names, he was himself chairman of the council. It has been clearly agreed that the President of the Council, acting on a proposal from the President, shall be elected every five years or every six years. Whether this person has party membership or not, no one can say that today until the next candidate is nominated. Today, yes, the situation is that each political group can propose one candidate. Currently, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank belongs to the Fatherland Party, no one disputes it, but next time it may belong to any other party or be completely free, not belong to any party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U15	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U16	Good waitress! Good manager! I'll move on to Jürgen's question. Yeah, it's the law to correct Mart Laar's failure right now. But still, looking ahead: how do you make sure that some party doesn't pull out two straws next time, no matter what the name of that other straw is?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U17	Very simple. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is approved by the same Riigikogu and no one else. The Riigikogu decides whether to support the candidate the President proposes. Whether this person belongs to a party or not, no one can say today. Currently, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank belongs to a political party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U18	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U19	Thank you. It's like they're walking around a hot porridge. I will then ask you straight: in the current situation, in which Mart Laar is the honorary chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank, if I am not mistaken, or in any case very closely associated with the Fatherland, is there a situation where you will additionally appoint one member, or is Mart Laar also a representative of the Fatherland? So how is this change going to make it possible for you to be able to present someone more and create a sort of overrepresentation, as has been suggested many times here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U20	Thank you for a very good question. If you read the draft law, there is a very clear clause here that each political group can present one representative from among its members. Perhaps today there are five political groups in the Riigikogu and each political group, including the Isamaa Party, can present its representative as a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, regardless of who is at that time the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U21	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Two amendments to the draft have also been tabled. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account. We have examined the amendments, the proposal of the lead committee is to carry out a draft... I'm sorry! My bad. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 97. So the second reading is finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U22	We can move on to today's third item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act 122 initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group. But before we go to the third item, I will brief you on the procedure for processing this point, ladies and gentlemen. Listen carefully. The rapporteur is Jüri Jaanson, a member of the Riigikogu, and the questions are printed in real time by the Secretary of the Chamber and displayed on the waitress's monitor. I therefore ask, as President of the sitting, that you put your question at a reasonable pace so that it can be fixed in writing. In addition, the sign language translator translates this transmission. So let us consider this need and time when we ask the question. As President, I accept that if the question goes a little over a minute, but I have a request, let us not abuse it and let us not ask two or three-minute questions. Let us, more or less, try to meet this minute deadline. But since we have agreed that the sign language interpreter will be ready for translation at 10:30, I will take the chairman's break until 10:30, ladies and gentlemen. So it's intermission until 10:30.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U23	Ladies and gentlemen, We shall proceed to the sitting of the Riigikogu. The third item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act 122 initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The rapporteur is Jüri Jaanson, member of the Riigikogu. I would like to remind you once again that we are asking questions at a calm pace so that they can also be displayed on the screen. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! Good online viewers! For starters, I am really happy to note that we are making some history here today. This current item of the bill is transferred directly to the Riigikogu online together with sign language translation, in an image-picture format. The conference hall has a screen set up, sign language interpreters translate, it is taken up, these images are glued together on top of each other and then visible on the web. I think it's a good sign. This shows that technology is not an obstacle to us; it shows that basically everything is possible if there is good will. But now for the introduction of the bill. This is a law amending the Estonian National Broadcasting Act. There is not much change here, only in § 5 (1) (1) (1) we replace the word 'fearers' with 'persons with hearing disabilities'. Why is this important? This is important because people with hearing impairments, this expression includes two groups of people with hearing loss or impaired hearing needs. One is the lack of hearing, when said in rural languages, they are hearing impaired, and the other is the group with the missing hearing, or deaf. This distinction can also be clearly made medically, but a different matter is important here. The other thing is that these two groups have completely different communication needs. If hearing impaired people, people with hearing loss, in general, can also cope with the textual form of Estonian written language, or subtitles, for example in television broadcasts, then deaf people who are born and raised deaf and who have missed the opportunity to acquire verbal or auditory language and who have acquired Estonian sign language as their native language will still have sign language, Estonian sign language as a means of communication. It's important to know the difference here. It has also been mentioned in the Estonian Language Act since 2007 that sign language is an expression of the Estonian language and is part of the Estonian language. He is a separate language, but he is not a separate language in the sense that he is something completely separate, he is independent, but he is an expression of the Estonian language, a form of the Estonian language and, as such, also valid as a state language. What is very important is that this section of the bill that we are talking about here, or the point that we are talking about, is not imperative. This is not the case, since the Estonian National Broadcasting is currently obliged to pay attention to hearing impaired people, they must follow it and all live broadcasts, chat programmes and all kinds of broadcasts must be adapted to hearing impaired persons. No, it's not like that. The wording is, in fact, that all programmes must be made available as far as possible to hearing people, and when we adopt this amendment to the law, as far as possible, to persons with hearing impairments, that is to say, sign - language deaf people. Here's the important difference. What do you need it for? This is one of the reasons, but it is very important to point out that we must not, we do not have any right to discriminate against the deaf by leaving them completely out of the influence of television space or television image, not even in the law that their communicative needs exist. It is also very important for the deaf to feel themselves as part of society. We also point out that we still have an information society and that more and more information exchange takes place through digital transmissions, television images, all kinds of communication tools. Here it is important to think about how information actually reaches people who are deficient, who simply cannot cope with hearing. So much for a bill introduction. When it comes to operational terms, of course, it is important to mention that there will be some costs, certainly there will be. Above all, there has been good will here. After all, good will is that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, for example, was working very hard to ensure that the first reading of the same draft could be carried over directly with the sign language translation. But, of course, one very large and important cost is the additional cost of sign language interpreters, it certainly adds, and there will be other costs, but that I will perhaps talk about later. I'm going to sum up a little bit about what's really important in this bill. First of all, the involvement of sign-speaking deaf people in society. As I said, getting information to them is important, people need information in order to make choices in life, choices can still be made on the basis of the information they receive, participation in the education system or other such solutions are also important. It should be mentioned that high-level training of sign language interpreters, for example, is essential for receiving information, which needs to be resolved on an ongoing basis. So there's a lot of important things involved. If there is time and questions, I can respond to them further, but I will also comment a little on the opinions on this draft. It is well regrettable, of course, that the Government of the Republic took a negative view of this draft. I don't understand it. This negative attitude was based on the justification of the Ministry of Culture that Estonian Public Broadcasting needs additional technology, requiring additional investments of at least 300000 euros each year. I might ask if this is the cost of rejecting the deaf. I would like to draw attention to an important point here. When the ERR was asked about technology, the starting point was the direct broadcasting technology. But if someone now imagines that if the law has, as far as possible, the maximum availability of Estonian National Broadcasting programmes for the hearing person has been in the letter since 2005, and that means that the hearing person has access to live broadcasts, then that is not the case. That's a very mistaken opinion. I can talk about myself here. I don't have access to the "Actual Camera" for example. 'Actual camera' is, you know, any very important source of information for a member of the Riigikogu and in Estonian society. But since it's not subtitled, I don't have access to it, because hearing me isn't the best thing to do. It was such a personal example. The opinion of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People is the opposite. In its opinion, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People stresses § 44 of the Constitution, which states that Estonian citizens have the right to free access to information distributed for general use. It's very important. As well as the International United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which we ratified in this very Chamber in 2012, Article 9 says that people with disabilities must be guaranteed access to information and communication, including information and communication technologies and systems. It's important. The Union of the Deaf has set out its positions separately. The leader of the Deaf Alliance has said that on our side I can say that if the government does not agree with your proposal to change the word 'fearers' in the draft and replace it with 'people with hearing disabilities', then we feel that our sense of justice has been violated and the principle of equal treatment has been severely violated. He asks how the deaf community should behave and what to do about the situation. That's their position. Finally, the opinion of the national broadcasters, the summary of which is simple: they do not, in principle, oppose the amendment of this law. In one question I also asked the Minister of Social Affairs what he thought about the matter, but he said that the Ministry of Social Affairs also supported the draft. So why don't you go get it? What's going on? It was a review. Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the Committee on Social Affairs, as well as to the Committee on Culture, because the Committee on Culture also worked very thoroughly and consensually on this draft, and, of course, to the Committee on Social Affairs, where there was a very thorough exchange of views on this subject and on whom the opinion was also presented to the Committee on Culture. I would also like to thank the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, the technical people of the Riigikogu for the opportunity they have created here today that what is happening here will be transferred directly to the Riigikogu website with a sign language translation window. I hope that the first reading of this draft will be completed, that this draft will go quickly to second reading, then to third reading and become a law. But finally, I'll bring another quote. These are the words of our Prime Minister Jüri Ratas when he commented on the President's speech at the celebration of the anniversary of the Republic: 'Estonia must also be built on 24 February from 18.05 to 18.30, more bridges must be created, more connected. Not to put society in separate corners and break it apart. ' Unfortunately, the government did the opposite in this draft, but I hope that Parliament will take a different view. Thank you very much. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U25	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, We know that huge investments have been made throughout the period of independence in Estonia in order to bring people with special needs into social life and working life. They have built ramps, wheelchair access, and the pavement is equipped with relief stones for the blind. In addition to all this, investments seem...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U27	Calm down, please! We can't write it down. Let's take a deep breath. Let's take a break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U28	... in national broadcasting for sign language broadcasts quite minimal, marginally small. If taken more broadly, have the economic and social impact of hearing impairments been studied?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U29	Thank you. That's a very good question. First of all, whether the investments of the national broadcasters themselves are large or small, I would not comment, it must be decided by the Government of the Republic. But compared to the loss of hearing disabilities and any disability, they're actually pretty big. That's a good question. I will start by replying to the fact that in 2012, we started a work capacity reform that reached Parliament in 2014. In order to reform the system of incapacity-for-work pensions, it became a system of work capacity benefits, I say now, 350 million euros of European taxpayers' money was transferred, as well as our own taxpayers' money. The main aspect of this replay or the transformation of the system was to involve people first in society, in production, and secondly, it will start to produce itself evenly in the future. However, when we talk specifically about hearing impairments and its effects, these effects are really quite numerous, or they are actually quite significant. These studies have been conducted. I've been digging into this subject lately and getting information from various studies that really show different things. The amounts vary, but they're in billions, extremely large. Some examples. It has been made clear that every euro invested in hearing technology in Europe will bring back an additional 10 cents. For example, a scientific study has been carried out in France, which shows that if 50% of people who do not have hearing aids that have not been rehabilitated so far would have been rehabilitated, health care costs would already have a gain of less than EUR 300 million in the French country. In England, a university survey has been carried out on Europe as a whole, which shows that failure to address hearing problems costs Europe as a whole, not only the European Union, but all European countries, in the order of EUR 200 billion per year, around EUR 185 billion. I wouldn't stick to those numbers, but those numbers are terrible. The same study points out that about a third of this amount was estimated at €55.60 billion, a third of which is "direct costs' that should be invested in rehabilitation, and others are the costs of loss of well-being or quality of life. But the costs of quality of life mean that people do not have access to jobs, access to education. This is all the major damage to society, which has been converted into such a size. When we talk about social costs, interesting parallels have been pointed out that hearing disability in middle age is one of the main causes of changing dementia. Why? In fact, it's very simple: the human brain needs information to work if the brain doesn't get information, it doesn't work. If a person is still connected and older, if he is in middle age, if he loses hearing, if he is not very mobile, if he cannot get information, if he cannot watch TV, then it can be imagined to be like standing and flowing water. Information doesn't move, brain development stops, dementia develops. This has been mentioned as an important reason for changing it, because it is through investment. These are the reasons. If we are now talking about general figures, such as how many people are hearing impaired, then the prediction is that there will be about 100 million hearing impaired people throughout the European Union or in Europe in the next 20 years or in the next 15 to 20 years. Why is that? But because society is so noisy and noisy. If not dealt with, this is a very big societal problem that can be calculated economically. The effects are great. I say the root causes need to be addressed. Let us say, for example, that we are now talking a lot about nursing homes where dementias need to be placed if they are unable to cope in their own circumstances. But are we also talking about dealing with the root causes why people remain demented? Hearing loss can be one of the important causes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U30	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U31	Thank you very much, Mr President. And thank you, dear colleague Jüri, for making history here in the Riigikogu Hall today! My question concerns money. Many of the decisions we make in this Chamber concern money. You said in your report that national broadcasting needs EUR 300,000 every year to invest in order for the deaf to receive minimum information from the ERR screens. As the leader of this bill, is it the only amount you know, or how much can this overall cost be for national broadcasting?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U32	Let's pick the Adamjo pace!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U33	Yes, indeed, I cannot say the total cost now, but it is certainly not the only cost. It is pointed out here that 300000 are these costs (I can quote the opinion of the ERR) for the separate connection needed between the national broadcasting and the television service provider. In short, the separate cable that's in there. But it is clear that there is an additional need for sign - language translation, for example, a need for training, and a period of translation costs something. Of course, separate studios are also probably needed. But once again, we are talking about the possibility of live broadcasts and the technological opportunity that we can do well with, but we will also be able to do it more easily, as is the case here, where live broadcasts are taking place.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U34	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am sure that the Riigikogu will support this bill. And there is at least one good aspect: there is a greater need for sign language interpreters. In your presentation, you touched on the issue of interpreters' training. How much and in which educational institutions today do sign language translation and do important changes need to be made?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U36	I'm sure it will, but what is this particular number, I don't know. I'd like to highlight the real situation at the moment. What's the situation? Now there is a translation of 24 with a certificate of competency, plus young interpreters, who are also treated as interpreters with a certificate. They have not received higher education in this field, they have received, I do not know, vocational or vocational training in this respect. However, according to the specialization organisation of interpreters, the real need in Estonia would be now, if there are no such television programmes yet, 70-80 interpreters. It would cover all the parental leave and other things going on in life. This would cover the current need of the deaf. Here it should be borne in mind that if we attract deaf people more into society, they themselves will become more active, bolder and, of course, they want to know more, want to learn more, want to participate more in elections or studies, for example, and then this need will increase. If that question was about the need for interpreters, then so is it. Of course, one major problem in this respect is that the University of Tartu will no longer train translation with higher education since 2016. This, in turn, is a problem on which we are waiting for a solution. In response to one inquiry last year, Minister of Education Mailis Reps pointed out that in April the Ministry of Social Affairs should prepare a study on needs. We're looking forward to it. We know that some solutions have to be found here. A simple question: How can a deaf person receive higher education if an interpreter does not have higher education, does not know the terminology, does not know the system under which higher education is trained? Another important problem here is that interpreters need to become more and more specialised. For example, court interpreters. The cases are sometimes difficult, and the protection of rights is very important for us. So the topic of interpreters is an important issue that must be resolved in some way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U37	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U38	Thank you. Good waitress, my question concerns subtitles. In many countries of the world, it is possible to put subtitles down for programmes at the same time as the show is shown. I have even used it in countries whose language I still learn to listen to and read words down there at the same time. How do you assess whether the addition of subtitles to our programmes could improve the knowledge of the Estonian language of people in other languages, as they could use these subtitles in the same way to learn the language?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U39	I'm sure he will. This is actually very important, and it is also a fact from research that subtitles are used very much in other languages, especially during language studies, because it is easier to read than to listen. But on the other hand, it can also be said that when we talk about this subject, the subtitles do not help the deaf in sign language. This is also a problem, because sign language has a completely separate approach or structure. I give this example that when you read, for example, the text written by a typical sign language deaf in Estonian, at least I, and probably none of you, are able to understand this very much. But at the same time, the interpreters have told me that if they read it in the usual way, they won't understand it either, but if they start looking at sign language logic, they'll know what it says. That's interesting. But yes, the addition of subtitles will also help you learn other languages. It is a good topic in this sense that we are also moving here in Estonia towards that subtitles come as'machine' text. But it will take some time, because the Estonian language is, first, complicated and, second, the machine must be able to pass on the text expressed in different ways with different dictations from different people. In English, Spanish, or other languages, such a thing has been dealt with much longer, and language itself is easier in this sense. I hope at some point in the future we can get there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U40	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U41	Thank you. Estonian Public Broadcasting shows sign language news, which is ETV2's earlier evening news. Is it possible, however, from this experience, to achieve the result that you are currently trying to regulate by law, and these sign language news could be organised technically, in terms of investment and also in terms of interpreters? Has this led to any calculations or conclusions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U42	Thank you. I'm sure it is. The fact that ETV2 broadcasts sign language news is a very strong word. However, steps must be taken from here to ensure that social-political programmes and opinion programmes also reach people in sign language, even when they are watched. It's very important. But another issue that is very important is that if the higher leaders turn to the whole nation, even with their speeches, they should reach the sign-speaking people as well as the hearing people. I would like to give an example that we fought very strongly this year's turn to ensure that the President's speech could also be directly drawn and that, at the time of the New Year's, we would reach the deaf in sign language. Unfortunately, we couldn't do it this turn of the year. A sign - language translation was made to the president's speech, which was to be seen the following evening, on the evening of 1 January. I guess emotion wasn't that anymore. Of course, the deaf were very disappointed. Solutions must be found here so that, for example, speeches by Heads of State can be translated into sign language. Another important issue, such as electoral debates during the elections. On what basis does the deaf go to the ballot box and choose? He doesn't understand television debates, he doesn't know who's talking. As a result, the voter rate among the deaf is not necessarily low, or some people are chosen to be trusted. Their approach is not argument-based, but trust-based, because substantive electoral information does not reach them. Yes, these issues would be manageable if, even if they were viewed in national broadcasting, the programmes would have been routed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U43	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U44	Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. Good first speaker! We know that at the moment five of the programmes of Estonian National Broadcasting have been subtitled (both live and follow-up) from weekly programmes, five of them, which are shown every week: "Happy 13," "Spectator," "Prillitoos," "Morning Anuga" and "Small drum." Have you, in essence, discussed with the Estonian National Broadcasting about possible alternatives, what steps could be taken in the first stage to increase the volume and number of these programmes, so that more new names should be added?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U45	Thank you for your question. I don't know how to estimate the volume of the broadcasts, but I'd rather take it as a rule and as a basis that the more, the better. But I do think that, above all, the current social-political programmes, which reflect our everyday state of life, our daily political state of affairs, are talking about the needs of people on the clock, for example, in cases of emergency, all kinds of crisis reports, should reach the whole society directly and as soon as possible. That's the starting point. On the other hand, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, for example, has said in its opinion that they believe that I will review precisely the volume of subtitles every year could increase by 5% and sign language translation by 1%. I don't know if I should hold on to these percentages, but definitely, the more, the better. The programmes that are certainly important, including the performances of the leaders of the Riigikogu, should reach everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U46	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have pointed out in the explanatory memorandum that following the adoption of the law, the number of sign language programmes in the ERR programme is expected to increase. You have also pointed out here that sign language translation...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U48	Slow down, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U49	... is financed from the existing budget of the ERR. My question is: from the budget for which programmes should this money come, from the budget for children's programmes, sports programmes or other programmes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U50	Thank you for your question. I think I am not quite the right answer, this question should still be addressed above all to the authors of the budget. It is more a matter of principle. After all, any program that is planned and should reach the whole of society should actually include this line of sign language translation or subtitling. This should be added to the programme, and this should also be the case with the Ministry of Finance. In principle, we finance Estonian National Broadcasting from the public budget, from the budget of all taxpayers. The question is how this budget is written. I do not think that this money should be taken from children's programmes, sports programmes or other programmes, I think that this money must be found either by saving overall costs or by getting more money from the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U51	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good George! I have two questions, and one of them may be pretty stupid, but what I can do is get smarter. The first question is not stupid. The first question concerns the fact that you said that the government had made a negative assessment of this draft. However, I also know that in the case of the incident you described, the President's New Year speech, the President's speech remained untranslated because of opposition from the President's office, who was unable or unwilling to send the speech in writing to the ERR in due time. That is my first question: Do you feel that the government and the people who are supposed to set an example for society are, in no way, completely negative at this time, both for this bill and for the problem? But the second question, the one that could be stupid...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U53	Easy now! Question one, please repeat again!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U54	Ah! Do you also sense that the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Office of the President are unnecessarily negative in terms of both this draft and this problem, which in itself is surprising? And the other half of the question...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U55	Easy!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U56	... which may be foolish is whether sign language is a universal language or whether it is that Estonian sign language and Russian sign language are, for example, two completely different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U57	Thank you, Valdo! I'll start by saying that there are certainly no stupid questions here. The more we talk about hearing and translating, the more we explain it to ordinary society, the better. When we talk about this incident, no, the President's New Year's speech was not untranslated because of the President's office, there were other reasons, there were reasons for national broadcasting. They are not so important at the moment, I am not going to bring them out, but I do think that alternative solutions could have been used here. There were certain decisions made to save workers, but I think the President's Office or the President himself could have taken a slightly different approach. For example, the President could have invited a sign language interpreter to his side, the easiest one, and it would have translated directly. There are solutions, we can solve things. I do not feel that the President's office has taken a negative position on this bill; they have not said anything about it at all. But the negative position of the government is incomprehensible to me, frankly, because it is essentially unconvinced. I have the impression that they have not taken the matter into account at all, just at a government hearing it was quickly pushed off the table, perhaps for some, I don't know, political reasons. I'm very sorry about that, of course. The second question is whether sign language is a universal language. No, it's not. There is Estonian sign language, there is Russian sign language, there is English sign language, they are all different, and there is also international sign language. That's pretty interesting. For example, I myself have been in a situation where the story of me and a Kurdish journalist from Israel was translated through two interpreters. We sat on opposite sides, and there were two interpreters next door. Why two? Because we have one deaf signer here in Estonia who possesses both Estonian and international sign language. The translation was that my story was first translated by a common sign language translator into the Estonian sign language and then translated by a deaf interpreter into the international sign language. That's exactly the kind of line that this text got back to me. So the answer is no. That is why the language law and other laws clearly state that it is an Estonian sign language. Estonian sign language is part of the Estonian language, an independent part.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U58	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U59	Good manager! Good waitress! I think the bill is very good. But here's the question. Today's first reading of about an hour will cost the taxpayer about 100 euros. If sign language is probably Estonian sign language or should there also be Russian sign language? The use could come from the national broadcasting budget, so what would the audience prefer, to spend it on the 'Actual Camera' or 'Happy 13'?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U60	Thank you. That second question is pretty good. But the first question or the reply that the first reading will cost the taxpayer about 100 euros, to comment, is that no, it will cost far more, because the working hours of the Riigikogu still cost much more, already looking at it. I don't know exactly how much he's gonna pay, but I'm sure it's not 100 euros. Let's look at our salaries, look at our expenses, officials' salaries, everything. But if we're talking about the sign language budget, the choice between these two shows, I'd say that's a really good question, because these two shows are completely different from their format. "Actual camera" is a live show. In terms of content, he is being prepared, and it is the current state of news that is being reported. We need to get this news now and quickly. The cost of this subtitling would be significantly higher than, for example, 'Happy 13', which can be shown today, tomorrow or after a month and a year, already during the production of the programme, you can prepare subtitles for each show at a calm pace, just as it is done. These are basically different examples. How would the attitude of people with hearing impairments be shared, who would want what? I dare myself to think that perhaps 'Actual Camera', because I think everyone would like to know about the daily news, but 'Happy 13' is still more the property of middle-aged and older viewers. I would take such a very, very simplified approach. But in order to find out the preference of people with hearing impairments, maybe you should do a little debriefing. I think it's a direct subtitling of the "Actual Camera," considering the number of people with hearing impairments, considering that the number of people who don't take part in the daily news is pretty high.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U61	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U62	Thank you, good manager. Good George, thank you for this small but very important change. Democracy is not cheap; standing up for human rights is not necessarily cost-effective. For example, it would be considerably cheaper for the taxpayer if a hundred of us went to producing work and Helir-Valdor Seeder could decide alone. But some things have to be done because they're right, and I think it's one of those legislative changes. Don't you think we're entangled in technical issues and expenses and we don't really see any possibilities? For example, the development of Estonian language technology, which has been a priority for us, could be applied, for example, to subtitling the 'Actual Camera'. We will see that we will then also increase the cohesion of society, and we will also see in it the opportunity for technological development and growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U63	Yeah, I totally agree with all that. Yes, we really get stuck in a lot of pointlessly tiny things, for example, there is so much trouble or so much explaining, and unfortunately there is also a negative attitude to this. We do indeed have the development of Estonian language technology. Secondly, the Media Services Act also expects further improvements in the sense that besides national broadcasting there are also private channels, this technology must also reach them and, before that, it must be understood that these people also exist and that they could be a part of everything. Private channels are profitable, so it's like a market failure. This is where the Media Services Act may have to push this concept a little harder. But I am convinced of the optimist in this regard that much can also be done with explanations. One of the important roles of this bill is to do explaining work, involving people and showing the areas of pain.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U64	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said that sign language is part of Estonian and Estonian...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U66	An independent part, yes, but Estonian is in development. In what way has the Minister of Education and Science and the University justified the failure to provide higher education at the university?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U67	An independent part.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U68	That's a good question. The reason is very simple: just the entrants, those students who would like to fully devote themselves to learning sign language, who would be future sign language developers, sign language practitioners and, in turn, teachers of sign language students, and who would also scientifically develop this language, are really few. We're about to get to the root causes of why there aren't enough. One thing is that our society is small. The second is that the funding of sign language interpreters is very inadequate. Sign - language translators, at least so far, had to move from one place to another: to a doctor with one deaf person, to another deaf school, to a third place with a deaf person. They had to move between cities. The current financing principle does not cover these journeys or empty movements. It's like one question, funding principles. The second is that it is currently mainly financed from the local government budget. For example, in Tallinn, the sign language budget, which the deaf can use, is calculated as two hours per month. That's the volume they're counting on, this two hours a month, it's kind of stuck in there. I still hear I have this and this, I have to consider this, this and this. Let's imagine this is one more factor, so where I can use it now, so much at the doctor's, so much for some kind of service. That's one of the brakes that society has. But the main reason they stopped teaching was because these people didn't come. The field or profession of sign language interpreter needs to be valued for people or students. At the moment, the solution is that sign language or sign language can be studied as a side matter, but that is not it. When a person learns as a side matter, he or she goes to work in the future according to basic training and works as a sign - language interpreter. Doesn't sound logical. The sign - language interpreter should still be full - time for the interpreters. There's probably a lot of thinking around here. I am really looking forward to the results of the April Social Ministry's survey on what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U69	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U70	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, George! I have listened carefully, and it has only confirmed my conviction that you are standing up for the right thing. As it turned out in your report and your answers, not technology, but will is an obstacle. Personally, I am convinced that the obstacle in this matter is not money either, that it is a matter of will. Please, tell me what else you think could be done to open the eyes of people who are decision-makers and who do not yet have sufficient will today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U71	Thank you, good questioner! Really, that's good to hear. Yes, in this respect, I do agree that the will and motivation to deal with it are very important here. But I don't think there's any other way to open your eyes than to keep things in sight all the time, the subject needs to be kept up. The Prime Minister will be here tomorrow for briefing, and I will ask him questions about this. I ask why the government doesn't have that good will. But yes, this is a subject that we have to deal with all the time because the deaf are cut off from our society, they themselves cannot deal with it, so someone has to stand up for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U72	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear George! I feel kind of good, it's kind of like an alarm clock. I don't have a question for you, but I'd rather thank you for opening up this subject and standing up for it. In fact, I would like to call on the people of Estonia, so that we can be much more solidarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U74	Thank you, Kristina.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U75	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U76	Good manager! Good waitress! Yeah, it's a very good bill, I repeat. But of course, people with hearing disabilities don't hear radio broadcasts, and even if they don't get part of the TV news, the newspapers are expensive, reading many stories costs, how do people with hearing impairments understand what is going on in the Republic of Estonia today? So they're reading books, aren't they?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U77	Thank you very much. First of all, the situation that people with hearing disabilities don't listen to the radio and don't watch TV, I'll explain a little bit. Here it is that whether you understand or not depends on the level of hearing, and that depends very much on how you talk about whether, for example, it is possible to read a dictator on TV, whether he is in direct view, etc. In short, under certain conditions it is possible to understand, but it is very strenuous. Now, if we're technically talking about this, aren't we hearing, they're actually hearing a voice? But the question is the ability to distinguish sounds, the ability to distinguish words, the ability to distinguish texts. This is in no way possible for people carrying a hearing aid, the sound is different and the sounds cannot be distinguished. Indeed, that is unfortunately not possible. It's been tried and tested in medicine, but there's nothing to do, there's no solution. But, of course, about how people with hearing impairments can understand what is happening in Estonia or society: yes, we also have alternatives, there were and there are newspapers, including books, and now digital platforms have textual information transmitters on social media. If badly needed, these same machine translation programs are able to convert speech into text on the radio, even there you can read what you are talking about. So there are alternative options, but that means an additional effort to get the information back. Such an opportunity, for example, that a person with hearing impairment drives his car from work to home, and during that time he has a great deal! the events of the day have all been heard as a "bonus," and he can decide on the basis of this whether he thinks that Estonia's life is going in the right direction or not going in the right direction, and he can make his own personal decisions, is not. He goes home and then has to start looking at it, he takes a cell phone or a computer and reads about what news and what happened during the day in society or in an area that is important to him, for example, in sports.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U78	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U79	Thank you, manager. Good waitress George! You were a big player in the world of sports, but as a politician, you can defend your positions very well. Here's what I'm gonna ask. All citizens should have equal opportunities and equal rights. Have you addressed this question to the Chancellor of Justice? How many people are really involved in this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U80	The pace is very fast.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U81	How many really are involved in this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U82	Thank you. I'll start with this second, numerical side. It's impossible to say how many people he touches very precisely. This can be said from various studies, but generally from major international organisations, the World Health Organisation and other studies, sign language deaf people are considered to be 0.1% in society. So the size of Estonian society is 1300 people. But when we're talking about hearing impaired people, it's important to make a distinction whether we're just talking about a person with hearing loss who's gotten worse than a normal level of hearing, or a person with hearing impairment who has 30 decibels falling at regular frequencies, if he can't do without hearing aid or rehabilitation. Here, too, data are relatively estimated, at 10 to 20% of society according to different surveys, depending on the level. That's a lot of numbers. When we look at the amount of hearing-damaging noise and the fact that young people's hearing health is not always the best, continuous hours of exposure in the noise environment, we know that it will only increase in the future. That is, of course, worrying. On the other hand, hearing rehab, hearing aids. I dare say that there are considerably fewer people who have received help than those who really need it. That's the other part of the subject now. As far as the Chancellor of Justice is concerned, yes, I have discussed this with the Chancellor of Justice myself, both with him and with the people of the institution. From the beginning of last year, if I am not mistaken, the Chancellor of Justice will be our guardian of the rights of persons with disabilities and responsible, his administration will have this responsibility. Last year, the Government of the Republic finally convened an Accessibility Task Force, where the institution of the Chancellor of Justice is also active. The problem with this task force is firstly that its results are expected only by 2023, which is no longer the case with the current government. But I still wanted to explain about the Chancellor of Justice that my expectation is that, and I have said so myself to the associations of people with hearing impairments, so that they could create different precedents by addressing the Chancellor of Justice. Look, it's just another psychological obstacle. So far, I don't think they've turned. But this is one place where somebody should be brave enough to pull themselves together and, with the support of the organisations, make such an appeal or a statement to the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U83	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now I ask Marko Šorini, member of the Committee on Culture, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U84	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture requested opinions from four institutions: the Estonian National Broadcasting, the Government of the Republic, the Social Affairs Committee and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. The opinion of the Government of the Republic was largely based on the opinion of the ERR, and you will probably understand why. And if, with questions here, the background was created, as if the position of the Government of the Republic were negative, then, according to written opinions, that is not quite the way to say it. ERR pointed out that they are basically in favour of convergence and that they transmit the expression to the maximum extent possible here, too, have repeatedly used their programmes in sign language or subtitles, regardless of the term used in law. Rather, they pointed out that the transition to sign language could only take place with the introduction of new technologies, but these technologies are not available to the ERR today. They consider it important that a substantial increase in the number of sign language-enabled programmes, without prejudice to other rights and interests, is possible only if new technological solutions are introduced. The Government of the Republic also relied on this in a letter sent by the Minister of Culture. On 16 January, the Government of the Republic decided to support the draft objective of increasing access to audiovisual media services, but decided not to support a specific draft. It could have formed the background that was used here during the questions. The Government of the Republic also stated in its letter that access to audiovisual media has been under discussion in Europe at large. In 2018, a Directive was adopted to continuously and progressively improve accessibility for persons with disabilities through proportionate measures. The Directive's obligations are expected to be transposed into the Media Services Act by September 2020. A task force has been set up at the State Chancellery, which was also discussed by the previous speaker, but their work has not yet begun. The opinion points out that there are no known automated solutions, which in any case entail costs which have not been included in the ERR budget today. The ERR has stated that they are not opposed to change and will continue to make programmes available as far as possible, regardless of the term used in the law. The provision of sign language translation requires the introduction of new technological solutions. This technology also requires operators to transfer larger volumes of data. It turns out that in order to transmit the Estonian sign language translation, it is also a question of data traffic volumes, because the ERR produces essentially a new audiovisual programme, as a repeat. This solution could be a new technological step if there were some equipment at home that would translate using a smaller volume of data. It wasn't written here, it was just an addition. Today, the ERR produces a new audiovisual work in essence, so the addition of sign language translation to programmes is not limited to the remuneration of sign language interpreters at some additional cost, as stated in the draft. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft at its meeting on 21 January. At the meeting, it was pointed out that the development of ERR technology would require tools to cover the maintenance of a channel with sufficient data transmission capacity. The annual maintenance cost has already been mentioned here at EUR 300000 per year. But it is not the only cost, in addition to translation and editing, there are other costs involved, but it will certainly be preceded by an investment in technology if it exists in the world. It was also pointed out that the technological readiness of operators is unknown today. The Commission supported access and the allocation of funds in the state budget negotiations. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People delivered its opinion on 12 February. They have co-ordinated their opinion with the Estonian Association of Hearers and the Estonian Federation of Deaf. It also states that it is estimated that there are 1300 sign language deaf people in Estonia. This is based on an international assessment that 0.1% of the population are sign language deaf. They also pointed out that the news is regularly broadcast only in Estonian sign language, it is very popular in the deaf community, in other cases the activity is rather irregular or random. Their position coincides with the wording of today's law that, as far as possible, it should be made available to the maximum extent possible. They also proposed that the Media Services Act should include a clause obliging the volume of subtitles to increase by 5% and sign language translation by 1% each year. It was specifically emphasised in its letter that such an approach should also concern private channels. The Committee on Culture discussed this issue in two sessions. The first of these took place on 18 February, attended by Jüri Jaanson, representative of the initiators of the draft, and also by Mati Kaalep, audiovisual adviser to the Arts Department of the Ministry of Culture. Jüri Jaanson explained the specific characteristics of the social group concerned in the draft. For example, this is not a homogeneous group, a clear distinction must be made between hearing impaired persons and missing hearing people who use different options. Most people read subtitles, but some have insufficient subtitles, and they need sign language. At the same time, the representative of the initiators of the draft welcomed the fact that the topic of greater involvement of people with disabilities has found a broader approach at the level of the Riigikogu. The representative of the Ministry explained the views of the Ministry and the ERR, which are overlapping in substance. It expects media service providers to draw up action plans to increase accessibility. Several members of the Commission expressed their support for the subject at large in their speeches and issues. It also raised the issue of the practice of neighbouring countries. The summary was sent by Jüri Jaanson by e-mail to the members of the Commission and there was an overview of a large number of countries, but it turns out that there is no common approach and practice and there are very different approaches. There was also talk about ERR programmes that are currently equipped with subtitles and/or sign language translation. Increase in the number of people directly affected. This is once again the same as internationally evaluated 0.1% of the population. At the end of the Commission meeting, it was decided that a representative of the ERR would be invited to the next meeting. The next meeting was held on 25 February, with Urmas Oru, Member of the Board of the ERR, other than the members of the Commission and the representative of the initiators of the draft. Urmas Oru explained that step by step progress has been made in the right direction. According to the valley, sign language translation is much more complex than that happening around subtitles and would require a technological solution by both ERR and cable operators. There are three sides to the viewer's viewer's view: the TV channel, the "intermediate tube" or cable operators and the TV viewer's home setting. The valley said that there is no coherent and clear solution today, especially for sign language, and that there is still progress. The ideal solution would be a technologically standardised solution that would not depend on the ERR. Next, the issue was both the possibilities for subtitling and the capacity of operators. The representative of the ERR introduced the current situation regarding the availability of programmes for hearing impaired and missing persons. He explained that a new automated solution would have to be found to take the next leap. The current situation in which a new audiovisual work is being produced does not allow for a new leap of development. When the questions were exhausted, procedural decisions were taken, which is why I am presenting this draft here before you today, and it was also decided that the first reading should be closed and the deadline for submitting amendments in accordance with the law is ten working days. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U85	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U86	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that the Committee on Culture has reached such a consensual decision. Madam waitress, you started your presentation by interpreting the decision of the Government of the Republic and finally made it clear that the position of the Government of the Republic on this draft was negative. On the other hand, in fact, the Government of the Republic strongly supports the availability of audiovisual media services to people with hearing impairments. Yeah, I agree! I ask you for the continuation of this interpretation in what way this bill prevents or interferes with increasing audiovisual accessibility among people with hearing impairments. Then why isn't the Government of the Republic supporting this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U87	Thank you for your question. In order not to remain in the air if someone interpreted and how much, I read the first paragraph of the reply of the Government of the Republic: 'The Government of the Republic discussed the draft Act amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act (122 SE) initiated by the Estonian Reform Party at its meeting on 16 January 2020. The Government of the Republic decided to support the objective of the draft to increase the accessibility of audiovisual media services, but not to support a specific draft. " Maybe I didn't interpret, but I took both sides of the sentence from that first paragraph. In general, the Government of the Republic believes that access to audiovisual media services must be increased, but they do not support a specific draft. That's what I meant. But since it was more of a question in this Chamber that created this situation, maybe I interpreted these questioners instead. A background was created as if the whole attitude towards this topic had been negative. It certainly wasn't, it's my personal opinion. It is now likely for listeners and viewers to decide who interpreted it and how they interpret it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U88	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have now mentioned a number of annual numbers and deadlines in your presentation: 2018 the European Union adopted a directive on this topic, by September this year the draft law on media services should be completed (I think it concerns Estonia, I understand). But technologically, new solutions are expected so as not to translate sign language into "all expected programmes" in the current technical form, right, because then the budget would be large and so on. Can you specify when these new technological solutions could come by looking at this whole framework, law, technology, etc.? Can you give me a deadline?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U90	Thank you! Of course, you're very provoking me to say deadlines. I'm not thinking negative at all, I'm thinking very positive. As I dealt with the same topic both in the Commission and in the preparation of these materials in advance so that I could come to this remote control, I came up with exactly the same question in my head and thought finally reached the point of artificial intelligence, what is now being developed in the world. That is what I said in my presentation, indeed, was my sentence, which I had skipped, so that the technical solution would probably be cheaper than the sign language interpreter, namely if the robot or smart device were in the homes of those in need. Then the volume of data would be independent, certainly the volume of data could be smaller, it would be basically like the subtitle line that this device or artificial intelligence receives and translates at home to someone who needs sign language. But I'm not so familiar with the technology today. I also could not find on the Internet whether sign language simulators were available, all the more so since it turned out from the previous presentation that although it is an Estonian sign language, the sign language structure is so different in grammatical terms that apparently someone speaking ordinary language must translate sign language. So this technological solution is certainly very complex. I am sure that this will be achieved one day, for example in the case of simpler languages internationally, but we hope that indeed in the case of our most beloved language, the Estonian language, we will come to that. Whether we see it for ourselves, I dare not confirm it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U91	Riina Sikkut, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U92	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There are two options for many of these insurmountable concerns. We can expect this ideal and smart solution to come with waste-free nuclear power or hydrogen technology, and as long as there is no, we will do nothing to move towards green energy, or we can expect this robot to sign all of the world's sign languages, and as long as it is not, we will do nothing. At the same time, we can start taking small steps now. I think it's one of those types of bill. As Jüri Jaanson reported, this does not mean that we must have all ERR's own broadcasts on 1 April 2020 with subtitles and sign language translation, but the maximum possible should be done: indeed, in the case of speeches by the Heads of State, put an interpreter of sign language aside, put subtitles on even 'Happy 13' or 'Actual camera', for such individual key programmes. How do you personally think we have to wait for a technological miracle, or could we start taking these little steps tomorrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U93	Thank you for your question. I'm sure my last answer wasn't that we're now waiting for this miracle robot or artificial intelligence. Of course, I am in favour of this approach that accessibility must be available to as many people as possible, despite even their trees, if we take other trees along these lines that people may have. The ERR has also pointed out in its letter that today, no matter what we decide in this Chamber, we change the word in the law or do not change the sign language translation to the extent they already transmit, and also use subtitles. This certainly does not mean that we are waiting passively for the world to revolve around us and that this technological solution will plant us in our lap one day. Everything we can do, what the current technology allows, even by adding small steps to each year, I support that in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U94	Jüri Jaanson, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U95	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I sincerely welcome the people of Estonian National Broadcasting. Of course, they also do a grateful job for people with hearing impairments without any law. This legislative amendment is needed primarily by the legislator itself and is also needed in the interests of a better understanding of society. But I still want to ask you this. You mentioned the new version of the media services law that emerges in the autumn before you spoke, the addition to it, which improves accessibility. I would point out that the Media Services Act applies to all the media that exists. The Estonian National Broadcasting Act concerns national broadcasting. Will there be a newer kind of solution to changes in the laws on media services by autumn, compared to the current Estonian National Broadcasting Act, will the so-called smart and intelligent solution be ready by then, which will enable this law to be passed, but the current law must be rejected by the government? What is the difference, though, that one improves access to the deaf in a vital or better way? Can you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U96	Yes, it has to be said here, of course, that this comparison between the future Media Services Act and the draft under consideration was not made in the Commission, but it turned out between the lines that this law, which will probably be in the course of the autumn, is more versatile than the current draft. But certainly, as the ERR said again, no matter what words we use in laws or drafts, new technological solutions are not produced here. However, it has always been the case that the general attitude is as far as possible. Someone in his question used the expression.......... suddenly it was Mr Sutt that there was a will, but we also have to get to action. That would probably be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U97	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. Now we have the opportunity to open negotiations. The negotiations can be held by representatives of the political groups and the request has been made. Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U98	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to start by saying thank you to George. Thank you for being a very good member of the Social Affairs Committee in the previous composition and supporting the opposition when I was the leader of the Commission and we discussed different laws. Your position didn't depend on your seat, you were always willing to speak for people and speak for them. I am indeed very pleased that this draft was initiated by the Reform Party Group and was supported and understood by the Committee on Social Affairs in a broad consensus. I am quite convinced that I have reason to hope, because on a number of occasions, when the government's position is like a principle-supporting, but not specifically pro-drafting, this great hall has voted differently. On the basis of close memory: the increase in the allowance for children with disabilities was also possible only because all parties and ambassadors in this Chamber realised that there was a need to increase the support that remained unchanged for 14 years. We took a moderate pace, did not immediately increase it from 1 July, which would not have had the funds, but we did so from 1 January this year. I also welcome the fact that on 3 March I participated with you on the world day of hearing or, as Avo-Rein Tereping said in a very good article, on the day of ear health, where it was also said that 20 years of internal ear implants were done in Estonia, it was said how much medicine has developed, but it was also said that every person has at least the right to access information. The Social Democrats, of course, support the proposed draft; there is no doubt about that. I just have a few thoughts. I've heard a lot of people talk about this remote control that on 29 September 2019 an accessibility task force was set up for the government. It's been five months, this task force hasn't been together. In 2015 I was Minister of Social Protection. I think it was one of my last signatures as a minister that a separate supporting committee, or accessibility forum, would be set up with the Minister for Social Affairs. Different ministers have used this tool or the wisdom of these people differently. In recognition, I can say that all Estonian unemployment funds were repaired and construction features were introduced. Today we are only talking about one step on this road that actually needs access. After all, there are different groups of trees and people have different needs; everyone has the right to information. As a result, an accessibility forum for the Minister would already be set up for the Ministry in 2015 as a very, very good tool, as well as the wisdom these people have. Just listen, write it down and start finding the money. It is very nice that there is now an accessibility task force with the government, but the fact that five months have not been together is, of course, very sad. Finally. The Social Democrats certainly support this bill. We are certainly not saying that nothing has been done, on the contrary, much has been done. The fact that programmes are already duplicated is also excellent, and the translation of sign language is excellent. But there is little, given that the whole world and life are evolving, these people have the right to have the rights that everyone else has. Perhaps quite finally, in 2015 the first Estonian translators received training in the Finnish country. This was done very simply: Jüri and a few others came to the minister, who was me this time, were personal meetings with Finnish school leaders, and the first written interpreters were trained in Finland, and today they all work. So, friends, let's be brave, dream big, and then there's gonna be a change. If we can't do the whole thing, we'll do at least half. Let's set a time for what step we're going to take. Thank you again to George! I count on the warm support of all my fellow Members for the draft proposed by the Reform Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U99	Jüri Jaanson, please, for the Reform Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U100	First of all, I thank Helmen for his good words, I thank everyone who has participated in this debate, I thank the Committee on Culture once again, I thank the Social Affairs Committee once again, I thank the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for the opportunity created for direct translation. Indeed, Helmen used quite the right words at the end of our literature classics that if we still can't do everything, let's do half. With these small steps, we can gradually move towards the desired end result. It's very important. It is also important to send positive signals to target groups. It is important for them, it is important for ordinary society, it is important in terms of coherence. Now, when I talk about hearing a little bit, hearing is, however, an important factor in our information society, through which we actually exchange absolutely the largest amount of information, it is at school, at work, anywhere. If it's cut, the exchange of information won't work, no matter how fancy the other variables are. So hearing rehabilitation and faith in it are very important. The big point of this draft is precisely to bring into the law this small group, which has unfortunately been overlooked so far in the Estonian National Broadcasting Act. Once again, he has not been overlooked in real life, but he has been ignored in law. I'm done with that. Thank you very much. Thank you very much to everyone who took part in the first reading of this bill by means of a webcam! I hope that I will look very soon at the Committee on Culture and we will discuss this law further here at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-03-10_U101	Thank you. There are no more requests to speak in the negotiations. So let's consider the negotiations to be over. We have a proposal from the lead committee to conclude the first reading of draft 122. No other proposal has been received, no vote is requested, so the first reading is closed and the deadline for submitting amendments is 24 March at 5.15 p.m. Thank you very much, everyone. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.15 p.m.
