ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 11th working week. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? There is no request for referral of drafts and enquiries. Then the presence check, please! 64 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, there are no 37.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, initiated by the National Defence Commission. I would like Mr Rimmel, member of the Economic Commission, to serve as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Protocol No 42 to the meeting of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, drawn up on 16 March, deals with 138 discussions on the draft law amending the law on electronic communications initiated by the National Defence Committee, which took place before the draft was sent to second reading. In addition to members of the Economic Commission, an advisor to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Raul Rikk, Head of State Cyber Security Policy, was invited. During the discussion Sven Sester explained first that a special meeting of the working group on the draft law amending the law on electronic communications took place on 11 March. He stressed that the Riigikogu does not have the right to make regulations, but the draft law gives the Government of the Republic of Riigikogu the opportunity to issue a decree. Kalev Kallo pointed out that it was customary in previous Economic Commissions to require the initiators to include a draft regulation in the draft. According to Sven Sester, the draft regulation has to be submitted when the draft is initiated by the Government of the Republic. This bill has been initiated by the National Defence Commission. Raul Rikk added that when the National Defence Commission initiated this draft law, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was also asked to have the first concept of the regulation, which was also communicated to them. However, it has so far changed considerably in cooperation with companies, with the aim being to alleviate the administrative obligations of companies. In addition, there was an interest as to whether it would be possible to amend the government regulation at a later stage. It was answered that the Government of the Republic was able to amend the Regulation. The text of the regulation, which is annexed to the draft regulation, is a draft regulation to be included by the government when it has initiated the draft regulation. In this particular case, if the Government of the Republic is given the opportunity to introduce a regulation, the Government will not be obliged to introduce a regulation if the law is adopted. Raul Rikk also added that the wording of the mandate rule states that the Government of the Republic may implement the notification and authorisation procedure. The need for a regulation and its precise content depends on the national security situation. Should this need change in the future, there may also be a need for regulations with different content or no longer need to implement the current Regulation. During the procedure of this draft law, several parties, such as Huawei Technologies OÜ, Telia Estonia and Elisa Estonia, expressed their views to the Economic Commission. And since the draft was initiated by the Riigikogu commission, the opinion of the Government of the Republic was also sought. The opinion of the Government of the Republic was supportive, but a proposal was made to amend the wording of the draft. At its meeting on 11 February, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to ask the Special Committee on the supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu for an opinion, which in turn asked the Defence Police and Foreign Intelligence Board for input. Since the draft is the most important for Estonia's security, everyone interviewed has given their feedback on this draft and the draft has been approved by all of them. During the discussion, the Government of the Republic's proposal to amend the wording of the draft was also discussed. Paragraph 11 (41) of the Electronic Communications Act was proposed to be amended in paragraph 1 and worded as follows: 'In the case referred to in paragraphs 21 and 22 of § 87 of this Act, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority makes the frequency authorisation subject to the obligation to use only hardware and software for which the obligation to notify has been fulfilled or for which authorisation to use has been granted in accordance with the above paragraphs. To clarify: the wording of the provision needs to be amended with regard to the replacement of the coordination procedure with regard to the notification and authorisation procedure. Next, point 1.2. proposes that paragraph 2 of the draft be amended and worded as follows:'(2) Paragraph 87 is supplemented by paragraphs 21 and 22 as follows:'((21) The Government of the Republic may, in order to ensure the security of the State, impose an obligation on the communication undertaking to notify the hardware and software used in the communication network. The obligation to notify and the procedure for notification shall be established and the authority to be notified shall be determined by the Government of the Republic by means of a regulation. (22) 'The Government of the Republic may, in order to ensure the security of the State, impose an obligation on the communication undertaking to obtain authorisation for the use of the hardware and software of the communication network. The obligation to apply for the permit and the procedure for applying for the permit shall be established and determined by the Government of the Republic by regulation. ' To clarify: the amendment follows from the opinion delivered by the Government of the Republic on the draft law amending the Law on electronic communications. The procedure for coordinating hardware and software provided for in the draft is essentially a permit procedure and therefore an administrative procedure. In accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, the coordination of administrative procedures is understood in accordance with § 16, i.e. as the activity of another administrative body within the framework of the main administrative procedure. Therefore, in order to avoid possible terminological confusion, the wording 'coordination' should not be used, but 'information and authorisation procedures'. In addition to the authorisation rule of the authorisation procedure, the amendments also introduce an authorisation rule to provide for a notification procedure because the technology used, including for example the technology used today, may not need to be subject to an authorisation obligation. In order to ensure national security, it may be sufficient for the state to become aware of the technology in use and, consequently, to assess whether it is necessary to redefine the topics to mitigate the serious risks and to require information or authorisation. As the lead committee, the Economic Commission decided to take this change fully into account. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 23 March 2020, that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed. All decisions have been taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U4	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U5	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! First of all, the draft has improved considerably during the procedure. We give a broad mandate to Parliament and to the government as a parliament. Do you also have an overview of the cost to the state of implementing this bill? We know that the people who have to deal with these different procedures will require a high level of qualifications in this task. In addition, possible compensation in relation to any technology that appears to be a threat to security. Are certain costs to be taken into account in the 2021 budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U6	Thank you. These issues were not directly discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. What an impact analysis at the special meeting, which was with all the parties involved, was under discussion. I'm sure there'll be some kind of public expenditure for that. However, since today there is no regulation of the Government of the Republic on exactly what measures are being taken, it is not possible to assess all aspects financially.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U7	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U8	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Aivar said this bill is much better now than it was before. I would say that the short draft has changed or changed beyond recognition. Two points there were and now both have been changed to a was like having a first reading. But I honestly didn't get it, you read the minutes of the Economic Commission on paper and relatively bumpy. Perhaps you could explain in your own words the difference between the first version and the second version that is now before us?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U9	In the first version, it was explicitly written 'coordination obligation', and today it is written 'information and authorisation procedure'. According to the Republic's Regulation which is being developed, the notification or authorisation procedure for the different companies will be determined according to the technology they have used or plan to use to date for the development of their 5G.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U10	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U11	Thank you! Honourable waitress! I will continue with Mr Koka's question. Surely one question is how many people the country has to hire to do so. But as I read in the telecoms opinions, they confirm that they already have a relatively large-scale package of investments in their hardware. I am not familiar with this area, but I am very impressed by your reply that the Commission has not dealt directly with this issue. However, when it comes to the hundreds of millions of euros invested, the committees involved in this draft could take seriously the question of the extent to which damages can be paid by the State to the companies that have already invested. So I ask you again: has this issue been discussed in depth? I hope you were wrong in your first answer. And when discussed, where did this debate come to: what is the risk and what are the potential amounts?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U12	From the point of view of the Economic Commission, I can say that I was not wrong. This draft does not address this issue. This draft concerns the authorisation of the Government of the Republic so that it can draw up a regulation with a corresponding content. However, financial impact analyses were discussed at a special meeting of our Commission, where all the parties, including Huawei Technologies, Elisa and Telia, were present. The investments they made were also under discussion there. We understand that investments have been made and that there has been hope of developing this 5G further. It's an opportunity, not an obligation. And this is already an agreement between the Government of the Republic and all the other parties, according to the regulation, on how they resolve these matters, whether the financial side will be resolved and, if so, to what extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U13	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U14	Good manager! Good waitress! We remember that in this Riigikogu, when the Foreign Intelligence Office in the briif was dealing with the Huawei bill, Marko Pomerants, the lobbyist of Huawei, was sitting there listening. My question is: on 11 March, when Huawei was represented in the Committee on Economic Affairs, was Mr Marko Pomerants there too?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U15	Thank you for your question. No, it wasn't. There were people from the Huawi law firm.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U16	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U17	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! I come to this amendment that the coordination procedure is intended to replace the notification procedure or the authorisation procedure. This is an administrative procedure. I understand that this administrative body is still this council, which is made up of specialists. And if, now, in the context of its notification or authorisation procedure, there is a situation in which the Advisory Board gives its negative opinion that this technology may not be used in our communications networks, what will be the consequence if this company decides to challenge this substantive assessment? Whom does he have to appeal to in this case, and how will this process proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U18	This issue was not directly addressed at the meeting. The answer would be so much that the Government of the Republic Regulation describes the conditions under which companies are to be given a request for notification or authorisation. And according to this regulation, the steps taken by the parties will also be followed, depending on what solutions are possible for them. However, it has not been written here anywhere that it will be discussed by the council. The decree of the Government of the Republic designates the company that will "manage" these companies and check their suitability and issue permits to them, including the involvement of other agencies where there is a need, be it the Police Department, the Defence Police or the Foreign Intelligence Service.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U19	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U20	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Maybe you'll fix me, but according to my memory, at the time of the first reading of the bill, there was a Minister Bear's decree. Now I understand that the Minister has basically annulled this regulation and there is no new regulation. But yes, we have had the principle that if there is a draft coming from the government, we would like to see the regulation before the third reading. However, since this draft has very important consequences and we are giving very large rights to the government, did you also have a debate in the Commission, do we, however, see this regulation before the third reading? How far is this regulation going? And why was the previous regulation called back? Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U21	Mr Riki explained that the so-called draft of this regulation was presented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to the government for inspection. After that, they had negotiations with different parties, which led to a virtually 100% change in this regulation, and now it certainly needs to be redrafted on the basis of a new draft. Whether the final version of the Regulation was presented before the third reading was not discussed at that meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U22	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U23	Thank you. I also come to the financial dimension of the draft. We understand that, in terms of democracy, we are giving up Parliament's right to the government. We give the government a very high degree of authority. I have two questions. After this bill becomes law, can we be sure that Huawei will never be able to access our telecommunications communications networks again? And the second question: is there a threshold for pain? Has anyone discussed how much this could cost the country if we say that we are putting a stop and we do not demand that Huawei be turned off on completely unjustified grounds, in my opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U24	Different parties, Elisa and Telia have made different investments. Elisa's basically all based on Huawei, Telia's part. And according to their estimate, let's just say that, according to a gross estimate, if they want the maximum loss compensation, and they are obliged to replace their equipment immediately, the state's losses should amount to about 15 million. That's their assessment of what we've been talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U25	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! On the basis of the questions I have heard here today, it can be concluded that I do not think that this bill has been read. And in this respect, I would like to say that in this draft that we are dealing with today, we are not dealing with a regulation. We must not legally deal with regulations as legislators; this is someone else's competence. We don't do frequency clearances, we don't do component analysis. What we are doing: we are giving the government the right to coordinate the regulation in the future, to issue the regulation. Do they make it to who, in which components, this is already the government's responsibility? We only give the authority. I would like to know whether you have understood, as I have, that our aim is not to analyse the effects now, because we also do not know what this potential regulation will be like in the future. You can't analyze something that doesn't exist yet. Please evaluate my approach, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U27	If that was now a question for me, then I am one hundred percent of the same. We will give the Government of the Republic this power of attorney, and everything else is already related to this regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U28	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U29	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Anyone who examines the draft procedure online will notice that there is a draft implementing act which, in general, according to the legislative principles, is usually required to have at least some kind of overview on the basis of which to assess the possible effects of the draft. That's a clue. Secondly, I will continue with Mr Metsoja's question. Maybe you'll explain that. If there is a dispute over the potential technologies for which the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority is asking different security authorities, will the Cyber Security Board, which is an entity of the Government Security Commission, say so, under the authority or with the MKM, be contacted?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U30	Yeah, sure. It says here that if there are technological application issues and additional information is needed, different agencies will be contacted as well as national defence and cyber security companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U31	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U32	Thank you. I was astonished by Mr Sester's opinion that since the actual decisions are made on the basis of a regulation that is the work of the executive, the legislator should not be bothered with such a minor task. And it's sounded like you too. It is about the same logic if someone in this Chamber proposed to restore the death penalty, saying that we do not need to appreciate what this will bring in practice, because we are not going to send these people to their deaths, it is on the basis of government regulations and judgments. That certainly is not an appropriate logic. Since this draft law has been initiated in Parliament, it is Parliament's duty and duty to consider all possible consequences, to discuss them. And so I ask my first question to continue with the second question. What is your assessment, as a draft waitress and responsible person, of the maximum amount of state-reimbursable damage that the taxpayer will have to bear? I am not saying that it should not be done, that it is a bad law, etc., but we need to know how much the country potentially has to spend on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U33	As I said before, in this special committee or special meeting, where we sat with the various parties, a sum of 15 million was raised. This is the hypothetical amount if 100% of the investments already made are to be reimbursed, because the equipment must be taken off and replaced immediately by new ones. It was also proposed that this should be done within 10 to 15 years of the depreciation of the existing equipment network. In this case, it does not entail such high costs for the State. This, however, must be decided by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority from the point of view of the security of the state and already according to the decree of the Government of the Republic, which equipment is suitable and which is a threat to the security of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U34	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U35	Thank you. However, I would like to clarify the issue of this regulation. I understand that we have some kind of draft regulation in the project processing information system. In answering Mr Randpere's question, you said that this original regulation has now been completely revised or that this new version does not exist at all. I agree with this that good legislative practice involves Parliament not simply approving a draft law. However, since practically no other changes than linguistic corrections can be made between second and third readings, we also need to know the draft implementing act at second reading. Then we know what we are voting for. If this draft implementing act does not exist at the moment, according to your words, or if there is a misguided or incorrect draft in the draft processing system, the only logical solution would be that we are currently interrupting this reading, or interrupting the second reading. The Commission will put in place the right design of the draft procedure system and then we will be able to move on with it. My question to you is simple: did the Commission discuss the idea of stopping second reading if there is no draft implementing act available to us now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U36	This was not discussed by the Commission. If you ask what we are voting on today, we will vote on a draft law aimed at empowering the Government of the Republic to develop a final regulation on the basis of which the suitability of these electronic devices will be assessed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U37	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U38	Good manager! Good waitress! We all know, in fact, that this is a draft of Huawei's rejection, and it's ordered by the Foreign Intelligence Service. You were just talking about Elisa and their investments, but what did Huawei's representative on the committee just say in more detail? I read that their opinion on the amendments was not heard at a later stage. Can I have a briefing, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U39	In principle, the representative of Huawei made comments that there might be a contradiction with the Constitution, as the draft is intended to give the Government of the Republic an essentially unlimited mandate to decide whether to impose a coordination requirement, as well as the scope of this coordination requirement. However, there is no doubt that the coordination requirement imposed on an entrepreneur entails a restriction on the freedom of business of an entrepreneur, so the proposed mandate of the Government of the Republic is not contrary to the Constitution. But that was their first objection. In its opinion of 3 March, the Government of the Republic recommended that, instead of the co-ordination procedure proposed in the original draft, the Riigikogu would be more terminologically correct and also more relevant to the violation of the rights of entrepreneurs if the Riigikogu would give the Government of the Republic a mandate rule which would allow the government to impose on the communication undertaking, first, on the communication undertaking the obligation to notify the hardware and software used on the communication network and, secondly, to apply for authorisation of the use of hardware and software. But that was the first Huawei's position that was raised. According to them, there is no analysis as to whether, instead of such a general mandate rule, the principles of coordination should not be laid down at the level of the law. The mandatory coordination requirement for a communications operator limits the activities of market players, and thus limits the freedom to conduct a business. On the basis of the security analysis of the security authorities, the Government of the Republic shall specify the content of the information and authorisation obligations, establish a list of the information to be provided by the company within the framework of the notification and authorisation obligations, and regulate the procedure for the notification and authorisation application procedure, which is given in response by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In addition, when analysing the impact of Huawei, Huawei pointed out that, in view of the above, Huawei also expects the Economic Commission to carry out a thorough impact analysis on the issues referred to above. In the light of the impact analyses, we ask for clear, understandable, proportionate and non-discriminatory standards to be established at law level, which in practice also contribute to a high level of security of communications networks and from which market participants can plan their activities accordingly. An economic impact analysis can be carried out when the Government of the Republic regulation is issued, if it is known how narrowly the obligation to notify and permit can be imposed, and information about the hardware and software they use is also available from economic operators. Since today, the state has absolutely no knowledge of the hardware and software used by our communications companies and in what percentage ratio, it is essential, above all, to highlight it from the point of view of national security and security and also to have some kind of vision of it. Those were some of Huawei's arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U40	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! As this is an urgent draft, it was also confirmed when the government brought it to the National Defence Commission for discussion. And now we are in the middle of an urgent procedure. In essence, this draft can be divided into two parts. One part concerns already built networks where the equipment is in use and the other part concerns what is intended to be built. The state wants to give guidance on whether or not the equipment is suitable. My question concerns these networks. We are saying that this is an urgent draft and, at the same time, you, too, said in your presentation that there may be time for the replacement of existing equipment for 10 to 15 years. How does this still arise in the logic of replacement, and how does price develop? Will this be the result of legal proceedings or how will this matter become clear in real life in accordance with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U42	Logic emerges from the fact that if there is some kind of technological communication network, whether it is granted permission or not for further work. In accordance with the Regulation, it will be decided from the point of view of national security whether the change will be made and, if so, within what period. Perhaps it is said that 100% of this technology cannot and must be invested immediately and start developing a new 'communication'. This, of course, results in economic losses of different sizes and companies are certainly interested in compensating for investments already made by the State in order to start a new investment. So everything really depends on this regulation, which manufacturers of "technology" equipment are declared suitable, which are inappropriate. We are here today assuming that this is the so-called Huawei law, that it only concerns Huawei's equipment, but we actually have 5G equipment manufacturers as well as Nokia and others. This check and the requirements of the Regulation must be met by all devices, not just Huawei's.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U43	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U44	I will, however, continue the subject of this regulation. I understand what this parliamentary mandate means to the Government of the Republic. This rule of authority means, according to our good legislative practice, that the Government of the Republic also tells Parliament what it wants to regulate at regulation level and how it wants to do it. In fact, therefore, the draft regulation is extremely important. Knowing this, we can decide whether or not we can give such a mandate from this Parliament. Perhaps, however, you will tell us two things specifically, on which I think Mr Ossinovski also asked: (a) the extent to which there is a concrete financial impact on the state in granting this mandate and the possible implementation of the law, and (b) which, according to your best knowledge today, the Government of the Republic wishes to regulate more specifically with this regulation? Members want to know before the vote what authority we will give to the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U45	It's very difficult to get these numbers and sums off the coffee grounds. I am still not getting over or over the figures that have sounded in this special committee, where both Elisa and Telia have highlighted their investments. Telia has indicated her maximum investment amount. Given the cost of equipment already in place, plus the investments needed for new equipment and allegedly also the market situation, this amount could amount to a maximum of 20 million. That's what they're calling it. What kind of equipment do they have, and to what extent, the state does not know about it? There can be no economic calculation of the amount of equipment to be replaced. That's what they put out. Since Elisal accounts for a lower proportion of Huawei's equipment, their "loss amount" is not significant. They were talking about five million. [[Pevkur says something about it.]] How? I'm sorry, but I really can't hear what you're saying when you don't have a microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U46	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. Valdo Randpere, please! [[Randper's asking for 20 minutes before the remote.]] Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U47	It was a good test, anyway! Ladies and gentlemen, I myself have managed to stand here quite often and defend good drafts. Now I'm here criticizing a very bad bill. Basically, I see there's a lot of people in this hall who do, let's be honest, play dumb. We don't understand what's going on, we don't know what's going on after, we don't care. But I should. Sam Seppänen, who is Elisa's executive director, I heard him speak on the radio some month and a half ago in digital class, said about this sentence: 'Fortunately today, all politicians have realised that Huawei is not a technological problem or espionage. This is part of the trade war between the United States and China. " Sam said so, and he was very wrong. I see that there are still people in this Chamber who want to give the impression that this is a technological problem, that it is somehow China and our relations, and that China and Estonia are very bad. But let's look at these relations with China a little from a historical point of view. First of all, let's start with the most important thing. The People's Republic of China, however good or bad it is, has never recognised the occupation of Estonia by the Soviet Union. So he wasn't very hostile. But let's take the recent past: I took the last yearbooks of the Foreign Intelligence Board and compared Estonia's relations. In 2016, the Foreign Intelligence Office did not write a word about China's threat. 2017 nothing again. China was still written about the South China Sea and its local problems. In 2018, China was written in relation to North Korea. At the same time, the Estonian Prime Minister met several times with his Chinese colleagues, and met both their Prime Minister and their Deputy Prime Minister. I can even read a few times when they met, and what they said. In November 2017, Jüri Ratas visited with Urve Palo, if anyone remembers who Urve Palo is in Budapest at the Chinese Business Forum, met with Chinese leaders, and Urve Palo signed three economic agreements with China: Silk Road, Digital Silk Road and e-Commerce Agreement. In fact, this digital Silk Road Agreement was supposed to be the basis for our cooperation in the development of digital technologies and the exchange of information. That was only two years ago! In 2018 Jüri Ratas met the Chinese Prime Minister in Sofia and in September 2018 Kersti Kaljulaid visited the Chinese President in Beijing. After both meetings, Estonia confirmed that the relations between the two countries are excellent. Following the meeting of the presidents, Kersti Kaljulaid said only a year and a half ago that Estonia's relations with China are now in the best position ever, and that free and unlimited international trade is the only option for small economies, and it is important for us that as many countries support it as possible. In fact, therefore, we will not find any bad sign in relations between China and Estonia until the leader of the free world, whose name I am not going to name here, started a trade war with China and took Huawei as part of it. By the way, Raivo Vare has written about this in the summer of last year, I will read to you his quote: 'In this regard, President Trump openly says that pressure is painful for China and he will give in and accept a new trade agreement under US conditions. He has also openly linked the blacklisting of Huawei, a major Chinese technology company, to pressurising the bilateral trade negotiations between countries. ' When I look at these security reports and yearbooks, one more thing stands out to me: these security authorities also have a pretty good cooperation with other countries. I read Sweden's, I read Norway's through what I said about China is frankly to say relatively copy and paste. Does any of them actually have any information...? China-Swedish relations have been very bad for various reasons: they are human rights and Swedish citizens who are stuck in China. But we, as I say with regard to history, have no proof that relations with China are very bad. Even less, we have proof that China and Huawei have some espionage issues. There has now been talk in Estonia about the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, which will evaluate it. Well, the Technical Surveillance Authority is currently struggling to decide what we have in front of us: dust cloths, dust masks or protective equipment. They can't even decide, and they'll appreciate the Huawi! At the same time, our colleagues, and not at all bad colleagues in Britain, formed two committees last year, which included prominent people in business, technology and education. And they found no technical reason not to use Huawei's resources on the 5G networks in the United Kingdom. As a result, a little while later, the United Kingdom announced, on 28 October, by the mouth of Prime Minister Boris Johnson, that Huawei 5G technology would gain access to British communications networks. We'll take other technology companies, like Microsoft. They say the exact same thing. The Department of Foreign Intelligence, as well as the kapo, if you're going to ask them if they have any technical evidence: they're saying, oh, if you knew what we had, you'd change your mind. Microsoft's leader came to America to ask the president's office and intelligence authorities what evidence they actually had about Huawei. Tell us, too, we'd like to work with them! They were told exactly the same way that we couldn't show you what we had, but if we showed you, you wouldn't want to cooperate with them. However, Microsoft claims to show us, and then we say whether or not we want to. And they also say that we're in a different value space. Even my partymates have been and talked on TV I watched that China and I are in a different value area, but look at America, because China has said that if you don't buy our Huawi, we won't buy your salmon. And at the same time, there is news that Donald Trump has told the Germans that we are not sharing information with you and that we are not buying your cars or at least paying them 25% tax. What a space of value we're talking about! This is a trade war, Estonia has been dragged into it, but we should not be. I suggest we take it easy, let's not do the third reading of this bill! Times change. Donald Trump said at his last press conference...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U48	Honourable waitress! The world is so big and wide, you can't fit in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U49	Last sentence, then. At his last press conference in the rose garden, Donald Trump said that Xi Jinping, who is then the President of China, is a very good friend of mine. We just signed a $40 billion agricultural contract with him. And I believe Donald will change his mind about Huawei. Let's just wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U50	Thank you. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We're talking about a garden hole here, not a garden. It is not a question of Huaweis, because there is no mention of it in the draft law. We are talking about what will cause problems in the future once this law is in place. I may not have understood the principle of Parliament's work correctly at all. Parliament elects the government. The Government shall be empowered to take acts which shall be adopted in accordance with the powers conferred on it by Parliament. Today we give this law a mandate to the government that we trust. And we trust the government to make those signatures that they consider dignified and correct. If these documents are not acceptable to Parliament, we will elect a new government. We are going to appoint a new government, but we are not going to talk, like here, that we are going to deal with government regulations in Parliament. That's when we're gonna keep doing the job. Let's do our job, let's not go to the government line!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U52	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U53	Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to Mr Valdo's speech, which began with the words: 'This is a very bad draft. 'Then I had some thoughts in the past, I remembered the moment I read the book 'My Life and Service at the KGB' by former security officer Vladimir Pool. I don't remember how many pages there are of Valdo Randper's memories. Before she went to Sweden with her husband, Leila Miller, she went to put flowers on Lenin's memorial. The question for me, good Valdo, is whether your interest groups have changed since then. I don't know, maybe I'm overreacting right now, but it seems to me that your vision of this draft does not coincide with the vision of the members of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U54	Thank you. Since Valdo Randpere's name was mentioned, he has the right to reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U55	Thank you. I'm glad there's still a level show going on here. Try talking about Lenin's memorial. True, unlike some of the others here, I fled the Soviet Union and committed treason, not sitting and squat here and praising up to the end. It wasn't like I changed my mind and changed my side. That's it. If we talk about this bill again, let's look around: there are other people to think about. I named Great Britain...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U56	Good colleague! I point out, the word is a reply, not a second speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U57	No, he's saying I've got company. Where are my thinkers? Don't you put words in my mouth now, Helir.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U58	But stop at the line, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U59	Yeah, I'll limit myself to the line, it'll take a while, but it's a line. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] France, Germany, Finland, all of them have gone down the road that they disobeyed the United States and have said that they are allowing the Huawi to access their networks. Are these some kind of crazy interest groups that the brothers in plastic jacket are talking about here? I honestly don't understand how stupid a person has to be. Sometimes it is said that an ostrich hides its head in the sand to avoid seeing things. That's a lie. The truth is, the ostrich has eyes bigger than the brain, and he doesn't understand everything he sees. That's my line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U60	Thank you. Colleagues, let's stick to the subject. Jürgen Ligi, is it a procedural question? No, it's not! Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U61	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, For a large number of Estonians in general, Internet problems cease to exist when spring arrives and trees go to the site, and they simply disappear in certain areas. This concern follows us year after year, especially in rural areas. But if you come to this bill, there is certainly a degree of detail in Estonia's right to look at the communications networks that take place there, which equipment is used, by its very nature. But if we were to generalise, Randper's speech about the trade war and the general global situation was also perfectly correct, and it was actually justified to report it in this Chamber. What, though, is the problem? The problem is, to a large extent, that we and Mr Savisaar and Mr Tanel Talve have been transporting the broadband support group for a very long time, and we have actually spoken in parallel with the government that Estonia needs to develop one broader communication network strategy document. We have taken steps, for example, on the ELA SA network, where 90 million of taxpayers' money has been put, and now we are actually going to make it back in a circle and say that we need to re-enact 20-25 million in order to replace the equipment. True, not all things can be predicted. We do not want to live in the crisis that we are living in today, or in an emergency situation, but yet a wise state could make a bigger plan, see as a whole how to bring the so-called last mile to the place of the citizen, so that it can carry out teleworking or e-learning there, so that the person can live and deliver, so that our security authorities can get information on what is happening on our communications networks, how they are being built and how the equipment will be quickly exchanged there, if necessary, until Parliament really discusses the concept of future communications networks in this Chamber. For example, do we need more masts in relation to 5G and will it also solve the problems of scattered settlements? It's one big whole, and actually that's what we'd expect in this hall. This emergency solution is simply a cry of trouble that we need to hear today and implement in some way by means of a mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U62	Thank you. Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U63	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I am talking about this problem on the side of security policy. It may be a matter of trade war, but it may not be. It is clear that something has been missed in Europe. However, as far as the claim that it is only the United States of America having a trade war with China is concerned, I would withdraw from it. In fact, the problem began in Australia and because Huawei's devices were intercepted, information was manipulated. And after Australia banned Huawei's equipment, it spread to Canada, spread to New Zealand and the United States. It became a security policy problem. Unlike the European Union, NATO has formulated precisely which companies are safe and which companies are problematic. As a NATO Member State, I think we need to take this into account. Point two: In this Chamber it was asked whether the state had to pay for the switch-over to new television networks. It is quite clear from the position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs that we will make a transitional period if necessary, then it will last for about ten years and will gradually pass over. The new technologies we invest in come when the time of old technologies comes to an end. So I don't see any drama here because we have to invest hundreds of millions. I would also like to say that security policy is an area where we cannot keep three, four or five best friends. Best friends can be one. And if China is not our best friend and our main security partner is the United States, then as a small country, we must take this into account. I am very sorry to repeat the truth that small people have often not been given a choice between good and bad, we sometimes also have to choose between bad and very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U64	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiations. The negotiations are over. The proposal to amend the draft has been submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 138. The second reading is closed and today's first item is under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U65	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Rescue Act and the Weapons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Jaanus Kariladi, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U66	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading at its meeting on 9 April. All members of the Committee on Legal Affairs took part and 12 amendments were drafted for the large hall. I will give an overview of the debate that took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs on these proposals. First of all, Opinion No 1, author of the Reform Party Group: delete paragraphs 9 and 10 of § 1 from the draft. Toomas Kivimägi, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, explained that it is not justified to extend the circle of persons who would have access to sensitive personal data. Access to this data would also be available to around 50 volunteers. Toomas Kivimägi said that he had information that a summary of the health information system about the person would only be prepared when the patient gets out of the hospital, so the information requested in the health information system cannot be obtained from the hospital because of an emergency situation. Helen Ojamaa-Muru, official of the Ministry of the Interior, said that the Ministry of the Interior does not support the deletion of § 1 (9) from the draft as it is the processing of general assistance information and emergency messages in a database that does not only concern the emergency information phone. The Ministry of the Interior also does not support the deletion of § 1 (10) in the Bill, as the health information system will not inherit sensitive personal data. The data collection shall be requested only if the person has been provided with health care and has been hospitalised. And that limits the processing of data. Urve Tiidus asked what guarantees that sensitive personal data will not come into the hands of persons who might not use this data in a targeted way. Helen Ojamaa-Muru said that it has been solved in such a way that automatic queries are pre-defined and the information that moves through these queries has been pre-established. Only very limited information can be handled at the PSAP, and it is not possible for this person to manipulate the amount of information. Toomas Kivimägi asked whether this information, whether a person has been provided with medical care or in which hospital he is in, could not be defined as sensitive personal data. Volunteers can share this information anywhere. Helen Ojamaa-Muru replied that the processing of data was minimised. In a crisis situation, people need information about whether their loved ones are even alive, and this is the best possible way for people to know. Heljo Pikhof noted that many people also have a contact person in their medical records, and usually when a person goes to a hospital, he informs his loved ones. Most of the people who are suffering from the virus are not non-communicable. Heljo Pikhof felt that this issue needed to be discussed in greater depth. Vilja Thomas asked, "How many times has the information from the help phone been available about his loved one, whether he is in the hospital and, if so, what hospital? " Thomas said that, as far as he knew, the only thing that would be asked is where to test the symptoms and the restrictions on movement. However, in a situation where there is a large number of victims at the same time, such as the collision of two high-speed trains, no one physically has time to give data to a data breach so quickly. Especially when the victims are taken to different hospitals. That was the question of Vilja Thomas. Helen Ojamaa-Muru replied that there is currently no legal basis for issuing such information via an information telephone. The draft establishes a legal basis to enable people to be informed whether their loved ones are in hospital. The transmission of data between the databases will take place in connection with notifications of the opening of stationary cases. The way in which information is to be entered at the hospital is different in each hospital and depends on the situation. If there is a need to provide this information, it is likely that in a crisis situation there will be an opportunity to exchange information between institutions even faster than there is communication between databases. In the current emergency situation, it cannot be ruled out that there will be mass casualties. Although the situation is stable today, this does not mean that there can be no rapid escalation. The Committee on Legal Affairs did not take account of the number 1 of the proposal presented by the Reform Party Group. Another suggestion was made by Riigikogu member Heljo Pikhof: delete § 1 point 10 from the draft. Heljo Pikhof said that it is now possible for any person in the health information system to identify a contact person who the hospital can contact when they are being taken to the hospital. The principle that a person has the right to determine who has access to his or her medical records must remain valid. Helen Ojamaa-Muru said it was a crisis situation, and not in every crisis situation. It is not worth thinking that in any case, such information about a person will be provided. In a crisis situation, it is necessary to create as flexible solutions as possible to get information about your loved ones when there is a reasonable suspicion that a person is affected by a crisis situation. The Committee on Legal Affairs rejected proposal No 2. Ten proposals came from the Ministry of the Interior, these proposals were finalised by the Committee on Legal Affairs in its name and all proposals were fully taken into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The classification of weapons classes will be improved, providing that the records of weapons belonging to the weapons collection of museums do not need to be entered in the service and civil weapons registers, restoring the requirement that the acquisition, possession and possession of a sporting firearms weapon must be a member of a shooting sports organisation or of a shooting sports club. And there are a number of further clarifications arising both from the directive and from the wording. In addition, we reviewed the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, which also asked for another assessment of the processing of sensitive personal data. The Ministry of the Interior clarified that once more. According to the reply of the Ministry of the Interior, each time the authority responsible for resolving the crisis evaluates the possibility of issuing information, including whether the provision of information on persons may harm them. The Ministry of the Interior stated that there was no reason to withdraw from its earlier position, as no solution could completely rule out the possibility of misuse of information and in that case the person who infringed the legal order would have to be held liable. There are already procedures and rates for taking responsibility. In preparing the second reading, the Committee on Legal Affairs took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 14 April 2020 (by 5 votes to 3, with 1 abstentions), to propose the termination of the second reading (by 5 votes to 3, with 1 abstentions), to propose that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed (by 5 to 3, with 1 abstentions), to propose the final vote on the draft (by 5 to 3, with 1 abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U67	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you! Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U68	Thank you, good waitress. Let us discuss this first point, however, perhaps access to health data. This is actually a fundamental dispute. Against the background of the next draft, or draft 170, the coalition was actually ready to realise that making health data available is very risky and may even be contrary to the Constitution. But with this bill, you don't have that understanding. I heard here from you, and I have heard before, that this information is only used during the crisis and that it is still necessary to publish such information. But actually, we have a normal system that works. And people often choose to have their own health records, including whether or not they are in the hospital. However, does it not seem reasonable to delete this provision in the Commission or you yourself? It would also rule out the draft being maybe stuck, for example, in a dispute over its constitutionality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U69	Yes, this was repeatedly considered by the Committee on Legal Affairs and we were in close contact with the officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs on this issue. We need to be aware that in peak times, 1247 calls were almost 3,500 a day, and in 25 days, the number of calls was about 34000. It is now a question of processing information that no one is still abusing these sensitive personal data. But we also have to take into account that volunteers are recruited from the National Defence Academy, the Rescue Board, the Women's Home Protection and the Ministry of the Environment and are given very adequate training. Ultimately, everything in society is based on trust. There is no way to rule out the abuse of data, as has already been the case in this debate. And there are corresponding sanctions. This emergency number of 1247 has been very helpful in times of crisis. In the meantime, an average of 30 people responded to the calls. Now, when the load stabilizes, an average of 12 people have been deployed. Today, the situation is calm and we hope that it will remain so. But we cannot rule out that at some point the situation in society will be tightened again and then there will be a great deal of human resources needed to ensure a secure society.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U70	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Well, everyone knows foresight is a great thing and a great ability. And this draft 128 provides the legal basis for a wider range of data requests from the health information system than has been the case so far. You mentioned it here, and we knew before that they were volunteers who answered on 1247. One reason to change the law is that if anyone asks where the hospital close to him is. You read all the relevant numbers very correctly. Parliament will also receive all the statistics on how much is being called on this 1247 phone. As far as I read it, no one in Estonia has yet asked where the hospital close to him is. And yet the problem is possible inconsistency with the Constitution. Would it not make sense, however, to support the Reform Party's amendment in order to remove this possibility of extension from draft 128? I think that would be very reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U72	Thank you. Yes, many calls must be considered to support the Reform Party's proposal. The Committee on Legal Affairs has made its decision, and now there is an opportunity to consider it in a large hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U73	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I did not understand very clearly whether information about the provision of ambulance services or information about where someone is in the hospital was sensitive personal data or not. I didn't understand that in the answer to the Home Office person you commented on. In my opinion, it is clearly sensitive personal data. Please, can you confirm that? Secondly, this draft is also justified by the need to reduce the burden on hospitals. Reference has also been made to the current pandemic, the current crisis. I say the opposite: hospitals do not currently have this possibility of transmitting information and so, in fact, the workload of hospitals will be increased if this law is adopted. Is there information on how many cases this need has actually been? I am thinking of a situation where a person was not in contact, who was the contact person to whom information about him could be communicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U75	Such detailed information is undoubtedly available to the relevant authorities. I trust the Chancellor and Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Interior. These questions have probably been asked dozens of times. And I know that the President has also called Members and expressed his concern that sometimes personal data will be manipulated, abused. I trust the administration of the Home Office, they have very precise rules on how information moves, who is responsible for it. And, as I have already pointed out many times, sanctions are also foreseen for the misuse of sensitive personal data of people. So I wouldn't worry too much here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U76	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U77	Thank you very much. Good waitress, this bill talks about crisis situations. Please tell me what this means: a crisis situation. According to this bill, are we already in a crisis situation, a situation where we have an average of 150 people in the hospital? Or how many people need to be in a hospital that hospitals can no longer provide information to their loved ones using the normal system? Once again: what is the crisis situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U78	This definition is based on some kind of emergency law. But if you ask whether we are in a crisis today, I will answer: yes, we are in a crisis today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U79	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U80	Thank you. You said the Minister of the Interior knows exactly why these paragraphs are in this bill. I'm saying the opposite. He said, for example, that when you go to ask for health data, it is impossible for an employer to know the employee's data, the same way that people who have been given a restraining order cannot know the health data if they do not recommend that they know, etc., etc. When I look at this bill, it's like when a person goes outside to take it to the trash can, they measure the temperature, they grab him in the car on the street and they take him to the hospital. And then they'll see where that person is at the hospital. Actually, that's not the case. In fact, this is sensitive personal data, and this is also one of the reasons why the Social Democrats have been very opposed to the change that makes personal data available to volunteers. Your comment, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U81	Yes, the Socialist Group's proposal was also weighed down by the Committee on Legal Affairs and against five votes, four in favour of it were not supported. But the person to whom information is given is very clearly defined. Let's say a very high standard has been developed. There are "filters" that try to exclude that data is given to persons who do not have honest motives. The Ministry of the Interior confirmed that repeatedly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U82	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U83	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The problem that we have been dealing with here for some time is, in short, that human health data will be opened to volunteers and through them to dozens of potential interested parties. This change will result in a situation where the person's health data will be passed on to people who claim to be close to someone on the phone, not by telephone, but by telephone. Something other than a personal identification number that can be found quite easily on the Internet, they do not need to be provided. How is it ensured after this change that human health data cannot be made available to those to whom they are not recommended to be transmitted? How is it ensured that a person can continue to decide who has the right to access his or her medical records?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U84	As I said earlier: very clear procedures have been developed for providing information, and a specific legal basis is nevertheless created for a crisis situation. All data collected at that time will be destroyed when the crisis is over. And these risks are minimized. There can always be theoretical risks in society, and there can be malicious ones who are crossing these security walls and abuse these opportunities, but right now we need to consider whether there is a theoretical violation of fundamental rights anywhere, or whether we still want to solve the problem that is in our yard today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U85	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U86	When you answered my first question, you spoke totally of a garden hole, not of a garden, rather than of such a transferred meaning. My reference to the breach of the Constitution was never made, but you spoke about how many speeches have been made and that we may need to get more people. But okay. Maybe I'll just keep doing the same thing. You said a maximum of three and a half thousand calls a day, and now there have been tens of thousands of calls. Well, we've been officially in emergency for over a month now. So maybe you'll tell us how many of the tens of thousands or thirty or forty thousand calls made on the emergency helpline have been that asked which hospital is close to me? And if they haven't been there, maybe we're still not doing the right thing right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U87	Thank you. I don't have that detailed table available right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U88	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Now I'm gonna grab the word: you said we were gonna solve the problem we have on the table right now. What problem will we solve with this particular change if there is no problem at all? 99.9% of patients who have been hospitalized due to coronavirus are in contact and able to answer virtually the first question in the hospital, who is your contact person. What kind of problem do we solve? And also, I've come up with a nuance here on the spot that has been a little distracted. It is not merely a question of whether an ambulance service has been provided in relation to coronavirism, not merely information about whether a person has been hospitalised and, if so, which one. It's also a confirmation that a person has a corona virus, he's infected.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U90	Thank you. This draft does have many objectives, but one very clear objective is that a legal basis will be created for number 1247 and that volunteers will also be available at the end of the crisis. Currently, the number 1247 operates in a legally borderline situation. And the goal is, of course, to reduce the burden on 112 so that you can channel a certain number of calls to other numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U91	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I am very sorry to hear that no question can actually be answered in substance. The previous question was clearly: what problem will be solved by opening access to personal data to both volunteers and others who call there. I would ask for a specific answer to this! What's the problem when you said you didn't know there were any calls? And my second question: how will the non-disclosure of my data be ensured when I have indicated on the health portal that my health data can only be disclosed to certain persons? How is it ensured that they are not passed on to third parties, even if they are close to me? It's not very difficult to find my social security number and name and claim that someone is close to me. How is the security of my data ensured?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U93	So you still didn't listen to what was read in the minutes of the Committee on Legal Affairs. There will continue to be a debate on why proposal No. 1 is not supported. You've asked me that many times. I will read one more time the response of Helen Ojamaa-Muru, a member of the Ministry of the Interior, to why the Ministry of the Interior does not support these proposals and the Committee on Legal Affairs as well. The deletion of subsection 10 of §1 of the Bill is not supported, as the health information system will not be the source of sensitive personal data. The data collection shall be requested only if the person has been provided with health care and has been hospitalised. It limits the processing of data. How is security ensured? Well, there's already confidence in our authorities here, that's what this is about. I think security is guaranteed. If you're saying you're not, you're gonna have to provide proof.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U94	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U95	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I'll ask you one more time. Please explain the criteria to be met by the crisis situation in which this law applies, according to this bill, so that people's health data will be shared with volunteers. What criteria must this situation meet?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U96	Yes, in this case, the emergency legislation will be actively triggered. And once this situation is lifted, these laws will not be activated.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U97	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U98	Thank you. Without challenging the need for a crisis hotline at all and in recognition of all those volunteers who have already done so, I would still like to challenge the specific measure that concerns health data. We are in a crisis now, which is a very confusing situation in this bill, but the aim is to provide the loved ones with information about the whereabouts of the sick person. However, any measure must be proportionate and purposeful. If we give this right, then in fact, all patients at the hospital, or the health care provider, will be informed if they ask for it. And as far as purposefulness is concerned, actually, at the moment when there's an acute need to get information about a loved one, the CIS doesn't have that information yet. In other words, this is neither a targeted measure nor a proportionate measure. Please explain how this would actually apply, whose interests it serves, and what is this objective in the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U99	Please specify what will apply. [[Signe Riisalo responds from the floor.]] Yes, the measure itself has already been implemented. If you read the draft thoroughly, you will see that we are creating a specific legal basis for it. (Signe Riisalo says something about the floor) I didn't quite understand the question right now. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U100	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U101	You said in one reply that not only information about a person's stay in the hospital will be provided, but even whether a person has been provided with health care during an emergency. This, of course, is much wider than what has been said before. My question is once again: how is it ensured after this law has been implemented that the health data of a person is not passed on to those to whom that person does not wish to transmit his or her data? How is it ensured that a person's health records do not go beyond what he or she decides?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U102	I understand that the Ministry of the Interior has worked very closely with the Ministry of Social Affairs in this regard. All relevant methods and procedures have been developed. However, the question was not put in exactly this form in the Committee on Legal Affairs at this meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U103	Jürgen Ligi has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U104	Thank you. Tell me what the Rules of Procedure say when the waitress honestly admits that she did not understand the question and apologize. Would it be possible, then, to give the questioner the opportunity to clarify the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U105	Yeah, it could be. Was it about the implementation of the measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U106	I asked for a clarification of the measure: which measure was meant to be more precisely. There are a lot of measures in this draft. What kind of measure were we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U107	The Rules of Procedure allow two questions to be asked and it is advisable to ask the question in such a way that the rapporteur understands. And it is recommended that the waitress also respond in such a way that the questioner receives the answer. This is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. But if we don't understand each other, then we need to clear up the big room outside.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U108	Okay, but let's get on with the questions. Signe Riisalo has another question in mind. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U109	Thank you. If the rapporteur does not understand, I would stress, just in case, that we are all talking about the sharing of health data and what is in Amendment 1. All these questions are about that. And my question also concerns this. You said that this measure would already be implemented. We are not talking about emergency helpline 1247, but about sharing health data, about the fact that information is actually going out of the health information system. Please answer what you mean by doing it already! Is this done without a legal basis? And if so, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U110	I repeat, which was also claimed by the Ministry of the Interior's official, in reply to this question, which has already been asked many times here. The data collection shall only take into account whether the person has been provided with health care and, if so, where he has been hospitalised. The processing of data shall be confined to it. That is a very exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U111	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In my opinion, the problem is that it is another example of how, in the shadow of the crisis, attempts are being made to root solutions that are not necessary into the law. Imagine that you are now also going to regulate close and family relations. In fact, people who are ill may not want to know anything about them will also gain access to the data. But the other half is even worse, I think. Our health information system is built on trust. If citizens lose confidence in this system, they will shut down their data and they will not be able to share it in the future. As far as I know, people have that right. They can tell which data they are willing to share with and to whom they are willing to share. Please tell me what it's for. You can't tell from the remote how many such cases there have been so far, but I don't think it's that important. What is important is that the person must inform those people who are allowed to know something about him.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U113	All these questions are based quite a lot on how much we trust our public administration systems, how information moves, how information is processed, whether information is abused or not. The fact that there are no citizens who find a crack is not quite guaranteed. That cannot be ruled out. I have listened to the replies of the Ministry of the Interior and I am convinced today that the fundamental rights of individuals are properly protected. And there is a very precise limit to the identity of the person asking for information. These work procedures are very precise. Such theoretical cases can always be constructed, but the Ministry of the Interior is dealing with real life when the law is implemented. So I have the conviction today that there is no constitutional breach here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U114	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U115	Thank you. You were talking about security holes in the system that no one's worried about, and theoretical dangers. But they're not really that theoretical. Please respond: if I have determined on this health portal that only these people can see and contact my health records, why will it be opened to anyone else or to a third person? First, volunteers, second, those who call this line and ask for my information. And how is it ensured that whoever calls is the person who has the right to access the data? In both your case and, for example, in my case, it is not very difficult to find a personal identification number and a name in the online public and to claim that I am a father or someone else close to me, and to ask for my medical records. How are these things guaranteed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U116	An analogous question was also raised in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but I cannot find this place quickly in the protocol right now. But to do so, there are the corresponding.. I already emphasize the third time that the work procedures are made to identify the person. Personal identification number, name and other options besides the identification number and name required. Well, everyone has some kind of keyword through which you can identify a person. The Ministry of the Interior has its own working methods to identify and minimise the possibility that there is a person with a false identity on the other side.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U117	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U118	Thank you. I'm trying to explain better now. § 1 in this draft, points 9 and 10: transmission of health data. I come back to the proportionality of the measure. This measure, which talks about the transmission of health data, provides an opportunity at a time of crisis, when this measure has taken place, to ask anyone who knows the name and personal identification code of the person in question, also by providing their own name and personal identification code, for all patients who are present at the health care provider at that time. This is not a proportionate approach if we only want to provide information about those involved in the crisis. It therefore does not correspond to good justification. Purposefulness is still a separate issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U119	I have to admit, the Committee on Legal Affairs did not see this problem. The Committee on Legal Affairs did not support this proposal, which you have already pointed out five times here, to delete paragraphs 9 and 10 of § 1. The Grand Chamber will have the opportunity to vote on this proposal if they consider it to improve the quality of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U120	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U121	Thank you. I'm asking about § 91 (21). After all, it is said here that one can ask whether, where and when health care has been provided to a suspected victim in a crisis situation. The health service could be anything. It is not said which service it must be exactly. What you might ask is actually very broad. Now, there are volunteers at work. In a crisis situation, as you yourself said, there will be many questions about the crisis situation. They must then actually answer this question and take out the information about whether the healthcare has been provided and, if so, where and when. In fact, it is a very serious offense, very high rights are granted to volunteers who have access to sensitive personal data.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U122	Yeah, there was the concept of volunteering. I will once again point out the conditions under which volunteers will be involved and how they will be recruited. I already said that while the crisis was going up, volunteers from the Ministry of the Interior, the National Defence Academy, the Rescue Board, the Women's Home Guard and the Ministry of the Environment came to help. They will be trained accordingly; they will have the necessary competences. But since we are still at proposal No 1 I do not know how many times we are already discussing it, and I see that the members of the Riigikogu have a desire to support it, then we will be able to implement this support soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U123	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U124	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! I do not think you realise that our fundamental rights have already been properly violated by the emergency situation. And any additional barricade aimed at a completely vague problem we're still solving? In fact, the problem of violating personal freedoms widens. Imagine that the questioners will be informed of where I have come to the hospital or of any other person. Are you sure that people will accept that their possibly distant or half-distant relatives would also find out that they've gone to a mental institution? Does this reason relate to the fact that we have a problem with the virus now, or has it been a common medical condition? Then the question arises as to what we have given these contacts. Why are we being asked to go to the hospital, whether or not when we enter the EMD, about the contact details of the people to contact? They have to be logically linked to each other, which you can't prove right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U125	Yes, I can only agree that, in an emergency, of course, people's fundamental rights are violated. I agree with that, of course. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U126	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U127	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable questioner! My main concern and the reason why I also raise the same question as others is that you actually do at least some of the members of the Commission who have supported the approach proposed do not understand the modern approach to medical data, all kinds of personal data. We do not know what this arrangement is like in developed countries. We are now taking very many steps back. We are one of the few countries that people have trusted with the fact that their health records have been collected. But there's always been this "opt-out" system, people can get out of it. This opportunity is always there, and it is based on trust. What we're doing right now is criminal, not just against the people whose data you're putting at risk. There are two risk points: the one who asks may not be the right person to get the data, and those who ask maybe volunteers are not the right one. And the third problem is that they don't get the data, because that data will never come later when there is no more crisis. Why do we need it? Why do we need these changes in this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U128	Yes, all these possible risks were considered and, consequently, such a choice was made during the procedure for the draft. I see more of these theoretical fears here that there are individuals who abuse sensitive personal data for some kind of self-interest, not for honest purposes. But the Committee on Legal Affairs, listening to specialists in this field, made this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U129	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U130	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You still try to answer the essence, the question concerns a person's personal data. Just answer that we thought that way and decided that, but you can decide differently in this Chamber, this is not really a substantive discussion on a very important subject, as is access to human health data. I am asking from a slightly different angle the same thing as regards the European Union Data Protection Regulation, which is generally transposed into Estonian law and which basically says that personal data can be processed with the consent of a person, except for a few special cases. One of these specific cases, of course, and this also requires a legal basis, which you then want to create with the draft, is a public interest. Now try to explain the person's hospital request! If a person is not asked for consent, the data will be given to third parties, what is the public good that we defend? What is such an overwhelming public interest that we need to restrict a person's fundamental rights? Try to formulate this public interest here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U131	As there was a reference to data processing, the Data Protection Inspectorate and the corresponding directives, I also point out that the Alert Centre has produced an impact assessment on data protection. Data related is coordinated with the Data Protection Inspectorate, as well as with the controller of the Health Information System, or the Ministry of Social Affairs. I'm sure all these benefits have been considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U132	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U133	Thank you. I still couldn't get the answers to my concerns. You say that everything is, like, guaranteed by certain formalities. Every day's life is different, and you say it's like a lonely problem. No, it's not! I've been working as a doctor for decades, I know what I'm talking about, I know what people want and don't want. That is really why I have concerns about all of us when we make such light - handed decisions. You still haven't told me why.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U134	That is why these enquiries are possible in a very narrow way. This has also been stressed on several occasions by the representative of the Ministry of the Interior, which limits the processing of data and how these data are used. So the problem you've been talking about has been mentioned several times. Questions are repeated and repeated as well as answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U135	Andres Sutt, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U136	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I listen to these answers, and I understand that there is no way I want to come up with substantive answers. But the subject is crucial. I'll come back to what Hanno Pevkur asked for. In my opinion, the decision must be based on some facts and an analysis of these facts. You replied to Hanno Pevkur that you do not know how many of these dozens of thousands of calls have been in which people have been asked if my loved one has been hospitalized. On what basis, however, do you claim that this is actually a problem that you are trying to solve with this bill, really? And another thing, very important. You refer to existing procedures if there is a question of how the person asking is identified. But there's no record of these procedures anywhere. What are your assessments and statements based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U137	I don't think you were at the first reading of the draft, nor were you present when I introduced the preparation of the second reading. So you don't know what the weight of the 1247 telephone number has actually been at the peak. We are in a situation where the situation has calmed down today. But we saw what was at the peaks. And we can't say that this peak couldn't be higher in the future. Here it was repeatedly pointed out how narrowly, how regulated, how precisely labour standards have been set by the Ministry of the Interior in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and also with the Data Protection Inspectorate. That is why we have authorized these authorities to act in order to produce these filters as competently as possible. I cannot agree in any way that a substantive answer would only be if I agreed to this problem and I would say that the proposal number 1 should be approved. It's like a substantive answer. Let's say we've considered different pros and cons and made that choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U138	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U139	Thank you. The answer in substance would also be if you could argue against something. You say you've considered pros and cons, but the pros you haven't been able to name one, and the cons are called by those who ask. And you don't know how to answer that. I will then ask my question again. A third party calls the information line, asks for information about some people being admitted to hospital and receives it. Information that is sensitive health information is given to a third party without the consent of the person. Now try to answer the question on whose behalf this information is provided without the consent of the person: is it in the interests of the person who has been hospitalized or hospitalized, in the interests of the person who is calling, or in the interests of an official or, more generally, in the interests of the country that is sharing this information? Is the information provided for the benefit of the State, for the benefit of the third party or for the benefit of the patient himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U140	Especially in the interests of our loved ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U141	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U142	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! At present, the majority of the dispute still goes on two or one points in this draft. It's about publishing or not publishing personal data. I will look at what the rest of the bill is made up of: there are also many of these relatively irrelevant things, for example, who are allowed to lend a gun to a gun in the shooting range and who are not allowed to, but there are important things. There is the issue of vaccination of rescue officers and other urgent matters. Did it ever occur to you that okay, wouldn't let that emergency service information be shared right now, because it's clearly one point that threatens the fact that this law will even be announced? The President may find it unconstitutional, and I think he should find it. And then everything else stays dragged. As a committee, maybe you could take the decision to pull these points out now, discuss them separately, let's get the rest of the stuff through, and then we'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U143	I agree, Valdo, that there are many other good things in this bill, such as the extension of voluntary social guarantees. At first reading, all the positive objectives of this draft were highlighted, both by the Minister of the Interior and by the Commission. But if you ask me, as I understand it, if the Commission has already made its decision, then the Commission has gathered and made its choice. I don't see anything very problematic here. The Grand Hall shall decide and may decide otherwise, unless the Commission has done so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U144	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U145	Thank you. I'm just asking: how many calls have been received by phone 1247 asking if my loved one has been hospitalized?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U146	I think there's an exact answer to that question from the Home Office. And I think it's pretty fast, for example, today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U147	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U148	I will repeat my question a little on the other side and do not start telling me again that there are, of course, good things in the draft. I'm sure it is, but it's one of those mini-combs you're against as a whole for these good things. And there is now a risk that this law will not be proclaimed for a few points that are not really very important, very important. They don't need to be written into the law right now. Has there not been a temptation at least to interrupt the second reading, take out these points and come back with a bill where they are not there? There would be no problem; the opposition coalition would jointly support the draft. And then you wouldn't risk those good things that are fast, such as social guarantees for rescuers, hanging in the air.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U149	Your question was, haven't I been tempted? I will answer you: I have not been tempted. Perhaps some Members have come up with the idea of handling the draft in such a way as to remove it. But I, as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and also four other colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs, were not tempted to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U150	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U151	Thank you. I have a question: as Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, how do you appreciate such legislation? Is this a good product of legislation that we have before us now? On the one hand, we are talking about the law of salvation, and it is understandable what is being presented here. Of course, there is a completely fundamental dispute between the coalition and the opposition about what rights it gives to volunteers, but the logic that we have here together is, at least, observable. However, at the last minute, a bunch of amendments to the arms laws have been added. What does this have to do with an emergency? Why does it have to be here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U152	The question was whether it was good legislative practice or good lawmaking. I will, of course, respond negatively to this, that I do not. However, there are moments in Parliament's legislation where there is a need to act at a different, faster pace, not enough analysis can be made. In the case of the Weapons Act, the Ministry of the Interior saw the possibility of correcting certain errors, clarifying certain definitions, and also adding substance. The Committee on Legal Affairs considered this, it was also proposed to delete it, but there were the people of the Ministry of the Interior who then explained the importance of supplementing the ten proposals concerning the arms law. So a choice was made on the basis of this information and a decision was made that we are taking into account the Ministry of the Interior's proposal to supplement the arms law. But, yes, unfortunately, in an emergency, you cannot talk about perfect or ideal legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U153	Echo Kallas, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U154	I have a proposal for the manager. Perhaps the chairman could take a break so that the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs can call and ask how many calls there are. Indeed, on the one hand, he says that this is a very important problem, but at the same time he cannot answer the question of how many calls people ask where someone is in the hospital. Maybe we could take a break, he could call and get that information.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U155	Thanks for the offer, but that doesn't necessarily have to be done by the waitress. This can be done by any of the members of the Riigikogu themselves. Jevgeni Ossinovski, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U156	Thank you. Mr President, I am going to ask you this very question: has there not been a debate in the Bureau about setting certain quality standards for the inter-reading Commission's procedures? If the Commission's rapporteur reflects this preparatory work and, in fact, fails to answer any of the questions, then perhaps the quality of the Commission's procedure should begin to be checked in some way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U157	Thank you. It is not the responsibility of the Governing Board to check this quality, and it is, of course, very difficult to do so, to check this quality. This has not been regulated over time, in particular by virtue of the Rules of Procedure Act, so that there is sufficient time to deal with and enough time to propose amendments. At the moment, we are dealing with drafts that have been processed in an urgent manner, not in the ordinary way, and indeed it may be that not all have been thoroughly discussed or not all members of the Riigikogu have received an immediate answer to all their questions. But let's take it into account that this is an emergency, and let's move on. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U158	Thank you. I, by the way, have long wanted such a standard to be established so that the rapporteurs do not read out any formal facts who were present, etc., but who asked for what reflects the debate in its content. Now the waitress is actually pretty naked when the debate wasn't real. Yesterday was the same with the Committee on Monetary Affairs because the coalition simply did not participate in the debate. That's why the waitress just told her life story, and it happens to be hours in a row. I will now try to ask the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs what exactly was the debate on this committee. What proves that proposal number one is bad? What was the content of the criticism? It is not appropriate to talk about someone who cannot be specified. What are the arguments and what was the debate on Amendment 1?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U159	The promoter of the proposal did not refer to any of its arguments at all! Where is the Constitution? He just introduced the proposal. The Ministry of the Interior answered that, there was also a clarification question, and it was the whole debate. I certainly suggest that the opposition also deepen and participate in the debate. If you come forward with your proposal and tell us that there is a very intense constitutional barrier, show us where it is. And you must be able to argue in such a way that not only the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs are convinced of this, but also the officials of the Ministry say that really, that is a good argument, there is a breach of the Constitution. But it's just a slogan to start waving that there's a bar here, and to come up with possible theoretical cases that real life looks at side by side when it's on its labels, it's, let's say, low politics. Let us keep in mind what is really happening in society. [[There's a lot of talk going on in the hall.]] It is my job to bring before you the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I mean, there's this bolt, it didn't come out of nowhere. [[They say something in the hall.]] The author of the proposal should certainly have given very convincing reasons for this, and you have three representatives in the Committee on Legal Affairs. That there is such a screaming gesture in the context of the fundamental rights of people with the Constitution, it did not come out of any place. I understand it's just a desire to score cheaply in politics. And that is the task of the opposition, and I do not mind either Evgen or Jürgen that they are now asking these questions. However, I pointed out the debate that has taken place, and this gesture never came out of the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. So in the future, I would simply recommend better preparation for all the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U160	Signe Riisalo, procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U161	I understand that you have now put criticism of the opposition, but the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs also reflected these risks. For example, it was clearly stated that, in the case of a person subject to a restraining order, how the risk would be mitigated. Why was the opinion of the Social Affairs Committee not carefully considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U162	It's a real example that the opposition really doesn't listen to what they say on the remote. When I made my presentation, I also spoke about the letter from the Social Affairs Committee and I also gave the answer. I am not going to refer it again, at the beginning I did when I gave an overview of the 12 proposals that were made. We were also talking about a letter from the Social Affairs Committee and the fact that an answer was received. That's what I referred to.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U163	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U164	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for admitting that this is certainly far from good practice legislation that we see before us. However, as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, you probably have or could be quite clear as to why, in parliamentary democracy, the authorities are divorced, why legislative power and parliamentary power must be divorced, and what happens when they no longer perform their functions and Parliament loses its role as a government supervisor. You have now described how the amendments to the Arms Act were put into this draft at the last moment, because the Ministry of the Interior simply spoke you into cod at the meeting of the Commission, to say the language of the country. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Do you not feel that you have voluntarily reduced yourself to a classic rubber stamp on this bill in the Committee on Legal Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U165	No, it didn't. But I understood the motive of the question. But the feeling didn't come up, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U166	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U167	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As an opposition ambassador, I am sure to thank you for your recommendation to deepen. But I would like to ask whether your Highness still has any suggestions for the opposition about the procedure in general. What else should we consider in our work? And the additional question: have you considered attaching any weight to your feet to the ground again? Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U168	My recommendation in this regard is that, when there is a major contradiction with the Constitution, the critics should have made this very clear in the hearing of the Committee on Legal Affairs. It is not enough simply to make a slogan that the law violates people's fundamental rights and is contrary to the Constitution. That was my positive appeal, not to take it so personally.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U169	Raimond Kaljulaid, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U170	Maybe I'll be more specific. Do you need a little cooling time as a waitress? We'd be happy to give it to you if you asked. Maybe we'll take a break or something, you can just go down the hall for a second, breathe air and cool a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U171	Thank you for your concern.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U172	Urve Tiidus, next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U173	Dear waitress, In exchange for the subject, I ask you that, as we know, weapons, or people, are moving not only viruses across national borders, but also weapons. There are quite a few proposals to amend the arms law, and one of them is quite interesting. Reactivation of weapons has become more difficult. If you had to make some kind of hole in a major component in a gun, now you have to make eight holes. Would you tell people far from guns why such a change is necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U174	Thank you. I'm sorry you didn't ask that question at the Legal Affairs Committee, Urve. I think Sven Põerpaas would have answered that very accurately. I must present today an overview of the debate that took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U175	Valdo Randpere, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U176	Thank you. I just want to help Jaanus with an old friend. In the meantime, I have come to know that none of the calls on this subject have been made to 1247 during this time. What kind of emergency and urgent problem do we solve here by leaving these points in the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U177	Thank you. Now it will also be easier for you to make your choice if you start voting on these points.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U178	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. Now we have the opportunity to open negotiations. Everyone has the opportunity to speak, and a number of members of the Riigikogu have expressed their wish for negotiations. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U179	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, By paraphrasing the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, we can say that we are not creating a crack, but opening the door for unjustified access to sensitive personal data. That is indeed the case. And more importantly, what Valdo Randpere has repeatedly referred to: it has no connection whatsoever to the current state of emergency. The least connection! And if we resist, we really take the risk that many of the good things that are in this bill are involved in a cluster bill, it may not become a law. It doesn't make any sense! Once again, 99% of patients who have been hospitalized with coronavir are in contact and are able to tell the name of the contact person to whom information on them can be shared. So there is no connection to the emergency situation. However, we give access to sensitive personal data to 50 volunteers. At the same time, please pay attention! The coalition finally realised, after the Chancellor of Justice had referred to it, that it was not justified to give access to the processing of such data even to the head of emergency work, who is known to be the prime minister. Not even the head of emergency, not even the Prime Minister! But with this bill, we want to give this right to 50 volunteers. It is completely incomprehensible that it is not understood that if you find out if a healthcare service has been provided, if you find out whether a person is in one hospital or another, and it has been stressed that the request must be linked to a crisis situation, then the emergency situation at the moment, you will know very clearly that a person is a coronal patient. Whether a person is in a hospital is undoubtedly sensitive information, not to mention what illness someone has, even though it may not be stated. They're asking that when you call, you have to prove your connection to the crisis, in this case, to the corona crisis. I do not think there is any such liberal access to sensitive personal data as this bill is intended to provide. It's just a phone call. Calling! You need to know two names, two personal identification numbers, you need to know what the crisis is in Estonia, and you can ask for information about anyone. About anyone! There is no need, there is no need, but we are creating an opportunity for abuse in a hundred or several hundred cases. Absolutely unreasonable and completely incomprehensible! It has also been noted that, at some stage, this draft has been emphasised that it is intended to reduce the workload of hospitals. We pointed out that, in fact, the health information system does not reflect the so-called on-line provision of emergency medical care to one person or his place in one hospital or another. I learned a new word: it's an epic crisis. This is a medical record that will be taken when the patient is discharged from the hospital. And only then will the information about being one or another citizen in one hospital reach the health information system. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U180	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U181	Which means that the current arrangements do not actually contain this data in the health information system at all. That has finally been understood. And what do they do? Now there will be some new system of gathering and transmitting information on the run. At the same time, even a ministry official says that every hospital currently organises it in very different ways. And now I'm asking, where is the reduction in hospital work? On the contrary, we are creating some kind of extra burden for them, without any justification at all. I also want to draw attention to what the Chancellor of Justice has said. I'm going to jump to the next bill we're going to have to discuss in this hall. There is also a topic, I repeat, to ensure that the emergency manager or the emergency manager has access to personal data so that this data can be processed. And what did the Chancellor of Justice say about this? 'In the event of an emergency and in the event of an emergency, the authorities shall carry out their duties under the law. The grounds for processing personal data necessary for this purpose are contained in the law. / --- / The European Union General Data Protection Regulation (EU-GDPR) is indisputably applicable to emergency and emergency situations. The explanatory memorandum does not indicate the problem to be solved by the amendment, i.e. what would not be done if the amendment were not made. If there is no need to resolve a particular problem quickly, the issue should not be addressed in this draft. " The coalition understood this and next took out this very controversial point from the bill to be discussed. I repeat once again: even giving the Prime Minister such a right is doubtful, even in exceptional circumstances. And now it's being given to 50 volunteer saviors working on the crisis information line. I'm sorry, Jaanus, I've rarely seen you freak out. I'm afraid you went this time. To accuse the opposition that it has not been substantive, to make such accusations, while you did not answer many questions yourself, it is not appropriate and correct. But I hope that's an exception. I haven't noticed that much about you. I hope it shows perhaps an internal struggle inside you. But it is completely unreasonable to fight for nothing, indeed risking that a number of important changes in this cluster bill might actually be missed by a legal provision. Once again: here is zero percent of politics, ladies and gentlemen of the other political groups. Zero percent politics! It is a question of the credibility of our health system, which Mrs Hele Everaus also pointed out. Trust is very important for us to get important data. And we're going to cut off one foot in the chair right now. I wholeheartedly call for support for our amendment, which is Amendment 1. And we are also willing to support the Social Democratic Party's proposal, which is Amendment 2. I call on you to support them. Politics are zero, but we maintain the credibility of our health care system, and we retain the right to share sensitive personal data with the patient, and we do not give it to anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U182	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Although the amendments contained in Bill 128 are certainly not too urgent and would also require more in-depth discussion, even many could be accepted. But here's one "but." And this 'but' concerns a fundamental change that basically opens up health data to volunteers who are or will be helpful in answering the crisis hotline and through them to the person asking for it. I very much hoped that the point in the Committee on Legal Affairs would be deleted, which would give the right to inherit data from the health information system about a suspected victim in a crisis in the provision of a crisis telephone service, but unfortunately this did not happen. I do not think in any way that it is right to change the current system, where the person decides who he wants to report his health records and hospital stay to. In digital history, everyone already has the opportunity to predetermine a contact person for cases where it is not contactable as we know it may not always be a spouse or children, perhaps another close person. I fully agree with Professor Hele Everaus, who pointed out the disadvantages that are going to be. I was the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee when the eHealth system was created when the e-health story was created. And then their creators swore that no one would ever get into that digital lock. But more and more people want to use this data more widely for strange reasons. Today, too, it is possible to cover one or the other health records. If a person covers that data, they won't know where he's in the hospital or where he was. We're not in a situation where you're going out and someone's measuring from a distance, like the police are measuring speed, your body temperature, and if the temperature is higher than normal, they're gonna put you in the car and take you away. And then, yes, the question arises as to where my loved one is. When you look at the explanations and answers of the Minister of the Interior to the members of the Riigikogu at first reading of the draft, they were scattered and strange. Maybe some excerpts. He stressed the need for urgent improvements due to the launch of the 1247 hotline and the involvement of volunteers in both the work of the information line and other law enforcement work. As a problem, the Minister of the Interior saw that volunteers do not have the right to handle and transmit all data to the same extent as professional alarm center employees. I quote Mart Helmet: 'No, it is a specific Jaan Saar, with a specific personal identification number, and only the information necessary for this query is given. For example, if he has been in an accident or hospital, he or she will be examined for his or her medical condition and where he or she can be contacted permanently. There's no such thing as sharing any random data. It is also important that the data is not transmitted to the employer for the protection of the person. ' My question is: where does the alert center volunteer know that the one asking is not exactly an employer or, which would be worse, that it is not a person who has been ordered a restraining order in court and who is chasing this so-called subject of violence? I quote the honourable Minister of the Interior at first reading in the Riigikogu: 'I can, of course, also clarify the assumptions that then concern... ' More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U184	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U185	'... specific requests for persons. The prerequisites for receiving data are the following: the person making the request discloses the name, surname, personal identification number or date of birth of the person close to him or her, the person making the request discloses his or her first and last name, personal identification number or date of birth, telephone number and his or her relationship with the person close to him or her. It must also explain why it believes that a close person is affected by a crisis situation. If the person making the request refuses to answer or the information raises doubts, the Alarm Centre will not release the data. The Alert Centre checks the identity of the persons from the population register. It's an automated request. ' And he thinks it's a rather effective measure, everything's under control. My question is, how does a volunteer still make his decision? There is another extract on what the Minister of the Interior said at first reading of the draft, answering the question of one member of the Riigikogu: 'Yes, I fully agree with that. And, as I said earlier, in answering Mr Networkship's question, the data that can be provided within this query is very limited. There's no complete medical history. Since this is a crisis hotline, we still treat it first and foremost as providing basic information about whether a person has been in a hospital, a sobering house, or anywhere. ' In conclusion, on behalf of the Socialists in particular, I would like to thank the volunteers and, on the other hand, to say that the voluntary processing of health data resulting from the protection of personal data is the weakest and most sensitive part of this draft. In this context, the Social Democrats propose that the reading of draft 128 be interrupted, that time should be taken to work with the draft, that a balance be found and that personal data be protected, that people should also dare to go to the doctor in the future and that their diagnoses should not be made public when someone has to take advantage of the crisis situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U186	Thank you. I shall put the proposal for interruption to the vote after examination of the amendments, as provided for in the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U187	I realized you don't have to submit the paper anymore. But thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U188	It's better if it's paper, though. It's more secure. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U189	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! I don't have a prepared speech, but there are some important lines that I consider important, of course, regarding human health data. I did not hesitate to ask the chairman of the committee for whom the processing of sensitive personal data would be in such a situation. The chairman of the committee said it would be in the best interests of our loved ones. However, in general both Estonian constitutional law and European law, the principle of the individuality of fundamental rights applies and... A note was made that there is no hearing!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U190	Yes, it is a request to speak louder!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U191	I'll try to speak up. There is a principle of individual rights in Europe, which means that in general a person's own consent is needed to process his or her personal data. There are certain exceptions: in the case of children, where a person has certain psychological, psychiatric or other special needs, which makes such consent impossible and is assumed under certain conditions. But in general it is. If a deviation is made, i.e. without the consent of the person, his or her health data will be processed, there must be an overriding public interest. And we have to say what kind of interest that is. In this case, of course, this has not been done, and I do not think it can be done, because it is very difficult to define the public interest in processing on such a large scale. My colleague, Mr Everaus, rightly referred to this problem, but I am going to extend this subject a little bit, which concerns the health information system as such. Mostly in a large number of countries, as well as in us, very cautiously integrate health data into a single information system, because it is inherently extremely risky. These are very sensitive data for a very large number of people. That is why these systems operate on the opt-in principle in very many countries. A person must consent to his or her data entering this information system. But the result in these countries is that data collection is very low, only a few percent of people have joined the Health Information System. Practically national health information systems do not work in most countries because of this. But we work because we have adopted the opt-out principle: it is possible for a person to leave it, but by nature all our personal data go there. And this has been the case from the outset, as Mr Pikhof stressed, always with the promise that we will not allow anyone to use health data except medical doctors. Well, there are criminal proceedings, and there are a few exceptions, such as the forensics institute, if you die, etc. Well, we're all gonna die. But generally only a physician. Colleagues who have been in the office of the Minister for Social Affairs over the years and, fortunately, there are many of them here, know very well that the pressure to open up the health information system to anyone, in many areas, is enormous and constant. Because it's practically a very useful information system. Very much can be done to make procedures more comfortable, easier, better, better, excellent! And it's been a real job to beat back these experiments. I'm just going to call you a couple of tests that have specifically been in my time. Department of Defence Resources: the boys have to go to the Defence Forces and say they're sick. A doctor's aunt looks at you, says you're not that sick. They wanted automatic access to the health information system to see if the boy was sick or not. Makes sense, doesn't it? That's how all those bums come out who just don't want to go to the defense forces, actually, there's nothing wrong with health. It was a long way to get rid of that wish. Now, specifically in the health information system, you have to give your consent to allow the DHS doctor to look at your data. Just like that! If you don't, you can take the evidence on paper. Why didn't we say no? Among other things, cowardice is, of course, that if this right had been granted to the Defence Resources Board, those boys who want to file would simply have shut down their health records. So it wouldn't have solved the practical problem. Three more minutes, please, I feel like I'm getting carried away!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U192	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U193	The Employment Allowance Act, a major reform, isn't it? Health data are essential for assessing work ability. Not only does § 6 of the Employment Capacity Allowance Act say that a person has to give his or her consent to carry out expert assessments on the basis of data from the Health Information System. At the time of the reform, the unemployment fund has already created a pre-filled tick in its information system that I agree with the processing of data. We told you to take it down. An individual must express his agreement to share his or her health data in the health information system. A desperate social need: a total of 100000 people have very many procedures, in any case there is a social interest that these procedures should be carried out as efficiently as possible. We didn't allow it! I didn't allow it because it's health data. We do not allow health records to be used without the consent of a person. And following this same law, it is good that, incidentally, here in Parliament, insurance companies wanted access to this system. It would be a terrible thing to assess people's payments of benefits and anything else if they could get access. And this desire is not at all malicious, just so that we can assign people a risk premium, knowing how much they are likely to die or how sick they may get. This is a very, very big and fundamental issue. It wasn't allowed then either. The Health Service Management Act contains § 593 which states very strictly who and under what conditions may have access to the Health Care Information System. These are actually treating doctors and, in the context of providing health care, also some additional staff, such as physical therapists, clinical psychologists, etc. But, for example, we have not simply given psychologists who provide assistance outside the health care institution access to the health information system, even though they would also have a practical need to gain access to it on the basis of the person's interest. And now why this provision obviously has to be scraped out of this bill if we want it to become a law. The reason is that, in fact, the writers of this provision have overlooked such a thing that according to the same § 593 only doctors are allowed to cover their personal data. This means that if this draft is adopted as it is currently unchanged, there is no right to shut down their health records for those volunteers at the Alert Centre. So people don't get the chance to opt-out specifically for these volunteers, but the Defence Resources Board and the unemployment fund doctors do. You can also close your records for your doctors, but you can't shut down the Alert Center for volunteers, because § 593 (3) clearly states who you can put them away for. Unfortunately, the DHS volunteers didn't sign in. So let's get this provision out of the way, and let's not make a fuss about it, and let's just keep protecting the health information system as well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U194	Thank you. Before we proceed with the negotiations, it is obviously practical to put to the vote the proposal of the Central Party Group to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than two o'clock. Let us invite everyone to the Chamber first and then put it to the vote. Honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, one against and no abstentions. The proposal has therefore been approved and the sitting will continue until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We will continue to discuss the issues on the agenda. Next call, Urmas Kruuse, please! Three minutes extra time, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U195	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only agree with Mr Evgen's comments on the pressure to open up health records in order to improve various services. This pressure has been insane. But I think it has been one of Estonia's success stories that we have such data and that we can use them in the interests of health so that every citizen can benefit from it. I was able to attend this meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs via the video bridge, because I was bound by another point because of one proposal. And I'm still surprised or I'm not surprised at how much people are trying to push through things that aren't related to coronavir. I consider it totally deplorable when nine or ten proposals for amendments to the arms law arrive within an hour before the beginning of the sitting and the Members of the Commission have to discuss this. I did not have to participate directly in this process, but, as the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs admitted, this is not good legislation. But now to the greatest criticism that we have now. I just reviewed the Prime Minister's review of April 13th of this year. Hospital treatment had 157 people in connection with COVID, 102 have been sent home, 9 people on controlled breathing. I asked myself ten times what this bill would solve. Where are those people looking for their loved ones who don't know where they are? And I couldn't find the answer. Valdo Randpere said that I think it has been established that although several dozens of thousands of calls have been made to this information line, no one has asked. I will also look at this data knowing that scheduled treatment is currently suspended, except for cancer treatment. On average, there are about 400 hospital beds in Estonia per 100000 people. I do not understand what kind of problem we are solving and why we are prepared to go against the fundamental rights of people, or to give personal data to people who do not necessarily need it. Today it has been confirmed in this remote control that we urgently need this opportunity so that volunteers can tell the loved ones where someone is. If that is the case, I would argue that the health system and the general standards that we have are not working. Why am I saying this? This has also been clarified many times here, I will repeat again. If a person goes to a hospital, in most cases the person is identifiable and can tell who needs to be informed that he or she has been hospitalized. It is also recorded in human health records. There is basically no direct need to share this information. When a person collapses on the street, in normal circumstances his identity will be identified and loved ones who need to be informed will also be found quite quickly. Even when people are taken away by ambulance, they are usually not taken off the street. In most cases, people are taken away from home, and it is possible to inform their loved ones. If someone says that there is an exceptional need for an additional opportunity, then the current systems will not work and they will have to be reviewed. If anyone thinks we're gonna attack 50 volunteers today and say they're unreliable people, you're wrong. We are not specifically attacking volunteers, we are defending personal freedoms, we are defending the freedom of a person to tell the state through a health care facility, who are those people who need to know about my being in the hospital. This is the greatest freedom and the right to be protected, not to take into account the vague desire to give someone more rights. That's a problem for me. This has been said before, and our country has often discussed what problem we are still solving with the new law. What is the purpose of this solution? It turns out today we don't really have a problem. We're just imagining that we have a problem. There may be a problem, but it's not right now. That is what the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs' answers to our questions proved. If there were a major problem, the Committee on Legal Affairs would have had information on how many speeches have been made. This actually means that our specific amendment is very sensible. These points should be removed and taken into account in the opposition proposal. And the question today is not whether the Reform Party, the Social Democrats or the Coalition are proposing. This is about the rights of individuals. And that, in my opinion, is extremely important. And that makes no sense for us to waste any more time in this debate. These points should be taken out and moved on to solving other important issues in this bill, which I am sure will be supported by very many, or most, in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U196	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U197	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! And good voters, volunteers, all those who have been watching this debate! The first question I have to ask is whether most of this hall suffers from the madness of size, mania grandiosa. Are they obsessed that everyone wants to keep looking at their medical records? I don't know how to answer for everyone. It's still big, smart people, but a lot of people are focusing on themselves at every turn, you know, expressing that desire. It's like they want to be from the sun. On one point, the previous speaker actually referred to a fine word, and that was also the answer of the committee chairman. Our systems so far are all built on trust. Today we have a question here about who trusts what. I understand that the opposition does not trust volunteers because it thinks that these are people whose primary desire to participate in volunteering is to gain access to sensitive personal data and perhaps to start selling them somewhere. If you read or listen to this verbatim, you will understand that the main doubt is that someone who is volunteering will come and be able to access these data. I'm sorry, but it was kind of embarrassing to listen to. I think that if Hanno Pevkur, for example, was the Minister of the Interior today, everyone would believe that these thoughts and suggestions are actually good. I personally trust the Ministry of the Interior, regardless of who the Minister of the Interior is. At the same time, I say I don't trust the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Department. And even so, no matter who the minister is. It's just my personal experience. When we talk about trust, I have a feeling in the Ministry of Social Affairs that citizens are just idiots and they need to be protected from themselves. I got sick sometimes, I got an ambulance. I went there to the information system, the same thing that was said here, that a horrible good information system, I wanted to see what was wrong with me. But I don't see it. My data will be protected from myself. What was wrong with me, the doctor sees, but I didn't see anything. Logs in, logs out, maybe the data hasn't come up. I'll get the information, not the criminal way, but not the most legitimate way. I don't think this system is working well right now. Where do we still have a problem? We have volunteers on the front line, and it needs to be legalized. And twice it's said what kind of data they need to process. Everyone's always saying that maybe he wants to look, you know, at my personal data or someone else's. Well, that's not a suggestion! And if it expands, let's say volunteer rescuers, what happens then? What's the main purpose of this whole Trill and the Race? The main objective is that not the draft that is on the table today, which we will still be able to deal with in any way, but that the next, SE 170 will under no circumstances be dealt with today. This is a pure parliamentary political game. So I'm telling you, good people that you're watching us: nobody's worried about the fear that maybe his data is being monitored or that no one's getting the data. As the good fighting companion Urmas said: volunteers are actually trusted. The Riigikogu is grateful to you for your contribution. Let us hope that we can now proceed calmly once our passions have subsided. Maybe somebody might pour some more oil into the fire. But we live with passion, we die peacefully. As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I support all the proposals made by the Committee on Legal Affairs. And in the case of those to which I did not support, I was convinced that I was on the right track. Tarmo's always on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U198	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You see, there's no need to say the line from the correct position, you can come to the remote. Good Tarmo, when I was Minister of the Interior, and when I was Minister of Social Affairs, I always stood for people's health records to be human. That is a very fundamental question. My colleague Ossinovski described very well what has been tried to do in the past. The Defence Resources Board also wanted to have direct access to human health records when I was Minister of Social Affairs. I didn't think it was right at the time, and the health ministers who came after me didn't think it was right. Yes, a person's own decision gives access. These are fundamental choices that we have to make in this Chamber, and the choice is whether or not a person is the owner of his or her health records. Yes, we chose opt-out consciously. The opt-out option was precisely to make the health information system work as it has been implemented in Estonia. There must be a guarantee that no one can access it. There must be certainty that this will be done at the utmost need and that it will be done to use health-related data. This draft, which we have ahead of us here, is indeed a good coalition ambassador, one could say that we are dealing with a very small part of this bill here and there are very many other important things. I'm sure it is! And certainly there are also points here that are not linked by an ounce to an emergency situation. The fact that we allow rescue officers to apply direct coercion is completely out of the scope of the dispute, that we allow volunteers to use physical force in the course of a rescue event on the basis and according to the procedures laid down in the Law Enforcement Act, the fact that the Rescue Board is authorised to use firearms or, more specifically, demineers, plus the amendments to the Weapons Act introduced here are certainly things that must be regulated, but they are not related to an emergency situation. All right, we can accept them here, but in order not to put this bill behind us, it really makes sense to support either our proposal or the proposal of the Sots. Ours is more reasonable, because ours also covers point 9, so you only have point 10. They should be supported, i.e. the use of health data should be excluded. Then we can move on with this bill. There is no political grudge here, and if Tarmo is looking for some kind of goal here with SE 170, the next draft to stretch far from it! We've got tomorrow, we're gonna sit down all night! That's not a reason, it's a matter of substance. The opposition has repeatedly said that we do not make any stupid obstacles to resolving the emergency situation, do not take breaks, do not do any silly things, but these are points which, in haste, must not go through in such a way that we will regret it afterwards. The amendments to the Weapons Act are a good example of this. We hurriedly on Aivar Koka's proposal, took a break, and talked about whether shooting clubs could still move forward calmly and in a way that no problems would arise for bikers. We made a quick change, but it turned out that we did wrong, overfoot, and now we're fixing this mistake here with this very bill. It's just a real example that we shouldn't make overcoming changes, which we're actually seeing right now is a mistake. And there's a simple solution. If the coalition in the case of SE 170 realised that the risk was both a violation of the Constitution and, in fact, even worse, in order to issue sensitive personal data, or health data, to those who do not need to have them... I'll take three more minutes just in case!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U200	Three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U201	... then please also understand in this draft that this is exactly the same analogy. The task of the legislator is, among other things, to assure every person in Estonia that his or her health data is protected. We are also responsible for adopting laws in this Chamber because these changes, which we approve in one form or another, do not violate people's fundamental rights. The changes that we are now asking to adopt do not concern, Tarmo, in any way, whether we trust or do not trust volunteers. Of course we do! It may also be not a voluntary one, but an employee of the Rescue Board itself, or an answer to 112, or a professional rescue service, who responds to emergency helpline 1247. It is not a question of who answers it. The question is, what does he say to a person and what information he can give to a person? It is a fundamental dispute, rather than a dispute, but it is a fundamental position that we have defended through the ages, over the years, in this Chamber various ministers, regardless of whether they have been social ministers or some other ministers in the government. We protect human health data and we protect a person's right to decide on his or her own health data. It would not be a very big change in the form of this draft, but in essence it would be a very big change if we approved it today. Between second and third readings, we no longer make substantive changes, we only make linguistic changes, and that is all. If we press 'yes now! ' or, more specifically, if the coalition is pushing the Reform Party or the Social Democrats against the proposal, it is basically passed as a law. And I don't think this is the right way. If you want more time to think, it's possible to stop reading this bill the way you put it. But in essence, we will be able to proceed quickly with this draft, leaving points 9 and 10 out of support for the Reform Party's amendment. This is not a political proposal, I assure you once again. For God's sake, I wouldn't have minded if the coalition had made this amendment. The Reform Party would have wholeheartedly supported this Coalition amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of both the opposition and the coalition, the question is not whether anyone wants to juggle. The question is whether or not we protect human health data and the person's right to decide on his or her own health data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U202	No further requests for participation in the negotiations have been made, so we are now going to the revision of the amendments. A number of amendments have been proposed for the 128 draft. The first amendment, made by the Reform Party Group. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U203	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on and for a five-minute break before it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U204	Five minutes before the break, and then the clock comes with a call.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U205	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope everyone's in the hall. So, we are discussing the amendments made to bill 128. Let us start with the first amendment made by the Reform Party Group and the Steering Committee have been disregarded. The Reform Party Group has asked for this amendment to be voted on. Please take a stand and vote. 39 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this amendment, 47 against, the amendment was not supported. The second amendment is from Mr Pikhof, a member of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. Rocks Hard.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U206	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U207	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal by Mr Pikhof, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group, or another amendment. Please take a stand and vote. 39 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, against 48. The amendment was not supported. Let's go! Amendment 3, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and fully taken into account as commission. Amendment 4, again in favour of the Committee on Legal Affairs and proposal: take full account. No one's gonna vote? Amendment 5 is also from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal of the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 6 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal of the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 7 from the Committee on Legal Affairs again and proposal: take full account. Amendment 8 from the Committee on Legal Affairs, proposal from the commission: take full account. Amendment 9 from the Committee on Legal Affairs, lead committee: take full account. Amendment 10 from the Committee on Legal Affairs and proposal from the commission: take full account. Amendment 11 from the Committee on Legal Affairs, proposal from the commission: take full account. Amendment 12 from the Committee on Legal Affairs and proposal from the commission: take full account. We have examined the amendments. We still have to vote on the cut-off proposal. This is the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Rescue Act and the Weapons Act 128. I shall put it to the vote, please take a position and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the interruption, against 47. The proposal for interruption was not supported and the second reading has therefore ended. Let's move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U208	We are starting to discuss 170 draft laws on the amendment of the Act and other laws (measures relating to the spread of SARS-Cov-2 virus causing COVID-19 disease) initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U209	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft 170 was on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs at its regular meeting on Thursday 9 April 2020. This was followed by an extraordinary meeting and the Commission closed this week's debate at its meeting on Monday 13 April. The draft combines crisis measures and concerns a wide range of areas: powers of assistant police officers, school examinations, foreign rights, data protection, etc. That was also the reason why the debate took a long time. The meetings of the Commission held on 9 April began at 14 a.m. and ended at 20:40 p.m. In addition to the members of the Commission, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs took part in the meetings. The members of the Riigikogu also attended Urmas Kruuse, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Oudekki Loone, who tabled their own amendments to the draft. The main debate was about what crisis measures are and what is the implementation of the political agenda. There was no real consensus among the members of the Commission on these issues, but in many places the amendments reached fundamental political compromises, which were supported both by the coalition and by the opposition. A total of 47 amendments were tabled, of which relatively few were technical. Most were substantive and the debate was also very substantive. More about the amendments. The processing of personal data in emergency situations covered by Amendments 5, 6 and 7 was excluded from the draft. As regards school examinations, the Committee on Legal Affairs did not support Amendment 21 of the Committee on Culture, but proposed a similar amendment, No 24, which gives the government the power to decide on school examinations during this and the following academic year, but not later than 19 August. The Committee on Legal Affairs supported the Social Affairs Committee's proposal, which, by way of exception, allows the establishment of a branch pharmacy in larger cities if the nearest pharmacy in the city is at least 10 kilometres away. This proposal is not directly related to the emergency situation. The distances in km were specified, which is Amendment 31. Amendment 42 refers to the fact that foreign workers in agriculture can work without further restrictions until 31 July 2020 and their permit to stay may be extended until 31 August 2020. This amendment was endorsed by the Committee on Legal Affairs. There were also a number of competing proposals that could not be supported. Some of the proposals were more conservative, some more liberal. The total number of amendments was very high. I'm not going to introduce everyone, but I'd be happy to answer the specific questions. Late last week, the following procedural decisions were taken by the Commission. Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 14 April by 6 votes to 2, with 1 abstention. Secondly, to propose that the second reading be completed by 6 votes to 2, with 1 abstention. Thirdly, to propose that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed, and the third reading should take place at the meeting of 16 April 2020, beginning at 10 a.m. by 6 p.m. against 2, with one abstention. Fourthly, to propose a final vote on the draft by 6 votes to 2, with 1 abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U210	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U211	Thank you, Andrei! The title of this draft clearly indicates that it is a response to the current emergency situation. Even the medical name of the virus has been presented and consequently it has been stated that this law contains only measures relating to the spread of SARS-Cov-2. Reading the provisions that have been put here, I am deeply convinced that this is not the case. Leaving aside the amendments to the Act on Assistant Police Officers, I found here, for example, amendments to the Law on Medicines, which basically concern the work of a pharmacy, but last for a long time and create a distinction that has nothing to do with the emergency situation. I found many other such changes. Did the Committee on Legal Affairs consider it necessary to address only the provisions relating to the emergency situation or the wider legislative changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U212	Thank you. As regards the proposal made by the Social Affairs Committee, the Riigikogu committees can submit amendments. Their content is decided by the author, not by the one who adopts the proposal. The Committee on Social Affairs explained that this amendment is necessary and fits into the context of the law, but they also said separately that it is not an amendment that is directly linked to the resolution of the crisis. So this knowledge was entirely available to the members of the Commission, but it did not prevent us from voting in favour; the proposal received a relatively positive reception from the members of the Commission. But yes, the Committee on Social Affairs specifically emphasised that these are not crisis measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U213	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U214	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I think it is very important that both the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Legal Affairs, with their amendment, gave a very clear signal that Parliament's role should not be reduced in emergency situations. I am referring here to the government's proposal to give the government the right to decide for an indefinite period how graduation should proceed in the future. Thank you very much for this, both to your committee and to the Committee on Culture. But you said there was also a representative of the Ministry of Education and Research. Would you please tell me how the representatives of the Ministry justified their original proposal that this right should be granted to the Government of the Republic indefinitely?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U215	Thank you. They justified their wish by the lack of clarity regarding the next academic year. Their plan was from the very beginning that the next year's exams will be decided in August of this year. We formalised it as a Commission proposal to reduce the risk of communication, because this initial wording might have given the impression that the Ministry actually wanted to decide later and that the Ministry might have the opportunity to opt out of school exams. In order to be clearer, the Committee on Legal Affairs came up with such a compromise wording, and the Committee on Legal Affairs voted against the amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U216	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U217	Thank you. I will continue on the provisions that are not included in the draft. Here are, for example, amendments to the Aliens Act, which say, among other things, that when a person ends a contract of employment, he automatically loses the right to stay in Estonia on the same day. Mr Lone also proposed this, who said that a person could have at least 30 days in such a situation to find a new job, even with the same employer, for example, he is working as a welder and that he might wish to switch to another Czech or another job, but this option has not been granted. Similarly, in the case of relief police officers, it is actually unclear to me how we are reducing the obligation to study or training on the one hand, and on the other hand we are giving the right to use the force on the other. Based on these questions, I wonder if you think this bill is ripe for a second reading in this big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U218	Thank you. There were quite a few questions. I understand that the first two were of such a rhetorical nature, and I must respond first and foremost to the latter. I think that, in today's situation, we really don't have much time. Our common goal is to achieve an optimal result that will help Estonia to emerge from the crisis, say, not quite without loss, but at least with minimal losses. Every day and every hour is accounted for. Legislation is that it may take years for the perfect law to be made, but unfortunately we do not have these years to be taken now. We have to decide quickly, and that's why we're all here together. There was also an in-depth debate in the Commission which, I believe, helped to achieve a better result in many respects. Let's hope we did the best we could.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U219	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U220	Thank you. My question concerns the coalition's compromise on external labour in the agricultural sector. There are people who have read it and wondered how to organize their lives. They've been asking about it, and I'm going to ask you about it. EMTAK code A01 is the one that assesses whether a person has the right to remain here or not. Since EMTAK provides information to people-companies themselves, there is no process of substance on the one hand, is it theoretically possible that today, for example, the foreign worker at OÜ We are building houses and building houses, and then OÜ We are raising Kapsai, reorganizing the same employee there and building the houses on the other? Is this option possible, and if it is, what's the point of this A01 restriction right here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U221	Thank you. This change concerns companies whose main activity corresponds to Statistics Estonia's classification of economic activities, or the letter code A01 of EMTAK, which includes plant and livestock production, hunting and activities serving them. I may not be able to give economic advice here as a member of the Riigikogu, but there is no doubt that houses also play an important role in these areas, so what the company actually does will probably be decided by the board of directors of the company and certainly not by me or you. They are best placed to choose this area of activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U222	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U223	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have said, and it is also true, that the amendments proposed by the Committee on Culture have not been taken into account. My question is this: did the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research put pressure on the Committee on Legal Affairs or influenced you to reject it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U224	Thank you. This was largely a video session. I and the chairman of the committee were present, and we were not under pressure. However, I cannot tell you what happened in the homes of the people who took part in the hearing through video. I can't really put my hand on my heart. But there's Thomas Kivimägi sitting in front of you who can tell me what happened to him. For example, in the meantime, he had the video off and I didn't see him. But I can say for myself that there was no pressure, and that decision was made on the basis of the real situation. This seemed to be the optimal solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U225	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U226	Thank you, dear waitress. We do not know what the labour market will be like in times of crisis. It is clear that it makes every sense to find applications for as many people as possible in Estonia and to be flexible. In the Commission, when it comes to these specific dates, was it also discussed how to increase the flexibility of the government, depending on the situation in the labour market? Not that there should be specific dates in the law, but that the government, depending on what the situation will be, makes flexible decisions, where and in what area will the restrictions on the use of migrant workers be relaxed? In my opinion, this would be a very sensible and flexible solution in times of crisis, but I see that today's draft rules out this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U227	Thank you. No, the Commission did not discuss such a matter, but this draft does not rule it out. There could be another bill that would give the government a greater right to participate or change dates or add areas of activity, etc. Today, indeed, the political compromise is what it is. We all understand that the season in agriculture does not end on 31 July, but it is true that we do not know how the crisis is developing and what our situation is in the summer. At the moment, this compromise remained, but nothing will prevent the Riigikogu, for example, from coming back to this topic in a month's time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U228	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I thank you very much for the 'in-depth' review of what happened in the committee hearing. This gives the impression that the sitting would last five minutes, although in fact it lasted an unprecedented seven hours. And I'm also saying that no one pressured me at home. But my question is that one very bad precedent emerged in this cluster bill when the Committee on Legal Affairs voted down the Committee on Culture's amendment, which actually falls within the remit and responsibility of the Committee on Culture. I am thinking of the amendment tabled by the Committee on Culture on basic school and upper secondary school law. This is completely unprecedented and, in my opinion, very bad practice is emerging. Can you describe the reasons why the amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture did not fit? And how did it differ from the amendment tabled by the coalition or the Committee on Legal Affairs, which was approved by the Commission? How did they differ?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U230	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that both the draft and the proposals are presented at the back of the hall. I simply did not consider it necessary to present all 47 amendments here. However, I mentioned that the session ended at 8:40 and started at 14:00, so that quite seven hours did not come out of there for 6 hours and 40 minutes, and there were also breaks. The Committee on Legal Affairs consulted the Committee on Culture and the Minister for Education and, of course, there was a very thorough debate on these amendments also on the ground. It was a compromise that was suitable for most people. I would remind you that there were several amendments in the competitive vote concerning the organisation of school examinations, and a single amendment received a majority of the votes cast by the Members of the Commission. The others couldn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U231	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U232	Thank you. Paragraph 5 (3) of the draft law amends the Emergency Act in respect of persons who should not be burdened with the obligation to work in connection with an emergency situation. Amendment 8 introduces two changes: to include a person with partial work capacity alongside a person with no working capacity, on the grounds that the workplace of a person with reduced mobility, or also a person with a sensory impairment, such as visual impairment, is often adapted and in such a case it may be very difficult to fulfil this duty elsewhere. But more important to me is the subject of children. Point 5 of the provision to be amended is intended to protect children so that a child under 12 years of age is not deprived of parents or day-to-day education. This wording, which it contains, speaks of a parent or guardian; in the case of a single parent, there is no solution. How and for what reasons did you reject this amendment?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U233	Thank you. You have mentioned at least three amendments at the moment. Amendment 5 was taken fully into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. [[S. Riisalo will explain.]] Number 8? I hear Jürgen Ligi wants to help. I'm getting a little deeper. He can say the word in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U234	But not too much, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U235	Amendment 8 refers to persons who are pregnant or who have a small child. The difference between Amendment 5 and Amendment 5 is that it does not specify how many parents there are. The eighth suggestion. [[Talk in the hall.]] Amendment 9 deletes the words 'one parent' so that there is no restrictive restriction. The ninth proposal complements the eighth proposal. If you look a little forward in the table of amendments, you will discover that after the eighth, there will be a ninth proposal. The eighth amendment has been rejected because the ninth amendment clarifies the fifth amendment, where... the word 'one' has been deleted from the text. [[Talk in the hall.]] You may not be happy with this explanation, but that is the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U236	I guess I should just step in and say we're gonna drop this debate. Participants will have the opportunity to ask more questions and speak. Now the question is on Urmas Kruus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U237	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The coalition ignored my proposal concerning the possibility of letting them work until the end of the season, i.e. until autumn, for migrant workers working in agriculture. The coalition has made its own amendment as a matter of urgency, and I would like to ask why you ignored the opinion of the Committee on Rural Affairs' proposal to the Committee on Legal Affairs. From what figures did you make that decision? How many farm workers, migrant workers, are affected? And how much migrant labour does agriculture really need at that time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U238	Thank you. In addition to the Committee on Rural Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had issued a similar guideline. Indeed, in conclusion, the Committee on Legal Affairs made a more conservative decision. We have discussed in the past that it is only possible to extend the stay permit until 31 July if the foreign worker is working in agriculture. There were other proposals, both for the deadline and for the sectors, and the current regulation is indeed a political compromise. When it comes to numbers, I'm afraid I don't know how to answer you right now. If I have to, I can send you an answer afterwards. Opinions in the Commission were also different in terms of whether the research sectors could find local labour. Let's just say that a lot of people were quite skeptical about this, but that was the decision that remained. And I would like to emphasise once again that we do not know how the crisis is developing and what the situation is like in the summer or autumn. The Riigikogu can come back to this topic if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U239	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U240	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'll continue with my last question. As you said, according to their explanation, the Ministry had no intention of giving the government the right to decide permanently on the graduation of children. When I read this amendment by the Ministry, I understand that the plan was formulated with a permanent nature. To be clear, please tell me how it seemed to the Committee on Legal Affairs whether the wording was of a lasting nature or related to an emergency situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U241	Thank you. If you mean the amendment that the Ministry of Education and Research wanted, then indeed, it can be interpreted in different ways. In order to reduce the scope for interpretation, the compromise proposal adopted, which, in the opinion of the Minister for Education, also meets their requests, reduces the scope for interpretation, but helps to achieve the same objective. It seemed that all parties were satisfied with this. But I can't read minds, maybe some weren't. This agreement, however, was the only amendment supported by the Committee on Legal Affairs on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U242	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U243	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! On the previous point of the Riigikogu's agenda, the debate on the 128 draft law involved a serious dispute over a change brought before the Riigikogu by the government, which basically opens up human health data to third parties. This draft, which you are currently defending before us, was originally the same as the proposal for processing personal data of a person, in paragraphs 1 and 2 of § 5. The Commission proposed to withdraw it. My question is as follows: on what arguments did the Commission consider that such processing and opening of personal data, health data could not be supported? Why was this proposal originally included in the draft withdrawn?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U244	Thank you. In essence, it was the initiator's wish and, as a Commission proposal, it was formalised at the last Commission meeting. This was probably because this regulation had to come elsewhere. Well, we can discuss whether the previous bill is the best place for this, but this particular context may not be the best option. In any case, it was a common will, and all the members of the Commission agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U245	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U246	I would like to thank the President of the sitting. My question is that, in this emergency situation, it is possible for workers to be given additional one-off duties or duties, the performance of which does not result from their job description, employment contract or legislation. And it is noted that the prerequisite is that a person has the knowledge, skills, and experience needed to carry out this assignment. I ask this question: what happens if the employee and employer have a different understanding of whether these knowledge and skills exist? If the staff member considers that it is indeed necessary to carry out this task, but that he personally cannot or cannot handle it or is not competent enough, what will happen? What happens next?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U247	There was no such debate in the Commission, not specifically discussed from this perspective. I assume this situation is similar to a situation where your work manual contains a list of your responsibilities and your understanding and your employer's understanding of them are different. For example, he thinks that this obligation means one thing, but you think it means another. In this case, it is probably a classic labour dispute. I believe that this is also relevant in this new situation. If, for example, the employer thinks that you have a certain experience or knowledge and you have a different opinion, this is a dispute that must be resolved in the same way as before the crisis. But the Commission, once again, did not discuss this in this key.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U248	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U249	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I come back to the amendments proposed by the Committee on Culture. You said that the Committee on Legal Affairs was consulted by the Committee on Culture, and I assume that it was Aadu Must, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, who was consulted by the Minister for Education. It is no secret to us that Minister Reps has, from the outset, wished to have more extensive and longer-term powers for the government in organising comprehensive school and upper secondary school examinations. Thus, since the minister was not satisfied with the consensus of the members of the Riigikogu, which was formalised by both the opposition and the coalition's ambassadors, it can still be interpreted that the minister gave the Committee on Legal Affairs guidelines, pressured the Committee on Legal Affairs. Was that so?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U250	There was a question of choice, I understand. I cannot tell you exactly what happened in the Committee on Culture, but on the subject of pressure, we have reached a common opinion here with my colleague Thomas that there has been no pressure at his home or on the premises of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Indeed, the Chairman of the Committee on Culture and the Minister for Education, who confirmed that he did not wish to withdraw his examinations, took part in the debate and was satisfied with the wording of the amendment which the Commission supported at the end of the day. I have not been pressured by anyone, and I hope that the other members of the Commission will not be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U251	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U252	Thank you. I'll come back to the same bill. The Victim Assistance Act is supplemented by a provision allowing the provision of the Women's Support Centre during an emergency and emergency situation or martial law, also to be provided by a person who has not completed further training on violence against women or a subject related to violence against women at the university. The explanatory memorandum states that they may be a grandparent, parent, brother, sister, child or grandchild of an official providing victim support, a spouse or partner, as well as a parent, sister or child of the latter. I wonder how such a provision has ever become part of our law! We also had a debate on what the representatives of asylum have written to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs, and they have said that volunteers exist, they do not need more. And when I asked the Home Office officials if there were any more rooms to accommodate all these volunteers, they said there wouldn't be any more. Would you please describe this amendment to the Victim Assistance Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U253	Thank you. If the question is how such an amendment has come into being, it was a meeting of the Thursday Commission, which you also took part in. There was a debate and then there was a vote. As a result of the vote, some amendments were approved by the Commission and some were not. And that's what happened. If you were thinking something else, please specify your question. But once again, again, I did not personally see it, but I think that all the members of the Commission were at the debate when this issue was addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U254	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U255	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I would point out that on your computer, amendments No 8 and No 9 have somehow gotten mixed up, they have no connection whatsoever. Let me remind you that there is a table behind the amendments. If there's something messed up on your computer, you can take it back here on paper, where things don't get so messy. But my question concerns the medicine law and this amendment to the draft, which, very frankly, is now actually aimed at liberalising or legitimising a branch pharmacy in Kohtla-Järve. A letter has been received today from all members of the Riigikogu, I think, in the mailing lists of the political groups. Can you explain the reason? Perhaps it would still be understandable if we were to talk about a special permit during an emergency, but this authorisation is of a permanent nature. Can you explain that and answer to the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U256	That's right. Indeed, this is not a direct crisis-related initiative. We are talking about the fact that a branch pharmacy of the general pharmacy may also come to the district if the nearest pharmacy is at least 10 kilometres away from it and there is a justified need for access to medicines in this area. In particular, we have not discussed the geographical location in the Commission. If, indeed, there is no pharmacy within a 10 km radius, the Committee on Social Affairs considered it appropriate to adopt an amendment which would enable the branch pharmacy in the area to be opened. The Committee on Legal Affairs supported the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs. Now, with regard to this letter today, for purely physical reasons we did not discuss it, as it was received after the Commission meeting. I have to admit, I haven't even read it, so I don't know how to get involved here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U257	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U258	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! My question concerns the law on foreigners, the same subject that was once touched upon in this Chamber. But I did not hear a good enough answer or argument about the fact that the head of the Estonian Employers' Confederation, Arto Aas, also sent a letter to you, in which he pays attention to the fact that they, I quote,'see the risk that, at the entry into force of the change, there will be a situation where those foreign workers who have completed one contract of employment but have already found or quickly found a new job are obliged to return to their country of origin'. Please explain in detail how the Commission dealt with this issue. Since the referrals were made, you certainly discussed this in the Commission. What was the course of the debate and what were these arguments, why did you think that this change would still make sense? In particular, given that this is not only a change to the current crisis situation, this change will remain in force on a permanent basis. What was the course of the debate, and how or what arguments have you come to believe that this is reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U259	Thank you. Indeed. There's a letter from Arto Asa. I, too, have read it, and I am personally concerned about the labour market. Now, as far as the Commission's decision is concerned, a number of amendments had been tabled to this issue. They were different and the debate was very substantive, it took quite a while. If the question is why this amendment was supported, I say it is a political agreement. This amendment received more votes in favour than against and others received more votes in favour than in favour, so they did not receive the Commission's support. Of course, the situation in the hall may be different, never knowing what will lead to life.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U260	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U261	Thank you. My second question concerns the amendment to the law on granting international protection to an alien, which states in the explanatory memorandum that if an application for international protection cannot be registered in an emergency or emergency within three days, this will be done within 10 days. With that, I think, you could all agree. However, if you read the text of the law, it turns out that the provision is slightly different than in an emergency, emergency or due to the large number of applications for international protection, it is not possible to meet this deadline. 'Great' is in itself such a relatively flexible concept, for some there are 'great' hundred people, for some ten thousand people. How do you feel about what the legislator will decide by voting on a law that says that in the case of a large number of applications for international protection, their rights may be restricted and deviations from the rules of international law may be made? Was there, for example, a large number of 100 applicants last year, or was it rather a moderate or a small number?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U262	Thank you. We have given a similar mandate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the meantime there have been exercises that simulated the fact that there will be a great crowd from somewhere and the Estonian state will not be able to cope with it. In that case, indeed, some standards could be simplified. In this case, I think 'great' still means bigger, not so big, not constantly big. The explanatory memorandum clarifies the will of the legislator, and in the Commission we did not discuss a specific number as to whether it was a hundred or a thousand. But once again, the question is not that we are abandoning these standards, but that 'three days' will be replaced by 'ten days'. The Commission has not discussed a specific number, but I think we understand the purpose of this amendment in the same way, and we hope that we will not have to implement this provision in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U263	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U264	Thank you. I will still come back to the opening of health records and the processing of personal data, which was originally covered by this draft. You said that it was the position of the initiator and the representative of the government to withdraw subsections 5 (1) and 5 (2) from the draft, which would have allowed the processing of personal data. I will read the minutes of the Committee on Legal Affairs and it is clear that a representative of the Government has justified why it is necessary that the opening of health data and the processing of personal data continue to be included. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice has found this provision problematic in his letter to the Commission and has found that this issue should not be addressed in the draft. I ask again: on the basis of which argument did the Committee on Legal Affairs consider it appropriate to take out paragraphs 1 and 2 of § 5 concerning the processing of personal data? It was a very reasonable decision in itself, but what was the argument why did you take them out?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U265	This regulation concerned volunteers who would have very limited access to data. [[???Saalist kostab: 'Ei.'???]] Please state the number of the specific amendment. Numbers 5 and 6, right? By letter from the Chancellor of Justice, we have seen the Commission at its meeting before the final sitting. Among other things, there was talk of information, of sending SMS to people when, for example, there is a need to inform those who are there in a certain area and this requires access to their location data. The consultation revealed that the initiator did not really want it in this draft. This need is obviously not lost, but the current draft concerns crisis measures and this matter was perhaps not so crisisy as to include it in the draft. There were no objections to this in the Commission either.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U266	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U267	Thank you! Good waitress! Did the Commission talk about the amendment of the law on law enforcement? In particular, a defence officer, an active member of the Defence League, is granted the right to use certain specific measures and one of the special measures the right to use of which is granted is, if necessary, the use of a weapon to stop the vehicle. I imagine the training of a military soldier in the use of a weapon is somewhat different from the training of a police officer. I'm not sure we're going to teach the Defence Forces how to stop a car with a gun and do it in the safest way possible, both for the public and for the driver. And secondly, what does it have to do with preventing the spread of the virus, when a military officer who performs this task finds that if a suspected person drives a car, he can open fire towards his vehicle? Please explain this section in more detail!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U268	Wait a minute! Valdo Randpere had his finger up for a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U269	Yeah, but let Andrei answer Raimond's question. Then I'll ask for my procedure. I don't want to interfere directly with their conversation like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U270	Okay, here's what we're gonna do. Please, Mr. Waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U271	There hasn't been a debate about the militia, but it hasn't. The link with the virus or crisis is such that human resources may not be sufficient. And in that case, for example, stopping cars with such aids seemed reasonable, but an auxiliary police officer cannot do so under the current law. This law is direct, if you do not have enough police officers, other people who have been trained but on a smaller scale may come to help. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, no, we have not discussed this directly in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U272	Valdo Randpere, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U273	Thank you. It's very procedural. President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! In fact, there was Keit Pentus-Rosimethus here, but there was a bit of a mix-up before. Since this is really a very large cluster bill, the question arose: what was then really discussed in the Commission, where nobody was and where there was nobody, who said what and whose opinion was asked. But right now, if I want to look at this protocol on the Committee on Legal Affairs, it's not up at all in the system. So my proposal is this: can we not take the President's break, leave this sitting now and continue tomorrow? Maybe tomorrow the Committee on Legal Affairs will be able to put out a record. Looking at this cluster bill, I'm really sorry about Andrei. I'm a lawyer myself, and I couldn't possibly grasp everything that's here. I imagine Andrei's having a hard time too.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U274	Can't complain. Thank you, of course, for the proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U275	There was no proposal for you, Andrei. A proposal was made to the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U276	Dear waitress, The President has been asked to take a break before any questions are taken forward. But I'm just saying that in five minutes, this hearing will end one way or another, and then it will be recess. We can agree that the Committee on Legal Affairs should submit the minutes that Valdo Randpere is currently looking for before this hearing continues tomorrow. Yes, Thomas!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U277	I, too, in fact, benevolently, but as a surprise to me, discovered that there was no record of the Committee on Legal Affairs for this seven hours of apology, six hours and 40 minutes of a sitting. Is it even appropriate to deal with this bill without a protocol on a completely benevolent issue? I cannot look at how someone voted or what those subjects were to refresh my memory. I think this is very bad practice. Do we even have the right to deal with this draft in the Chamber in the absence of the minutes of the commission's debate in the Commission? Andrei says he's saying what he said in the committee, but we can't control it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U278	Yes, Mr. Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U279	I've got a couple of problems. Firstly, is it not the case that the representative of the group has the right to take a break just before the vote? In my opinion, we are not going to vote on anything right now. On what basis did Mr. Randpere ask for a break?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U280	The Governing Board may take a break at any time if it so wishes, without any restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U281	But Valdo Randpere isn't on the board yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U282	Valdo Randpere proposed to the board, not to the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U283	But...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U284	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U285	Thank you. Yes, Andrei, this discussion is basically over your head. I am speaking to the President at the moment and I proposed to him what is the right of every member of the Riigikogu to propose that the President take a break. The manager may take a break at any time. Now, Mr President did not consider this necessary, because he thought that in five minutes' time, after four minutes' time, this session would end anyway. But let him finish now. Go find the protocol or ask the officials to complete the protocol. So tomorrow we will have a much more meaningful and exciting debate and you will have a simpler life. Now I'm talking to you, Andrei.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-14_U286	The Bureau, in its infinite wisdom, will take four minutes to recess and discuss this topic at the Bureau meeting, which will continue immediately after this meeting. Let's finish this session and start tomorrow. Let us hope that the protocol issue is resolved. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 1.57 p.m.
