ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 4th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 11th working week. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? There's no such wish. Then, ladies and gentlemen, presence control, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U2	83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U3	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law 287 on the amendment of the law on funded pensions initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the related amendment of other laws. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland Party of Aivar Kokk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We ensure a smooth exchange of data between the pension registrar, the Social Insurance Board and the Unemployment Insurance Fund in order to ensure that payments to persons with no working capacity from the second pillar of the pension are not taxed on income tax. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The beneficiary shall also be given the opportunity to transfer the amount due to him or her in his or her own pension contract. This is the payment of an additional premium. Such an entry shall be made by one insurer to another without payment to the beneficiary or, if both pension contracts are concluded by the same insurer, the money shall simply be transferred from one contract to another. Where a beneficiary makes use of this amount to pay an additional premium and thereby to increase his pension, he or she shall receive part of the tax benefit for pensioners in the second pillar and shall not be liable to income tax at a rate of 20%. The pension supplement for parents' old-age pensions will also be increased by 0.5 annual pensions and amended in accordance with the National Pension Insurance Act governing entitlement to the pension supplement. The Income Tax Act, which allows natural persons to deduct an additional amount of up to EUR 5 000 from the proceeds of the disposal of their agricultural products, in addition to the costs related to documented business, is further amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U5	Thank you. There is no more wish for negotiation by the political groups, and that concludes the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 287 on the draft, and we will go to it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is necessary for the adoption of the draft. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the law on funded pensions initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the related amendment of other laws. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U6	89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U7	Today's second item is the third reading of draft law 226 on the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Animals and Bankruptcy initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 226 and we will go to it. Ladies and gentlemen, do you need a call sign? No, it's not. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Animal Protection and the Law on Bankruptcy initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U8	88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U9	Today's third item is the third reading of Bill 120 of the Act on Fire Safety and the Amendment of Other Laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. On behalf of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U10	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Surely this is a very good and necessary law. But let us all know that when this bill becomes a law, a small house for housing, a cottage and other small relief buildings will no longer be required by the local government to ask for the approval, examination of the Rescue Board. There is certainly a competent official in many municipalities who can assess these risks. However, there are also those municipalities where it certainly does not exist, but perhaps because of political will or at the request or will of the municipality's management, this is an obligation [to assess risks]. We know how many people will move to the country in small buildings built as summer homes even during today's epidemic. If the fire safety requirements for which this local government official has not provided any training on these topics are ignored, then very, very serious accidents may occur. We have also tabled an amendment to that effect, but since it received only one vote in favour in the committee, we could not vote on this amendment in this Chamber either. Because of this small amendment, which keeps people's lives, we cannot vote in favour of this draft and therefore the Social Democratic Party will vote against the adoption of this draft at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U11	On behalf of the Group of the Toomas Kivimägi Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U12	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is undoubtedly a very ambitious draft. This ambition is not often found in the handling of different drafts in this Chamber, but this draft cannot be blamed for unambitiousness, and the Ministry of the Interior must, of course, be commended for that. These are not just cosmetic changes, but there are a number of fundamental changes here, and three of them I will present very briefly to you, one of which, according to the Reform Party Group, is still quite problematic. The first, very fundamental change with which Mr Kalvi Tõvi started, is indeed that this draft will give local authorities the opportunity to give coordination on behalf of the Rescue Board to both licenses for use and construction. This is true, then, in the case of small homes, summer homes, and garden houses. Indeed, in the course of the procedure for this draft, they also suggested that, since it is not possible to be certain of the competence of the municipalities, whether or not they are able to do this [control], perhaps only garden houses and adjacent buildings could be started. But the original version of the draft was retained in the proceedings. Perhaps once again: with this draft, local authorities will be able to give coordination on behalf of the Rescue Board to construction and permits in the case of small houses, summer houses or garden houses. I admit that this readiness and competence of local authorities is certainly very different and certainly not enough for some local authorities, but this is certainly mitigated by the fact that it is only an opportunity. This is not the responsibility of the local authorities, it is an opportunity to assume this responsibility. What is certainly important, which was also pointed out by the EKRE representative in the Commission, it is not black in white anywhere, but if the local authority takes this responsibility, it will certainly not be able to carry it out selectively, that it will do so on Juhan and that it will not do so on Jaan. If it undertakes to do so, it must be universal and the right to apply for this coordination in the local government must be open to all citizens. The second thing that will certainly significantly alleviate this situation is that the Ministry of the Interior and the Rescue Board are prepared to train and advise local authorities fully so that this competence is sufficient. But I will say once again that if we look at it from a citizen's point of view, it is certainly a positive change for him, or because of one coordination, he does not have to go from country to city or make further paperwork. So in any case, we think that this is a positive and sensible change in every way in the future. Another very fundamental change concerning a very large number of households, if we approve this draft in the hall today, is the obligation for carbon monoxide detectors from 1 January 2022, and also for solid-fired dwellings. Today, there is the obligation for carbon monoxide detectors in those residential buildings where there is gas heating, but there is no obligation for carbon monoxide detectors in solid-fired dwellings. While overall the number of fire deaths is in decline, in fact, if we look at the causes of fire deaths, whining poisoning is one of the most important causes. Therefore, even though it concerns a total of 200000 households in Estonia, it is clearly justified to make such a change. It is also important that this obligation applies from 1 January 2022, which is the possibility of purchasing and installing this carbon monoxide sensor for a very rough year. What is my concern, and I am not missing this point, is that obviously the installation of a carbon monoxide sensor is considerably more complicated than the installation of a smoke detector. It's a simple story with a smoke detector: smoke rises up and in that case it's quite natural that it's attached to the ceiling somewhere. But whining behaviour may be somewhat specific. As a rule, it will naturally sink down, but there have been very different versions here, whether it should be placed at the height of sleep, whether it should be placed at the height of the eyes... I'd like more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U13	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U14	...should he be put up at the height of his eyes or somewhere near the fireplace? So in this sense, it is extremely important for local authorities to go first and foremost to help older people, so that this carbon monoxide sensor gets in the right place. Because if the carbon monoxide sensor's in the wrong place, it's really not gonna do any good. And I certainly think that it is essential for both the Ministry of the Interior and the Rescue Board to campaign in the media to perhaps give such initial instructions, even though representatives of the Rescue Board and the Ministry of the Interior have repeatedly confirmed that it is necessary to take into account what is stated in the instructions for the carbon monoxide sensor. But, as you know, these carbon monoxide sensors are extremely different, and these instructions, as a rule, in very small writing and reading out of their house the right place to install it, I don't think it's that simple. I very much hope that I am wrong, but I want to highlight this problem once again because if the carbon monoxide sensor is installed in the wrong place, it is actually of no use. The third, most problematic change, which is certainly not supported by the Reform Party today, is that this draft imposes the obligation to carry out a mandatory fire safety review on businesses first and foremost, but it also affects municipalities and the state. It's actually about the size of 10,000 objects. 10,000 objects. I'm about to point out that there are some 88000 companies in Estonia. But this 10,000 is not the number of companies. In some enterprises, there may be more of these objects. However, it still concerns a very significant number: 10,000 objects covered by a mandatory fire safety inspection. There is no obligation on these companies today. Today, this has been done in the context of the so-called self-control report, which the companies themselves have done. They have trained a specialist in their respective field or have assigned this additional task to another employee [tasks], and these reports have also been submitted to the Rescue Board, which has reviewed these reports. By approving this law, we are indeed imposing an obligation on 10000 sites to carry out this fire safety inspection. What is very important about what makes it significantly more problematic, although it also raises quality on the other hand: only level 5 and 6 fire safety specialists are authorised to carry out this fire safety inspection. This can generally no longer be done by the corresponding employee of the same company that has so far done so. Maybe this service has to be bought, it has to be ordered. These are 5/6. There are, in fact, only 100 specialists in Category 1 in Estonia, with 10,000 objects once again. Of these 100 [specialists] 20 are employed by the Rescue Board. So at the moment, there's about 80 specialists left who have to run a survey on 10,000 objects in three years. Of course, it is also a question of price. I think that the EUR 300 proposed is clearly underestimated. I think it's going to be considerably more expensive than 300 euros per object. A total of 3 million for three years, or a million a year. I think it's about twice as much. The Chamber of Commerce is resolutely opposed to this change. Resolutely counter! We have discussed this seven times in the Commission and this agreement and this compromise have not been reached. I expect, and I think, that this draft amendment may have to come back next year. However, there are a number of fundamental, ambitious changes in the draft, which significantly improve security. The Reform Party Group will support this in the final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U15	There is no further wish for negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 120 on the draft, and we will go to it. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the draft law on amendments to the Fire Safety Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U16	82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 11 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U17	We're moving on. Today's fourth item is the political statement by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas regarding the situation in Estonia with COVID-19 disease. Before we go to this procedure, I will briefly present the procedure for dealing with this item. First of all, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas is a political statement for up to 25 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu will then have the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister an oral question and the representatives of the political groups will be able to participate in the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the fourth item. I'd like Prime Minister Jüri Ratas to speak to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U18	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu! Happy people of Estonia! Thank you for this opportunity! On 18 May, I stood here in the honourable Riigikogu Chair, saying that the emergency situation ended at midnight, but the crisis continues. I also stated at the time that the global course of the Coronavirus pandemic and the economic downturn resulting from the restrictions would affect us for a long time. Today, almost seven months later, we see that we have learned to live with this virus. We need to develop together for some time and it will be needed until we overcome COVID-19 disease with vaccines, medicines and restrictions and responsible behaviour. The second wave of the virus brought the infection figures back up throughout Europe. All countries tried to respond differently this time than in the spring and to use the experience and knowledge gained in the meantime. We still wanted to protect the health of our people in the best possible way, but to mitigate the social and economic effects of the fight. It is clear that we had to react, but not overreact. One extreme is to do nothing; the other is to completely close everything, but the right balance between these two is being sought by all countries and all societies. The adverse effects of the virus on our health, everyday life, society, livelihood and our economy are obvious. At the same time, we managed to do this together in the spring, and we have to do it now. We don't have a second chance, honourable Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As elsewhere, autumn brought with it a new wave of virus in Estonia, at first as individual cases or by a few decades, already in hundreds at the end of October. We can see from the studies that our people's perception of danger has increased again, which is an appropriate assessment. There is also a significant increase in people's awareness of existing anti-coronavirus measures. Substantially, the information of the people of Ida-Virumaa, for example, is higher than average, which is currently one of the most difficult areas in Estonia. On the negative side, two out of five people estimate that the effects of coronavir have reduced income in their families. The people of Ida-Viru County are most affected by this fall. The spread of the Corona virus has also grown rapidly in Ida-Viru county, but also in Harjumaa and Tartu county, but it has certainly increased in other Estonian counties as well. Regarding the nature of the infection, we can broadly say that more than a third of them are currently taking place in an unknown location. In a quarter of cases, it occurs in the family circle, in more than a tenth of cases at work, and in the same order of magnitude is infected by other contact. The latter includes contacts in groups of interest, events, friends, accommodation, training or other activities. We know of cases where the virus has spread in hospitals, institutions, educational institutions or has been introduced from abroad. In September and October, when it was seen that the disease spread more among the younger ones, it soon spread to the older ones. As a result, the number of people in need of hospital care and the number of deaths due to COVID-19 disease have increased dramatically. In November 47 deaths were registered in Estonia, which is eight times more than a month earlier. As of this morning, there are a total of 313 patients in hospital care, 19 of whom are controlled by breathing. A quick healing for all these sick people! The highest number of hospital admissions is in Narva Hospital, Ida-Viru Central Hospital, West Tallinn Central Hospital, North Estonia Regional Hospital, East Tallinn Central Hospital and Tartu University Hospital. Planned hospital care has now been reduced by about half and daily care by one third to half. Unfortunately, when sick people are added, these opportunities narrow. A total of 157 people have died as a result of COVID-19 disease in Estonia. There are almost 27,500 people who are ill and have close contact with them. The 14-day rate of infection per 100000 inhabitants in Estonia is 465.77. Almost 2/5 of the new infections on a daily basis are among the target groups over 50 years of age and one in six new infections is over 65 years of age. Honourable listeners! When analysing these indicators, existing and additional constraints and societal impacts, it may sometimes be difficult to understand what is in the middle of it for all of us. The head of a large Estonian government recently said that decisions do not always have to be entirely correct and correspond to reality, but they must be clear. For me, the level of ambition in this has always been even higher. I consider it important that the decisions are clear, but that they are undoubtedly correct and adequate. This crisis is constantly developing and affects all aspects of our society at the same time. We must therefore consider any limitation, any relief and the consequences of closures and openings. This will take place in very good and close cooperation between government members, officials and advisers. The role of the honourable Riigikogu, your role, is certainly very important here. We communicate with the Health Board, the Scientific Advisory Board and all relevant authorities on a daily basis in order to make measured, weighted and contextual decisions that best respond to the situation. Looking at the proposals made to the Government of the Republic of the Science Advisory Board, I can assure you, honourable Riigikogu, that most of them have also come true. Nor has the government made any decision with greater impact in the health crisis without asking for an assessment by scientists and the Health Board as well. We have also clearly trusted experts in what preparations we need to make to cope with the virus. This has been the only right and effective way. We have managed to keep our infection rates and COVID-19 death rates lower in most European countries, even during the second wave. Our goal continues to be that our health care system can withstand the pressure of growing infection and we can provide the necessary treatment for all Estonian residents - scheduled as well as extraordinary, both COVID-19 sick and others. In order to achieve this objective, decisions must also be taken which, on the one hand or on the other, may seem difficult and certainly extremely difficult. In Estonia, the infection rate R0 has moved between 1.1 and 1.2 in recent weeks. This shows that in order to reduce the spread of the virus, each of us, the good people of Estonia, must cancel every fifth contact in our daily lives. All of us will find an opportunity to do so, regardless of the restrictions in force, if that is what we want, if that will is what we have. The measures put in place by the government have precisely this simple point in mind, and it is worth recalling when you critically ask about the limitation of time or activity. In making our choices, we have tried to keep Estonia as open as possible, but to protect the health of all of us and to limit the spread of infection. We must also support people's daily livelihoods, maintain mental health, protect our economy, provide good education and work in all other ways. Honourable people of Estonia! It is important for us all to be clear and secure when we come out of the crisis. We must avoid fear, confusion and harm as much as possible. We need certainty, we need clarity and we need support. We need cooperation at all levels. At every step, we must take account of the current situation and look to the future. To this end, we have worked together with our partners and society on two fronts at the same time: the COVID-19 vaccine and the treatment and protection of health and life, until we reach them. At the same time, we have sought a balance with the economy so that the damage is minimal and the chances of the economy recovering to the maximum. This morning, we approved an initial COVID-19 vaccination plan in the government, which identifies important target groups and further arrangements for vaccination. We are preparing to begin vaccination as soon as possible. We certainly want to do this in January. We are participating in the joint procurement of European Union vaccines and are planning to join the pre-purchase agreement of all seven vaccine manufacturers involved in the procurement. Our national authorities and the healthcare system are preparing to be ready for the delivery of COVID-19 vaccines as early as next year, so that we can begin vaccination as soon as possible. With the AstraZeneca Treaty, Estonia will acquire COVID-19 vaccine for 665000 people, Janssen for some 300000 people, Pfizer for some 300000 people, CureVac for approximately 330000 people and Moderna for 117000 people. The European Union's common vaccine portfolio will dispel the risks of entanglement in the development, entry or production of any vaccine. This ensures that vaccination can start in Estonia at the same time as other countries of the European Union. According to the agreements, vaccines will be delivered to the Member States after the vaccine is authorised in the European Union, subject to a positive evaluation by the European Medicines Agency. Estonia has an agreement with manufacturers that vaccines will be delivered to the Health Board's warehouse, where the conditions for storing the vaccines will be guaranteed. Estonia will then organise a national distribution to the vaccination stations in accordance with the vaccination distribution plan. The main objective of obtaining COVID-19 vaccine and giving vaccination to Estonian residents is to protect more vulnerable groups who are more likely to become infected or for whom the disease may prove particularly dangerous, and to protect workers providing vital services in order to ensure the normal functioning of society. In the first order, we will ensure that vaccinations are available for healthcare professionals and other people working in healthcare institutions, for people living in care facilities and for workers, as well as for older people and people with certain illnesses, then, of course, for vital services and frontier workers, and then for everyone else who wants to defend themselves against COVID-19 disease. Our aim is to reduce and prevent deaths caused by COVID-19 and to give free vaccination in 2021 also to Estonian residents who do not belong to the vaccination target group. Members of the Riigikogu! In a health crisis, we must seek a balance in society and the economy. The Corona virus has not only affected human health but also economic performance. In a number of areas, activities have practically stopped. Many people have lost their jobs, economic indicators have followed the rhythm of the spread of infection. The number of registered unemployed started to increase from the start of the emergency situation and the negative trend continued until the end of May. In the summer months the number of unemployed fell somewhat, but in the autumn it increased again. As of December 10, 52404 people have been registered as unemployed in Estonia. Of course, it is good to note that unemployment has not grown as much as was expected in the spring and summer. The European Commission also noted positively that unemployment growth was lower than the recession, as policies have helped to cushion the impact of the pandemic on the labour market. The sharp positive impact of the third-quarter economy shows that the economic recovery may be faster than previously expected as the infection decreases. Therefore, the introduction of an effective vaccine can have a much stronger positive effect than has been predicted so far. On the other hand, it continues to be difficult to predict exactly the course of the pandemic in Europe and the world as a whole. It must therefore be taken into account that the spread of the disease is still dictating economic developments. The European Commission commended Estonia for the appropriate economic policy measures that helped to smooth the economic volatility. With the support of the spring measures and the efforts of the people and entrepreneurs of Estonia, we went through the recession phase much more milder than the average in the Member States. Our economic downturn in the first nine months of the year was 3.2%, which is also more than twice the Union average. On 9 December the Riigikogu adopted the state budget of Estonia for 2021. Thank you very much, honourable Riigikogu. Thank you very much for the debates that have been held and the good ideas expressed in them. This budget is facing the Estonian people. This will strengthen health care, provide better social protection, accelerate smart development with the support of research and continue to invest in the future with a green and digital turn. We can build a post-crisis Estonian economy that is greener, more digital and more resilient. We also welcome the European Union's next long-term budget and, in response to the planned re-launch facility agreement on the economic situation caused by the pandemic. The people and businesses affected by the Corona virus crisis will need additional support in the coming years. The economic recovery plan must help us get out of the global pandemic even stronger if we can put the green and digital revolution into economic service. The focus of external support will be on revitalising the human-centred economy, investing in health care, strengthening confidence and delivering major innovations. In all of this, we have also been thinking about people's livelihoods. For example, we saw that during the crisis, emergency services began to receive calls from people who simply wanted to talk about their concerns. Currently, there are 12 professional spirit holders working in Estonia who have received telephone counselling training. As a result, some 3,000 people have received help and support. In October, the government also allocated EUR 1 million to 33 Estonian municipalities to support people in coping difficulties. A total of EUR 16.4 million has been planned for support in the state budget for 2020 and we also decided to support welfare institutions in order to alleviate increased labour costs in nursing homes where the carriers of the Corona virus have been identified. This morning we reached a fundamental agreement in the government office to support people and businesses in Ida-Virumaa, concerning both entrepreneurship and recreational education, recreational activities, private education and sports activities. Entrepreneurship support also includes wage support to maintain people's jobs and incomes. We also found an opportunity to contribute to compensating for restrictions on recreational education, recreational activities, sports and private education in other parts of Estonia at the end of last week. In order to help workers and adapt to changes in the world of work, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund offers various labour market measures such as helping with job search, consulting, providing entrepreneurial training and start-up support, individual benefits and many more. It is important to invest in people's skills to ensure that society is coherent and competitive. We need to provide retraining and further training to bring our people's knowledge, skills and competences into line with the needs of a changing labour market. This is what we plan to continue next year, when we have planned the employment programme for EUR 56.7 million. Honourable listeners! This crisis is a concern of all of us. This crisis is not a matter for one, two or three counties, but it is a common concern for all of us, for society, which we can only solve in the best possible way, together. If during the spring wave certainly gave us the strength of the approaching summer, now we can count on the coming vaccines. In the spring we talked about how winning the infection requires our society, not my society. That's the way it is now. We managed to do this in the spring, and we can do it now. If everything goes as we can rightly hope for now, the next autumn will come differently in Estonia and in the world. In the meantime, we help our loved ones, our neighbors, and our friends! Let's call our moms and dads, grandmothers and grandpas! Let's hold each other! Of course, we also maintain a practical and critical mind, but this requires a clear sense of reality and a calm debate. The spread of the Corona virus remains a threat to the health of our people and to the functioning of society and the economy. That's the problem for all of us. The inhibition of the spread of the virus is in the hands of every Estonian person. It is therefore particularly important that we all follow the guidelines of health experts. The virus is spreading from person to person, and we must not give it the opportunity to pass on in order to combat its spread. One way to do that is, the honourable Riigikogu, the good people of Estonia, distance. The further we stay apart, the more difficult it is for the virus to spread. But distance alone may not be enough, or it's not always possible. We can also mitigate risks: wear a mask in crowded places, wash our hands and use the HOIA app. We use our caution and use our common sense to make sure that all of us have a beautiful, warm but safe Christmas holiday. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! A Tartu ambulance worker recently wrote very warmly that he looks at his colleagues with admiration every day. He now knows more than ever that he would trust his life and that of his loved ones with them at any time. It's a beautiful idea! Many of our frontier workers spend the coming holidays at work so that we can feel secure while entrusting ourselves to them. That is why I would like to thank from the heart all our health professionals, who are doing their hard and sometimes ungrateful work, so that we are kept and we are treated! And for the same reason, I sincerely congratulate our rescue officers, police officers, alarm personnel, teachers, social workers and health authorities, as well as government and local government officials, scientists, workers, entrepreneurs, all those who make an effort to make sure that we are all well. But I also acknowledge all the others who contribute with their daily work so that we, as a society and each and every one of us individually, can safely get through this crisis. I would also like to thank you, the honourable Riigikogu, for the many debates and all the contributions that have been made. Thank you. I wish us all strong health and wisdom for the future. A healthful and family-centred holiday season! Good luck to all of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U19	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have questions too. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In your speech, you stressed that decisions must be correct, adequate and clear. Words sound proud and big on this remote control, but where are your actions? One part of clarity is certainly the existence of a plan on how to act, and clear communication. Last week we know examples of an educational field that affects a very large number of Estonian people, that ministers are talking about one story in the morning and another in the evening. The Estonian Express very vividly reflects how incomprehensible messages are given and it remains unclear how the government makes decisions. The health department hears decisions in its field from its children and reads from the Prime Minister's Facebook page that you do not have to go to school, schools are closed. Could you please explain what happened last week? How were the decisions in the field of education taken in a situation where, at one point, ministers say that schools do not need to be closed, at the next moment they say that they must be closed, they must start a break? Nobody understands anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U21	Thank you for that question. First of all, we can always do better in communication, as you say. I totally agree with that. And that's definitely where we all have to work, including me. Now, one aspect of your question was that with health experts, I understand, you mean, above all, the decision to close schools has not been negotiated. When we talk specifically about this issue of schools, it was exactly a week ago, on 8 December, when there was again a cabinet meeting of the Government of the Republic, where the scientific council actually made its proposals, including its proposals in the field of education. When this cabinet meeting ended, I, too, said at the time, taking part in [the meeting] by video, that certainly these proposals should now be discussed today and tomorrow and in the coming days. That's what we did. We continued to discuss these principles with both the Health Board and the Scientific Advisory Board. Of course, both the Health Board and the Scientific Advisory Board were informed that the government's plan was to make a fundamental decision on 9 December, some 24 hours later, in order to reduce contacts, as a result of what the Scientific Advisory Board had put on the table on 8 December. As I am sure you and I both know, decisions in education have a very high impact, a very high weight. It was still needed to be negotiated, also at government level. And that's where the communication came from, that this decision was basically adopted as such. As a decision of the government in the form of a legal text, the decision came 48 hours later, last week on Thursday, 10 December. How will decisions be made? Decisions at government level, as I said in my speech, will certainly be taken with the input of the socialists, which we consider essential and very necessary. To this end, a scientific council led by Professor Irja Lutsar was set up immediately in this coronavirus crisis. Both to him and to all the other members of the scientific council, I am very grateful for the work they do. This job is usually on the weekends, it's usually in the late hours of the night. I have heard that their proposal, which also came in education, was born quite late in the evening hours on Monday, December 7. It is certainly very important for us to have an input that comes from the Health Board on a daily basis. And I would like to say here that the cooperation we have with the Health Board and with Üllar Lanno, the new head of the Health Board, and his team, is really everyday, communication is very intense. Yesterday, for example, we attended telephone conferences with local government leaders in Harjumaa and Tartu County, where he was also present. So there's no one place where different inputs come from. The government listens to various experts in different fields and from there it comes. And so, I guess it should be. After all, ministers give different interviews and they certainly convey their senses and their knowledge of what exists at this point in time. I think it is very important that we communicate with the public as much as possible, and through the media we can also lead to the Estonian people. Here we must say a great deal of thanks to the media, both private media and public media, who have actually very operationally communicated these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U22	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U23	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! The superpowers have said that this is the largest logistics facility in history to distribute vaccines. For Latvia, we know exactly how many doses in the first batch will come. We know about Germany, where vaccination is carried out in concert halls. This morning we were able to read in Delfi probably the same document that you handled in the government this morning, and we can't get answers to the questions. We have a general plan, but we have no knowledge. How many doses will Estonia receive in the first batch? Who in the name of the doctors-sisters carries out vaccinations? Where, at which address will the vaccination be carried out? When and what name does a person have to go there? Are there enough accessories to carry out vaccinations, such as refrigerators, syringes and personal protective equipment? These are the questions that we are all really looking for answers to. And this general talk, like this general plan, does not provide any answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U24	Thank you for this question. I'm sure I'm taking this opportunity to explain. These questions are very legitimate on your part, they are asked by everyone, every person asks. It's about 11:00 in a few minutes. My wish really was to come to the Riigikogu with the most recent and recent information, which the government has decided in its COVID meeting and committee. Today, Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik brought in the COVID-19 vaccination plan. I see no reason that this document should not be public. Of course we'll make it public. And here all the questions you are asking are actually very clear. You asked where the vaccination would take place. These sites include hospitals, family care centres, nursing homes, workplaces (primarily service providers, frontline workers with a higher risk of infection), infection clinics and vaccination offices. Now, the very serious question really is how the vaccine reaches Estonia logistically. There's also a logistical explanation here. As I said in my speech, the vaccines are being delivered to the Health Board's warehouse. The manufacturer of the vaccine is responsible for this. After that, there will be transport, distribution, within Estonia. And this distribution will most likely take place in cooperation with the private sector. Then there is a vaccination site that has its own requirements, as we know, and there are very clear requirements for vaccines. And then it's vaccinateable. I know that there should be a press conference in the Ministry of Social Affairs today on this vaccination programme, which will inform you of the exact content of the vaccination programme. This will take place today at 2.15 p.m. in the joint ministry building. Your question was also linked to the availability of accessories, syringes, refrigerators, etc. This is indeed extremely important for these seven vaccines. When all of them finally reach the vaccine status, they are maintained at very different temperatures, some need a temperature of 60 or 70 degrees, some need a higher temperature. On this point, we have made an additional decision today to ensure the cold chain of vaccines, which concerns different refrigerators and different accessories. Now, the amount of vaccines. The amount of vaccines is very specific. I also read them to you in my speech. This vaccination plan, too, actually provides for different doses of vaccines. For the seven vaccines that we want in total, this is the maximum, if all these vaccines are authorised, it will be just over 2 million people [doses], exactly [get vaccine] 2163863 people, if all the vaccines were to reach Estonia and if all the vaccines were to be authorised. What are the first-stage vaccination numbers? Our target groups are as follows: first, health professionals and people working in health care institutions, it is about 30000 people, then the staff and residents of care institutions, it is about 25,000 people, and all people over 70 years of age and people with certain diagnoses, it is now in the order of over 260,000 people. The first batch that Estonia expects in the first month is in the order of 100000 vaccines.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U25	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! George, I feel like we've run through the Riigikogu and you like a black cat. Two months ago, on 12 October, you were here with a political statement, and then we argued for a long time whether you could be asked questions. And yesterday, if we wanted you to come here and talk about the coroner, you didn't come at all. I'd like to encourage you to come here calmly, you have a lot of friends here, a lot more than you do at Stenbock's house, even though you may not believe. But I also have a specific question about these limitations and things. In the spring, you actually promised that there would be no more restrictions and that if there would be a coronation at a school, this school would be closed, not closed all schools in Estonia. But now it's happened. What's happened or changed in the meantime? My second question is specific, sports. I think there's someone out there protecting something in the government, and then this thing gets a clearer restriction or it doesn't get at all. But for example, tennis doesn't have any friends in the government. Why, for example, can tennis be played only as a single game now, but can't play doubles? Can you give me an explanation? If you think about it, it's a big field and it's not a contact sport.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U27	Thank you, good asker, good Valdo! First of all, no, I have never feared coming here before the Riigikogu; I have always considered it important and right. I think you meant the 'Estonia 2035' strategy, if indeed there was a desire to hand it over like a political statement, just as the Prime Minister will hand over the budget. Then there was a debate, I remember, here in the Riigikogu Hall, and then there was a round of questions. All the more so because it was known that in the case of "Estonia 2035," the Prime Minister would be the waitress, so in any case you could ask. I think we've solved this very quickly. Now another claim to keep education open and not close schools. There really are two major pillars that we have wanted to keep free as much as possible from restrictions throughout this whole pandemic, education and scheduled treatment. What's changed? The whole severity of the pandemic has changed, there has been an increase in the levels of the pandemic, many infected, the scheduled treatment has already begun to close, as I said in my speech, and all this is quite remarkable, it has actually reached the 'last limit' in our medical system. In order to keep our medical system still open, I mean scheduled treatment, as far as possible, had to take these steps and impose restrictions, including in the field of education for the next seven days of study, including both this week and next week Monday and Tuesday. It is also very clear in the decision that education will go back to normal regulation from the beginning of next year, unless the government decides otherwise in the meantime. Now, speaking of sport, I think that sport is now extremely important and important in order to maintain its immunity and also to maintain its mental health, because physical exercise and any physical activity are important. This can be done in certain cases indoors if it is an individual exercise. This can be done by certain, say, sports categories, if it is a master league or a major league, or by those who are members of the team, i.e. members of the Estonian team or candidates for the team, whether it is a team area or an individual area. Of course, outdoor sport is always very welcome and is not prohibited in any way. You specifically asked about tennis. So let's get to the details. And we have to go. Playing tennis is allowed if it takes the form of a single game, if it takes the form of doubles, it is not allowed. Question: why is it not allowed? That is why it is not allowed that we can reduce our contacts in this way. In sport, the drop infection also spreads quite easily, and that is why, for example, doubles are not allowed, but singles are allowed. You're a good tennis player, I know such sharp shots and a good choice of place. So I think you're gonna have to make some effort for these few weeks, do a single game, and then you're gonna be able to play doubles in your tennis again. I wish you as many aces as possible during the serve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U28	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! We have, on several occasions, offered assistance in terms of substantive inclusion by the opposition and made proposals for a more concrete plan. We have read very specific plans for a number of countries, including vaccination, for example. The two groups actually asked you to come to the Riigikogu yesterday. You indicated that you wanted to come with the latest data. Unfortunately, it gives the impression that you didn't want to come until you were able to send out to the public a plan concerning vaccination. It's finally come. But as we can see, it is not very specific. A good colleague has already asked and referred to logistics. Indeed, we cannot influence the arrival of the vaccine and its release on the market, but logistics is clearly more than just a medical task, given the temperature to be maintained. This is the fragmented vaccination that you have just described. In circumstances where there is a very clear need to ensure the temperature of the vaccine, would it not be more sensible to have centralised vaccinations, which means that the points are public, as is currently the case with tests, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U30	Thank you. I think this vaccination programme is very specific and very good. I am sure to ask you, too, to familiarise yourself with this plan, it is very specific and very clear. Now, as far as vaccination is concerned, we also know that there is now, for example, a strong debate in Germany on whether to place vaccines on the market and authorise them before Christmas. It is currently known that the first vaccine should come on 29 December. The big debate and debate in Germany is about why this should not be done on 23 December, which could provide a theoretical opportunity for vaccines to reach Estonia at the end of the year. I think this plan is very clear. Yes, I really wanted to come to you with a specific plan, a specific plan. This scheme is public, it can be read. So that was one reason. Second reason. We made a lot of fundamental decisions today, which were actually linked to the same restrictions that we put into effect on 10 December. For example, to support, as I said, recreational education, recreational activities and sport in Ida-Virumaa as well as across Estonia. We also want to support entrepreneurship, also in Ida-Virumaa, which is currently closed. What we want is for entrepreneurship to move forward and for as many jobs as possible to be preserved. We know that the restrictions of Ida-Virumaa in the business sector are very large, massive. Today, we have decided to support entrepreneurship in Ida-Viru County with an amount of 2.1 million. I think this is a very fundamental and big decision to give the entrepreneurs of Ida-Virumaa a guarantee of progress. Adults with 3 million in size, activities in Ida-Virumaa as well as Estonia, sports in Ida-Virumaa and Estonia, activities in the interest of children and young people in both Ida-Virumaa and Estonia, private education in both Ida-Virumaa and Estonia. So it's all three million. I also introduced Mrs Riisalo to the question that today we also decided to allocate money to the same refrigerators and accessories that are needed to preserve the vaccines so that when the vaccines arrive, they would be there. They already exist in Estonia. To accelerate this process, a government decision was needed today. The government also decided today to allocate a little more than a million or, let's say, a size of 1 million in order to proceed with the testing. Testing has become very intense in Estonia and it is, of course, good to be tested, but this level of intensity should be maintained. It was today's fundamental decision. A decision was also made on the assessment of the measures and the continuation of the measures. We know what I said in my speech that many nursing homes where the Korona has entered actually come to the aid of the government. We come to the aid of helping with both labour costs and personal protective equipment. Today's decision was to allocate EUR 107301 to the Ministry of Social Affairs for nursing homes, such as Tammiste Nursery, Kuressaare Hospital, Halinga Shelter, Viru Hospital, Tapa Pihlakodu, Rapla Nursery, Lihula Nursery, Saaremaa Heart House, where COVID-19 disease has come in. This, too, I considered it important to share with you, the honourable Riigikogu. If we come to these vaccines again, indeed, in the first quarter of 2021, we want to vaccinate in the order of 100,000 inhabitants. This also depends on how many vaccines are placed on the market. And no particular delivery, as far as I know, can be agreed at the moment, so that we agree on a specific delivery, how many vaccines in this truck or plane are there yet, because there are no European Union marketing authorisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U31	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! This is a good thing to continue on the same subject, because you said that no marketing authorisation exists yet. As we know, Estonia has joined the European Commission's joint procurement for the purchase of COVID-19 vaccines. You have also said here today that the European Commission has concluded these pre-purchase agreements with seven companies, and there is even such information that 1330000 doses of vaccine have been stored for Estonia, i.e. two doses for over 600,000 people. There's a chance that by the end of the year, as you said, some more vaccine will arrive. But no vaccine candidate has yet been authorised in the European Union, as you said. Please repeat: is it true when these vaccines will be authorised and what opportunities will Estonia have to manage this whole process of obtaining vaccines itself if we are involved in joint procurement by the European Commission? Or are we just going along with the current and waiting for them to come?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U33	Thank you. Yes, it is true that, at least at this point in the morning, no marketing authorisations have been issued. When do they get them? As I said, we had information that the first permit could come on December 29th. New information came in last night: there are serious negotiations today to allow the marketing authorisation to arrive before Christmas, or on 23 December. How it goes will be shown in the coming days. Now forward, the dosages. When we're talking about the two main vaccines that we expect the most, these are Moderna and Pfizer, there's a little bit more than 835000 in total. This means that vaccinations can reach 418000 people in size if the production of Moderna and Pfizer is available in Estonia. Your question was, are we just going along? No, it's not! Estonia has been discussing these matters for months. We have done so within the framework of the Council, and I have personally dealt with it, and we have discussed basically every two weeks in order to have logistics, transport and distribution key in place. It's not that whoever is, I don't know, a bigger or more prosperous country, gets faster, and whoever's smaller and not so wealthy gets slower. It's not like that. This distribution key has been specifically made by the European Commission. I don't know how exactly other countries are doing, but I think most countries, like Estonia, have actually joined the pre-orders of all these seven vaccine candidates. The order of magnitude, together with the same supplies, is EUR 36 million if everything should go in such a way that these vaccines come on the market at one point. Of course, there are always very high risks, as some vaccine candidates may never reach vaccine status and marketing authorisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U34	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Today, indeed, the long-awaited vaccination plan was announced, which we have been asking about here a long time ago, but I am not getting all the answers from there, and I am not getting all the answers from it now. For example, I don't see a schedule for the delivery of vaccines there, it's just total volumes. We've just heard from you that there will be 100,000 doses in January. But is this the first week of January or the last week of January? Latvia, for example, has known the quantities in January. If there are no supply volumes, say there are none, it will be as it happens. Or, if so, why is this delivery schedule not included in the plan? I'm gonna ask my second question right now. I'm not gonna get it all. Are there private medical institutions and clinics on the list of primary vaccination sites or only hospital and family medical centres?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U36	Thank you. On delivery, I have already replied to you in advance that since we have not been able to agree on any specific deliveries so far, because there is no marketing authorisation, that is why no one can now say these specific quantities. I understand what you're asking: how many thousand will come on Friday and how many thousand will come on Saturday and how many thousand will come on Monday? If you say that Latvia has all the plans, I really doubt that. Latvia takes the same account of these seven vaccines, especially those of Moderna and Pfizer. Now your second question is where you can vaccinate. Like I said, first places are hospitals and family doctor centers. It is already automatically, you can say, most family medical centres are private service providers. Then there will be nursing homes and jobs, as I said, precisely those places where vital services are provided, as well as the infectious clinic or vaccination offices. So all the possibilities I've just read, we're gonna use.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U37	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U38	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, thank you for your speech. But this speech also raised a lot of new questions. A lot of new questions. My question is actually driven by this article in the Estonian Express, which talks about the Health Board and confusing communication. Why don't we just go over it for a second? On Wednesday, a staff member of the Health Board received a call from a child who announced that he did not have to go to school. The child added that he had read it from the post of Prime Minister Facebook. Similarly, the entire Health Board became aware of the restrictions. By Wednesday, new restrictions had appeared that spread through social media, not from official government channels. The phones of the health department, of course, were throbbing because they didn't have any answers. Both Minister of Social Affairs Kiik and Minister of Education and Science Aab provided conflicting information at the same time: one said that the break should not be started, but the other did not see the problem. The point of my long description is how the Health Board, who has such an important and complex task in front of the entire nation, has been deprived of correct information. They have to find it on social media somewhere. These officials don't deserve this mess.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U39	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U40	How do you explain this situation anyway? So, what's your plan with the Health Board now?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U41	Thank you, Heidy Purga, for this very important question. I totally agree with the fact that the Health Board is doing a very grateful job, there are very dedicated people. I think that current communication and, let's say, cooperation I remember very well in person from the spring moment or spring time and how it was then really working very well. My compliments to the new Head of the Health Board. The health department should be working, if I'm not mistaken, about 250 people. I really don't know what to say about the phone calls from the employees' children to my mom or dad who works at the Health Board. But I don't have to do that. Second, is the Health Board involved? The Health Board is involved in all government decisions. We're relying on input from the Health Board. I continue to think that this decision on schools was the right one. At that point, everything needed to be done to reduce contacts. This was the main reason for the increase in infection rates among children at different levels of school. This has been confirmed by the Health Board. If you're asking me who I'm mainly talking to at the Health Board, I'll say I'm communicating with regional leaders. Yesterday, for example, I had contact with the leader of the eastern region, as well as with the leader of the southern region. If you specifically ask about the decisions of 8 and 9 December, there was the Health Board all the time in front of his head. Üllar Lanno supported these decisions, he thought they were right. Now what you say about communication. Basically, the decision from the start was that the educational establishments will close on 14 December, but in certain areas we offer further learning activities. In my opinion, we have discussed the same Olympics, consultations, traineeships, teaching children with special educational needs, for example, in this Chamber. And that continues to be the case, these things can be offered in the school building further. But in order to bring down these infections, it was decided so. After all, the question was not only that the increase in infection among young people was so significant, but we all realize that young people are going home at one point, where they meet their parents or grandparents. As I said, we can see that, especially among older people, there among people over 65 years of age, infection rates have increased very strongly. And that's a very big sign of danger. This is a very heavy pressure on us and, with a certain time shift, on the hospital system. Of course, we must also say that, unfortunately, very many people who leave are dying because of the COVID-19, namely older people. So people's lives and health must be protected. Could communication be better? Communication can always be better, but I do not agree with this criticism in any way if you rely on this article of the Estonian Express. Those journalists didn't call me, I think the article was there, I don't know, three or four or five journalists. I don't know why they didn't call me. But never has the Health Board been excluded from these decisions, on the contrary, they have been involved all along. For example, on Wednesday morning, when we were negotiating and discussing these restrictions, Professor Iria Lutsar, the chairwoman of the scientific council, was discussed and informed. So this is all really going to work very closely together. The meetings will only take place on Tuesday or Thursday, but on the phone, we basically have seven days a week.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U42	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You spoke well in general and quite little about the situation of the unemployed. In addition to the fact that people are losing their jobs, we are becoming increasingly affected by the following problem: the prescribed unemployment benefits are coming to an end. Each month there are about a thousand people, perhaps even more, who fall on unemployment benefit, which is currently only 180 euros, or income support. With this money, you don't pay a bank loan or anything. People's lives are actually going to be a pretty big disaster. This issue needs an urgent solution. In the spring, the Minister for Social Affairs said that extending the period of unemployment benefit in a crisis situation is one measure that the government could come up with. No, you didn't. Will the government now come to the Riigikogu with this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U44	Thank you. First of all, in this very difficult health and economic crisis, I think we need to look at this brighter or positive side for a moment. And this is that Estonian society has actually been very good. We have really done well, people have made an effort, and now we have to make an effort, take an even greater step. Infections are increasing, the spread of the disease is increasing. We have to consider that we have to take an even greater step, but we must not forget the positive side that is every day, and that is actually quite a lot. As I said, we can only overcome this crisis by acting together and together as our society. You're saying I wasn't specific. I brought you today, in particular, the most recent information that came from a government level. With more than EUR 5 million, we support because of the restrictions decided by the government on 10 December. Over $5 million! And mostly there are private non-profit institutions in this area, which provide an interest education, with coaches with teachers with tutors, this is their support. There is also private sector support for Ida-Virumaa, which is actually directly linked to providing certainty for the company. If we can overcome this limitation, they can move forward with their actions, and to move forward with their actions, people are needed. So the most important thing, in my opinion, is to try and keep this balance between the health crisis and the economic crisis at all times and to do everything possible to ensure that, in fact, this unemployment rate increases as little as possible. The unemployment fund's estimate of the number of unemployed, which I also brought to you in my speech, yes, I did not say numerically, but I can now say that in the spring there were 100,000 110000 unemployed by the end of the year. Today we see that fortunately it has not been fulfilled. Yes, we are not at the end of the year, but there are currently over 50,000 unemployed, which is, of course, a large number. In my opinion, these restrictions should touch on just as long as we do not make any kind of support in Ida-Virumaa, about 1300 people. A little more than 1300 people in more than 200 companies are affected by this restriction, one, the other or the third. To give this fortress that they can move forward is, I think, very important, very important. That is, in fact, what I think is most important, so that people do not fall into [poverty], do not become unemployed. Now, when you say that unemployment benefit, income support, we have made certain decisions on increasing benefits both from the middle of this year and from the beginning of next year. If you ask about a specific plan, I will certainly specify all of this with the Minister for Social Affairs and I will also pass on this question to him.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U45	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You rightly said that doing sport keeps a strong immune system. In addition, movement in the fresh air and sporting activity also have a very good effect on our mental health. But I don't think that's the only thing that's gonna make it. The problem right now is Ida-Virumaa. The whole of Ida-Virumaa is locked and smaller municipalities like Lyganuse, Alutaguse, have been locked, although their infection is very low. But my question is whether and how you support entrepreneurs in Ida-Virumaa. They have a very big problem right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U47	Thank you for this question. Do we support you? Answer: Yes, we support. I think that if we make any restrictions on the government's side, then we actually have to make an effort to support it. I don't think that's an automatic obligation. But we have really, in these two waves, very much directed taxpayers' money back into the economy, into business, that businesses have the hope that when the crisis is over, they will continue to operate. And they'll recover faster. To this end, the European Union has actually come to the aid of a re-launching plan. Very large subsidies are in particular for the economy, business and various reforms. Now Ida-Viru County, your question. In particular, we decided this morning in the government, as was my request already on Friday, when I proposed to the Chairman of the Riigikogu and the Executive Board that, if at all possible, I would like to come before you on Tuesday. I am grateful to the President of the Riigikogu, the Executive Board and to you for the opportunity that I have actually been able to come with fresh information. As I said, it is in the order of EUR 2.1 million. It is, let's say, within this month, if these restrictions apply. I want to say on the other hand that we have to consider, as I said, that 5 million are all of these restrictions together. This includes recreational education, sport and recreational activities, not only in Ida-Virumaa, but also across Estonia, which are currently under restrictions, taking into account the decisions of the Government of the Republic of 10 December. We also have to take into account, of course, that all these restrictions, if we want to support them, are very expensive if we want to support them. They're very expensive financially. And with that, we must always take into account that any restriction we do, if we have a desire to support at the same time, means very large sums of money. We must take into account that if at one point we do such restrictions in our big cities, such as Tartu or Tallinn, these numbers will grow over and over again. So yes, we have a real desire to support entrepreneurship in Ida-Virumaa. Today we also decided that due to the restrictions imposed on 10 December 2020 by the Government of the Republic in favour of the companies that suspended the activities in Ida-Virumaa, the amounts that are visible will be distributed among the companies on the basis of the input of this year's wage cost, this November. And as I also answered the previous question here, there should be 204 companies that we then support in Ida-Virumaa and over 1300 jobs that are linked to this 204 company.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U48	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U49	Thank you very much. However, Prime Minister, I will come back to this vaccination programme. Alena Buyx, President of the German Ethics Council, has already presented two weeks ago, on 1 December at the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe's Social and Health Committee, a detailed vaccination plan for Germany. There has already been so much talk about Latvia today that I will no longer touch it. Why did Estonia take so long now? We didn't get anything on the page of the Health Board until today before you came here, and as a comment, it still says it's the original plan. And that's what I want to ask you about. You speak so inspiringly of cooperation with members of the Riigikogu, but has any member of the Riigikogu ever been involved in the development of this vaccination plan? Who's in charge, and who's in charge? Has anyone from the Estonian Bioethics Council, for example, participated in the development of this plan? Talk about who the people who worked out this plan are and who will run it. I don't know if it's a committee or what. I read somewhere that a steering group or something called it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U50	Thank you. Who's running it? The Ministry of Social Affairs manages it and the Minister of Social Affairs is responsible for it. What took you so long? I don't think it took a long time. I think it was done very thoroughly. As the Minister of Social Affairs does, he did so very thoroughly and with everyone involved. At the same time, I think it's got a good plan. You see, it says the target of vaccination against COVID-19 and the target groups for vaccination. Vaccinators and vaccination sites against COVID-19 are also very clear. The way this is done is specifically described in the vaccination plan. So I think it's all written down. Communication is also written here. You said it was the original. This plan will, of course, be improved. If we don't have any marketing licenses today, you can't say you see, there's a hundred percent completed document here. After all, this is something that needs to be improved in order to work, and that makes a lot of sense. If you're asking who was part of the development team, I don't have those names available right now. I'm sure I'll ask for those names to be passed on to you. Were there members of the Riigikogu? I believe that the Ministry of Social Affairs also consulted the Riigikogu. I'll let you know the list after my performance today. I'm gonna write down that note.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U51	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U52	Good President! Good Prime Minister! I'm worried about Ida-Viru County, too. I guess you've noticed, and on social media, you've seen this sarga car parked here near Toompea Castle, which should take Ida-Viru companies to the cemetery. Therefore, the allocation of 2.1 million by government decision is, of course, a very big step. Understandably, after the first joy, it is said that late and little, but it is also quite an expected reaction. I am more concerned about transparency and about the fact that there will be specific requirements for these companies. The important thing is that they don't take any steps in a hurry now, because later it may become apparent that they don't qualify, they won't fit through that door. I realized from what you said that it wasn't until early January, but it seems like a very long time now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U53	Thank you. First of all, yes, late and little, etc. I think that this criticism must always be taken seriously. As far as I am concerned, if we take the key characteristics of the sector that were affected by the limitation of 10 December, such as accommodation, catering, creative, artistic and entertainment activities, sports activities, libraries and museums, then, on the basis of December 2019, there should be money when we talk about turnover in this sector, 2.77 million. Well, it's clear that the turnover, of course, gives us some kind of identity. The year 2019 was different from the year 2020. And there is always a question of whether support should be 100%. I don't think it has to be 100%. But when we give support to entrepreneurs, I think it must be enough to give them faith: from this crisis we come through, we come out stronger and we can go forward stronger. Yes, he is concerned, for example, with accommodation in the order of more than 150 companies, and catering in a very large number of companies. So we have the data. In my opinion, this support should be as flexible as possible, in the sense that the company can then look at the costs it spends in order to continue its activities, whether it is rental costs, leasing costs or some sort of utility costs. I don't know, maybe somebody has some investment costs that definitely need to be done now, or it's labour costs to keep people on the payroll. This, I think, should be decided by this entrepreneur himself. If you are asking when this specific regulation and regulation will come, I very much hope that this week will come. I hope that it will be in place in due course by Thursday at the latest. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is currently working on this, both Taavi Aas and Raul Siem and, of course, officials are working to negotiate with business organisations in Ida-Virumaa and find the best solutions. Now, I also want to say here in the Riigikogu Chair that if these restrictions are made, they are not made for fun. If someone's looking for ways to get away from these restrictions and makes some kind of scheme, so at some point, I don't know, for example, a tavern turns into a church, I don't think it's the right place. We need to understand that we are in a very serious health crisis, in an extremely serious health crisis, including the economic crisis, and in fact we all need a joint effort. But yes, the concrete measures you asked about will not come at the beginning of January, but I hope this week. When I said Thursday, it should mean December 17th.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U54	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U55	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I'm asking about the vaccination program. What I've managed to get out of the portals now is on six pages. I'm just going to give you a look back to 1992 when we did the money reform. At that time, to determine how many money exchange points were needed, it became measured how much time it would take for a single exchange of money. My question to you is: do you also have a detailed plan by hospital, family doctor's and other vaccination stations, for example, where and how many people are vaccinated? For example, how much time does it take to vaccinate 100,000 people in Estonia? If there is such a plan, I think it would be appropriate for it to be presented in detail in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. My second question relates to communication. As of today, less than half of the people in Estonia are ready to get vaccinated. What have you done and are going to do to get the rest of the party ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U56	Thank you. I'm certainly not going to say in front of you how many seconds or minutes it's going to take for vaccination. In this we still trust the medical staff, the professionals and experts in our field. As I said, today at 2.15 p.m., the Ministry of Social Affairs will also issue a press conference to my knowledge on this subject. Is there another scheme? No, that's the plan that's here right now. I'm sure this plan will improve every day. We get new information all the time. After all, we have come back today with new information that we want the vaccine to be placed on the market faster if it is possible and if the corresponding permits are obtained. It's also gonna change what we do, but we're ready for it. Estonia is ready for vaccination and that is the most important thing. That's all that matters. Now, you're saying 50% wants to vaccinate and the other 50% doesn't. The principle is, in my opinion, that all this vaccination must be voluntary and remain voluntary. It's every individual's decision. It's Andres' decision, and it's Jüri's decision, it's Mari's decision, and it's Kadri's decision. That's right. Now, I don't know where you're gonna take that 50%. At the moment, I know that about 59% of the Estonian population have said that they are willing to be vaccinated. 59%. Now, about 20% is between them whether they do it or not. And 20% of the Estonian population says that we do not want to be vaccinated. So this is what it is right now. The vaccination plan is public and, as far as I know, it has also been sent to the members of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. That's what you were worried about. Of course, after today's performance, I will also tell the Minister for Social Affairs that the Social Affairs Committee has a desire to listen to him and that he should give an overview of the vaccination plan. I think he'll be willing to come to you in the next few days and give you some information. That's the way it should be. More specifically, at the end of November, as far as I know, the Head of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs introduced the anti-choona virus vaccination plan that was still under development to the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. So this cooperation has also taken place between the Ministry and the Commission. But if you really want the Minister to come here to the Commission today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, he will certainly be ready for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U57	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U58	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! You said at the press conference in the Government on 5 November: "The government's aim is, of course, to prevent this spread of the corona virus by means of measures that enable our scheduled treatment to be kept open, which will enable our educational establishments to proceed with regular training and to keep society as functioning as much as possible. " A week ago, in Question Time, Martin Helme also confirmed that the virus would be blocked with precise restrictions while in charge of the Prime Minister's duties. The fact that restrictions are getting crooked and against schools has never been publicised before. How does this coincide with what you said in your speech today that all measures to prevent the virus must be clear? And how well have you achieved this goal of 5 November to keep schools open, planned treatment open and social life functioning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U59	Thank you. I think, of course, my statements may take on October 5th or July 5th or August 5th, but we still have to understand what time we live in. I will also say today, looking right at you here, so: my wish is to do everything in order for education to be open and planned treatment to be one hundred percent open. But I know that this is no longer realistic, it is no longer possible, because the trend of the virus has gone very strongly up across Europe. Estonia has so far, I would say, thanks in particular to our inhabitants and our sense of society, managed to do this relatively well compared to other European countries. But, of course, everything is on very gentle ice right now, and things can change in days. We see some countries that have raised their infection rate several dozen times in a week, so there is certainly nothing to cheer about. In this sense, I think it is up to us all to make an individual effort and also to make an effort as a society. So if you ask me if I'm gonna stick to my words, of course I'm gonna stay! But we're in a different moment today. We're in the second moment. When I went to Ida-Virumaa the day before last, the hospital in Narva was basically filled with 27 COVID patients from 140 wards. Now that number's going to vary between 35 and 39. Right now, we're in a different situation. The real question is that if they do a new department, the COVID department, there is physical ability, but that automatically means that we don't have enough nurses, we don't have enough doctors, and that in turn means that these people will have to be taken away from scheduled treatment and the scheduled treatment will close. That's why we have to do this moment today. If you say that decisions must be adequate and clear, then I also say that yes, the scientific council also came before the government on 8 December. There was a proposal to take schools to distance learning, with the exception of primary schools and kindergartens. In principle, this decision was largely the case. Schools are closed, but those who wish to continue distance training. Kindergarten and childcare are open. Yes, the Health Board said that since the infection is spreading in the first grade, prevention measures must be in place to prevent future spread of infection and it is reasonable to close all classes at school, 1 to 12. I just spoke to the head of a very large school, and he said very nicely that if we have a health crisis and an economic crisis, there is no possibility that there will be no crisis in other areas. Of course, closing schools is bad; it is a very bad situation in normal circumstances. But we are also definitely in a crisis in education, in any case we are in a crisis. We must come out of here together and united with as little losses as possible. All areas will be touched by one, the other or the third.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U60	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U61	Thank you. Prime Minister! The main question is not whether Narva will open a new COVID department or whether we will take the sick people to the University of Tartu Hospital until we can do so. The main question, however, is how you let this happen. November 5th is not a random date. Then you were shown prognosis, one of which says there would be 400 people in the hospital for Christmas. It was known to you on 5 November, and then you set the goal that Riina Sikk was already talking about. However, you could be a little more critical of your own actions over the past 40 days. My question, however, concerns your claim that the economic impact should be minimal, it is set as one objective. Based on what analyses has such a strategy been chosen? For example, an analysis has been submitted to the Finnish Government, which shows that rapid and more stringent measures, which can come out quickly, actually have a better economic impact than this long-term drive with less restrictive restrictions. On the basis of what analysis do you think that long-term travel with fewer restrictions over several months, over three or four months, is better for the economy than a shorter and tougher period?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U62	Thank you, Honourable Evgeny. Sweet Evgeny! I've read your very critical and sharp comments that you're actually throwing at me right now. But, of course, I've never been afraid of responsibility. I said this during the first wave and I will also say today that, in the end, the Prime Minister will, of course, bear responsibility for the success or failure of this crisis. Of course. The government's executive egg has been set up to make the most operational decisions possible and to do everything possible to prevent this virus. Whether it's catastrophic, as you say, is the decision of every human being. And that's actually what we're looking at. Once again, thanks to the efforts of the people of Estonia, our society and, I would say, our common sense, we are not in the worst position today. Yeah, the same thing you just said before I said that situation could change every day. God forbid it's gonna change! I work for it every day, as much as I have the expertise, as much as the government has the know-how, as much as the scientific council has the expertise, as well as the Health Board, as well as you. I think we need to look more for this cooperation, me for my part, you for our part. You may have taken out November 5th, but we have three different scenarios in the projections that the scientific council is making. There are usually three different scenarios of the number of patients with COVID in hospitals after two or three months and the mortality rate. A decision must be made on this basis. And that's why the government is actually making these decisions, which scenario we're going to go on or not going on with. The next half of your question is about closing the economy. I understand that your point is that if you make a strong closure in the short term and then open it up, it will actually be milder for the economy, it won't get tougher and it'll get over faster. If Estonia were a completely isolated island, it would perhaps be conceivable. But we're not an isolated island. And it has never been my wish to isolate Estonia. Theoretically, this possibility exists for the countries now, which can be completely locked down. We haven't done it. Really, we haven't, and I still think we're not. Now, does it result from examples from other countries that if we do a complete closure ♪ I wouldn't use the English word lockdown here, then we'll be out of this crisis in a few weeks, and these numbers will be better? It hasn't always been like this. There are very many examples of European countries where it has not done so. I just spoke to the Lithuanian Prime Minister, who resigned last week, the previous Prime Minister. He also said that they make a lot of decisions, different, very strong decisions, but you see, the infection rates don't come down, they're still very, very high. I hope Lithuania is doing well, and we'll keep our fingers crossed so they can get these numbers better. So I think it is very difficult to compare yourself with one, another or third country. I have heard that some have begun to compare one county, one region with other European countries. That's the wrong comparison, and I don't think it's gonna do anything. So where does this input come from? The economic input comes from the government, it comes from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it comes from specialists, it certainly comes from EAS and KredEx. So that's where the input comes from. After all, I had a meeting in the spring, I think 17 to 18 Estonian entrepreneurs from different fields and researchers from different universities. We got back together now, yes, most of us were online. The entrepreneurs said that the government has done well, that it has hit this balance well. Those were their words. It is not that I wish to praise myself or the government here, but that was their words. Of course, this balance is our goal. In fact, we must also consider that we do not want complete closures and then such openings. And actually we see it, good Evgeny, that this idea of yours, to make a complete closure, say, a couple or three weeks, and then opening up, actually doesn't stabilize infection. It doesn't stabilize infection. It leads to a new wave, a new cycle. But, of course, I understand your call to keep the economy. On the other hand, we keep employment, which is also very important for the state budget, and it is also important to keep the medical system up, to keep the health system up. We know today that there would have been a deficit in the Health Insurance Fund next year, even if it hadn't been for your decision, over 150 million minor accidents or less tax receipts. That means less treatment. We have decided on a government level that we will compensate for it with over 500 million for the next four years. Thank you, Evgeny, for those good thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U63	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U64	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I guess all the restrictions that have been mentioned here today are a burden on society, and the sooner we get out of them, the better. But the only realistic way to get out of these restrictions permanently is if we get the majority of the population I cannot say that one hundred percent, but most of the Estonian society is vaccinated. It is known that Estonia participates in the joint procurement of the European Union, and so do all other countries of the European Union. It all makes perfect sense. However, it is also known that many other countries are trying to speed up this process in parallel so that their people can still get protection for this vaccine as soon as possible and therefore their society will be opened as soon as possible. My question is: what is the plan of the Estonian Government just as it was not included in this vaccination plan, in parallel to the joint procurement of the European Union, to receive direct contacts and to receive vaccine doses for the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U65	Thank you. Estonia participates in the joint procurement process of seven vaccine candidates proposed by the European Commission. I think that's a sensible approach. Estonia is constantly working with its partners, we have cooperation from 27 Member States to ensure that the vaccine is secure, it is reliable and we can get the vaccine on exactly the same basis as possible with other countries of the European Union. True, there are some countries that have started vaccination, but I do not know any Member States of the European Union who would have started vaccination without this marketing authorisation being issued. Yes, I know that the UK, which is not a country of the European Union, has begun. He's really started. Yesterday, I met with the British Secretary of Defense, yes, they've started it. I know the United States has begun. But the European Union has taken a second position, and I think it is the right position for Estonia: we are also waiting for a marketing authorisation. On the one hand, what you say, Mr. Clothes, is very correct. The restrictions are burdensome and the vaccine helps to remove the restrictions. Yeah, that's right. However, the vaccine must be safe; it must be reliable. In this sense, Estonia has always, constantly, said its word in relation to the development and financing of vaccines. For our part, as much as Estonia has been able to support research and development, already during the spring wave. So we've done it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U66	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U67	Thank you. Prime Minister! In Finland, nearly half of the population has downloaded the Koronaäpi Koronavilku, and in September and October almost 40% of the corona positives reported their disease in the Coronaäp. In any case, a very exemplary performance. In Estonia, previously in one of the most technologically friendly societies, only 227000 people have downloaded the app, which is 17% of the population. Even sadder: In total, the app has identified itself as ill by 1,400 people, the number of people infected for three days, within four months. Can you explain why the government has failed to work as an effective anti-epidemic tool?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U68	Thank you. I'm sure it was an app, is and will remain a volunteer. I've always stressed that. Of course I recommend it. In today's speech, I said that this HOIA application is sensible, and it is a measure of very many confidence measures, but it is now necessary to use different options. So there has been a call, but the people themselves will decide if they're gonna ship it under this app and whether they're gonna use it, because it's not enough to download it, it's gonna need to keep that blue tooth inside to make this app work. So, Mrs Heljo Pikhof, in a good way, I would also appeal to you: let the people know as much as possible that they will use this app safely. I think it's a confidence measure, but it's not some magic wand or magic key, that if it does exist, now all the troubles are broken. We have a lot of confidence measures, right, but the main thing is to keep a distance. But of course, the more people download and use this app, the better anyway. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U69	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U70	Thank you. A lot of people don't agree with me, but I think your government's current decisions are much smarter than the spring. But many agree with me that your communication and tone are still bad. You will not personally offer the goose fat that you have defended here in the Riigikogu several times, nor will you say that there is too much of a corona death. But this tone, like you're making a party speech or a winning speech, really doesn't fit in on this subject, as well as quoting yourself. The most bizarre thing about this autumn has been, in my opinion, that your comments and, above all, your ministers do not match the government's decisions. This is something that I and many others, including many journalists, have noticed, and it has also been written about how views have changed. Tell me if you agree that words and decisions don't add up a few days apart. Or do you think it's okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U71	Thank you. I'm sure I'll say it's gonna be better. I've said that many times. If you ask me if everything's okay, I'll tell you it always gets better. If we look at whether everything is well in this crisis, it is not well. It is not well in the health crisis, it is not well in the economic crisis, but we are making every effort to ensure that there is as much information as we can to make as many right decisions as possible. Everything can never be good in a crisis. You can never be all right. Now the key messages that I want to say. I think the key messages at week 51 that we've said down are as follows. First of all, we're gonna have a tough week ahead of us, we're gonna have to hold on. The infection with the Corona virus is growing and the Estonian medical system is at risk of overload. Second, we're helping the medics save lives. That was also the last paragraph of my speech, where I really said that health professionals are doing an incredible job. I'm grateful to them for that. We will respect the measures put in place in the country. It's been a hard year for everyone. This year has been very difficult because of the corona virus. So we care about each other, let's not spread the virus and help those who need help. Third, we're reducing contact. Let's call off the parties. I think Christmas should also take place in the family circle this year. Christmas Day in your family's circle. We're avoiding crowded places. I also said that if we each made an effort and did 20% less meetings today than we did yesterday, if we did 20% less tomorrow than we did today, it would help very much to prevent the spread of the virus. What we're saying is that everyone has to try to stop this corona virus from spreading. Like I said, let's spend Christmas at home in a tight family. The less we go to trade, the better. And there are quite a lot of good opportunities for this in Estonia, such as ordering food and goods over the Internet. So these are specific messages. If you ask, Mr. Ligi, if you can do better, I'll say that you can always do better. Of course you could do better. One questioner said that many leaders in large countries have said that this is a crisis of the century in Europe. That's what I'm saying. This is certainly one of the most difficult crises in Europe, I fully agree with that. No one has much knowledge of how to deal with this crisis either. We have as much knowledge as we got in the spring. In fact, this is the knowledge and experience that we make decisions. Now we have taken a slightly different approach to this crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U72	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U73	Thank you. Thank you, good Prime Minister, for coming here and giving you these answers. First of all, I would like to say that I think that, in general, the government has done a pretty good job of doing it, in a pragmatic way, and I hope that we will proceed in the same way. But now to one of the narrowest questions. Some argue that under such circumstances governments must choose to save lives or the economy. It's a false dilemma. Good economic measures are also health measures and good health measures are also economic measures. Granting a person a guarantee that he or she can afford to stay at home in the event of illness; a state temporarily bans activities in the interests of public health in some areas does not mean unemployment or bankruptcy; if programmes, such as the rental housing programme or our settlement programme, which improves the quality of life of people, save them at the same time from overcrowded homes, from poor health conditions, are also a health measure. If we have enough nurses and doctors, then our people have jobs, and this is also a health care measure. That is why I have a question. If we now look at the economic measures that go hand in hand with health measures, how do we guarantee that this will also have a real effect on the daily lives of Estonian people? For example, if we are to take support measures for businesses at the same time, these companies should not concentrate people, at least not without the agreement of the trade unions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U74	Thank you. Thank you very much for this question. I think this is a very serious and very important approach, in fact. If we take different measures, such as economic measures, how we support the Estonian people through it. Through this, we support the Estonian people, that they still have bread on the table and have a job. Indeed, we have based all these entrepreneurial measures, from spring to today, on our desire to maintain employment as much as possible. As much as possible. Yes, unemployment has increased, it is true, but it has not increased to the phase that was feared in the spring. In spring, there was a fear that there would be 110000 people in Estonia in unemployment by the end of this year. 52000 is a lot too, I agree with that, but it's not 110,000. Now forward, all those investments. In fact, I have had quite a lot of time here, before all this time, there was a question about the private sector, about entrepreneurs, about the various umbrella organisations in the business sector, who say that today it is important for the public sector to contribute more to the economy, to contribute more to investment. The private sector says that investments, for example in housing, are likely to fall by a billion. It's a huge number! But back there, there are people who work on different construction sites. If it falls to a billion, they won't work there, they'll be home, and they'll most likely be unemployed. We have set in motion as many new developments as possible, where there are projects to do them quickly. Yes, we will also see in the long term that there are projects in place, but today there is a need to implement existing projects. I think that one important economic measure has also been to support local authorities. I have not been able to pay too much attention to this in this speech and answers, but I will also say yesterday, when I talk to the municipalities of Harjumaa and Tartumaa, that I actually see how these support measures have gone through a lot of local governments in order to make things right in my region. Now, what I want to say about the European Commission. In my opinion, the European Commission has stated its assessment that we have managed to significantly cushion the decline in the economy and the loss of jobs. Usually we always ask what's on the outside. This is from outside, the European Commission's assessment that Estonia has managed to significantly cushion the recession and job losses. I want to come to the first part of your question. I thought you were very right to say whether a person, for example, dares to stay at home. The same measure taken in the form of sick days. Yeah, there's been a big argument about it, different parties have seen it differently in advance, but today a person can stay [home] if he's... A person must first stay at home if he or she has symptoms. If he stays at home, the fourth day will be refunded. With the new regulation, which is really temporary, which starts on 1 January, it is the second day. Thanks to this, there is this social security and, let's say, there is much more social security. This means that there is less infection in the workplace. You're getting out very right, and I don't think it's any detail of any kind of dispersal program. It is clear that a lot of people who are able to, say, a home office or teleworking, maybe at this point they really want to travel from a densely populated area, if that is possible, to their own country. There are very specific questions: is there water, is there electricity, is there a well, is there an internet? The same dislocation programme has actually increased for next year due to the decision of the Riigikogu, with a slight increase of 1750000. I think it also gives people more opportunities to work remotely in their different places of residence or even in their own country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U75	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! The heart hurts for Ida-Viru County. From Katri Raig's questions, I got the main answers. Thanks for that. But what is still, [is] that for years, small businesses have been built up in Ida-Virumaa and entrepreneurship at all, and we have reached quite a good level. And now, let's say, the transition to the green turn is also what has caused us problems. It's going to be 2.1 million and one-off, but we're going to have to keep looking. I have a question about how in the future we will now, in order not to support it once and for all, but we also need to go to a more distant future and to keep alive all the companies that we have, because the money for a fair transition is still coming from a long and far away, and there is also confusion. So let's ask for a little perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U77	Thank you, Mr. Breivel. Indeed, what I said was that the same 5 million, of which 2.1 goes into Ida-Virumaa business, are only related to the decisions of 10 December 2020 decided by the Government of the Republic. This is only support for the closure decisions of 10 December. What you asked me is a gold-worthy question, that is a very correct question. Ida-Viru County. I would first like to tell the entire Riigikogu and all those who listen to this broadcast that Ida-Virumaa has supported, helped and provided input to the Estonian economy in all counties. He's been doing this for decades. Whether they are engineers, miners and other workers from Ida-Viru County who have worked in the oil shale sector and who have given energy to Estonia, electricity. I think it is extremely important that we keep this in mind right now and always. So thank you to these people! That's point one. Point two, we must consider that this has meant a deterioration of the living environment in Ida-Virumaa, that is clear, and in that sense investing more, more and more in Ida-Virumaa than we have done is, I think, the duty of all of us. Because what Ida-Viru County has given and what has been taken from it in terms of living environment has not been sufficiently recovered today. I am not here before the Riigikogu, either, who says: and now this oil shale is going to be stuck tomorrow. It won't be tomorrow. It's clear that I won't be stuck tomorrow. This mineral resource, this natural resource, has been important and important for Estonia. Yes, it is clear on a daily basis that its share is decreasing, we are seeing a strong decrease in the proportion of emissions due to the price of CO2, environmental pollution, emissions. But we also need to be smarter and think innovatively about what to do in the future from oil shale, where there is a smaller footprint. Clearly, the environmental footprint remains intact. What have we done at government level? We have tried to take such special measures, special decisions on very specific companies that have promised that they will bring 100 or 200 or 400 jobs there. Will it finally work? I don't know because they compete on the European or world market. Other regions also offer it, and other countries also offer it. But I think the principle that Estonia has also begun to make a difference in terms of offers in order to attract these companies here is the right solution. What you're asking is whether there's any confusion with the Fair Transfer Fund. Of course it's a mess, so far it's a mess. All in all, we do not have it at the moment, it has to be agreed. It must be agreed in all Member States that there will be an MFF and a re-launch plan. The last Council gave a very positive impetus to this coming. It is now necessary to agree on operational programmes and measures. Of course, I totally agree that 340 million is not enough, and this is where the country has to be added. This is where the state must contribute, i.e. invest through the Estonian taxpayer and its own budget. And we also have to take into account that the jobs in the sector in Ida-Virumaa, which today is decreasing, the energy sector, the mining sector, the oil shale sector, are the average plus in terms of wage levels, not the Estonian average minus. So I think that all kinds of smart investments, smart investments, new solutions, of course, next to this are always re- and further education, we need to keep it focused all the time, and I think we need to keep it more focused than ever.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U78	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U79	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good George! You're saying today there's a plan to compensate for the damage caused by the restrictions that entered into force on 10 December. The catering sector has been subject to restrictions, was under strict restrictions in the spring and is re-launching from the autumn. People's life's work will fall over in days. Companies close [doors], people become unemployed, a wave of bankruptcies, etc. There is a great deal of victory in your story, a great deal of pathos, but there are few answers to these specific questions. We take Germany, we take the other neighbours of the European Union, where there have been subsidies for this sector for the entire period, and there is already a but clear plan for vaccination. Today we have not received answers to the questions of vaccination, even though we are all equal in Europe. Yesterday, you and your group considered it more important to discuss the subject of the marriage referendum here. People find it embarrassing. What kind of values are you still acting on? Is solving the corona crisis a priority, and why is there so little specificity?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U80	Thank you. I think there is no doubt that it has been a priority for me to resolve the crisis in the corona virus and to act actively every day. From spring to spring, and from here to now. It's been in focus all along. The focus was on it all the time before and after the emergency. We have always prepared as much as we have knowledge as we have the wisdom to be better prepared. The way this is appreciated is for every listener to decide for you and for other people to decide whether or not Estonia has done well in this crisis. I also answer to you that I bear this responsibility. I bear that responsibility, and it's not like that, I don't know, someone said it was some kind of victory call. This isn't a winning speech. This is the reality of the situation and the real actions that we will continue to do in order to stand against this virus as much as possible. Do you have a vaccination program? Yes! There is a very specific plan. Do other countries have anything more specific? No, it's not! We 27 countries all act the same. We're waiting for this vaccine, we're working to get this vaccine, to be reliable, accessible. You are saying that many have gone bankrupt. I agree with you, Mr Alender, it is a very big problem that people have lost their jobs. But it's been less than predicted. Have we supported entrepreneurship? Measures of the Rural Development Foundation This is what we have been able to do in this country. Is that enough? Unfortunately, [companies] are really going to jail. The state can't save all the companies, that's true. The tourism sector is in a very difficult situation, we have added additional support to it, we have put more crisis aid on the agricultural sector, 8 million for tourism, 12 million for agriculture. We have tried to provide as much support as we can. Yes, it is, I think, reduced unemployment. But, of course, it has not slowed down growth. We have also made countercyclical investments. This is foreseen in the budget for next year, and we have made an effort on behalf of Estonia to have a re-launch plan. These are the opportunities that we have made on a daily basis. However, certain restrictions are also needed to control the virus as much as it can be controlled. As I said in my speech, there was hope for summer in spring, there is hope for a vaccine today. There's hope for a vaccine today! When we look at Estonia, we feel that everything is clear everywhere, everything is concrete and thorough. I am in contact with my fellow Members, the leaders of other EU Member States, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the other. And these are legitimate questions. The same constructive criticism. There is just as much uncertainty in the situation and everyone is trying to make the best decisions in this very difficult crisis, in several different crises, in the crisis of the century, in the honourable Riigikogu. Trying to make the best decisions! And there, very much has been mentioned in Germany today, these are the same issues and the same criticisms are being made, which are also being made in our society. People say masks are crazy things, you have to protest them. We can see that this is happening across Europe. The government doesn't have a clear plan, and so on. This is not a reproach, it is not an absolute reproach. I'm saying it's all over the table, but we're all working together. And I want to say that the Riigikogu has worked very hard. I very much, very seriously, appreciate the effort you, 101 Members, to do everything possible to get out of this crisis as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U81	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U82	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! Yesterday, there was a debate in the Chamber of Riigikogu on the subject of the marriage referendum provided for in both the Constitution and the Family Act. 58% of the population, however, have said that they do not see the need for it. As your prime minister, together with the coalition, you found this to be the most important issue in the country. In today's health crisis, the Estonian people expect the Prime Minister, the Government and the Riigikogu to deal with important problems. What are the three serious problems you're still dealing with before New Year's? With all due respect, is this really a marriage referendum? Please confirm that this is not the case. What are the first three serious problems to be solved in today's health crisis, in the opinion of today's Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U83	Thank you. I honestly don't think you'd find my quote anywhere that the marriage referendum is the most important. I don't know where you take it. I can say for sure I haven't said that and I won't. We have a lot of questions about state life; the Riigikogu also has long agendas, different points. Your question, which is most important in this health crisis, which relates to COVID-19, I will answer: to get the infection down, to get it down through various measures, behavioural models or by maintaining guidelines and distance. I think you are right to say that we are in a very difficult, very difficult and difficult moment, and it is important that we deal adequately with mental health challenges, mental health problems. This, unfortunately, is what will be revealed only after a certain period of time. I think it is actually a very, very big, very big challenge for both younger and older people. If you ask me what I'm gonna do before the New Year's: as Prime Minister, every day I'm gonna deal with the withdrawal of the COVID-19 every day, I promise you, Mr Signe Kivi, every day. I'll give anything to make those decisions as many as we can to resist the virus. It's an evil virus. There's a lot of ignorance about this virus, it's a highly contagious virus, it's a virus that's highly contagious and it's spreading, it's very different in people, and there's a very strong deterioration very fast, and some people don't get out of it. Alongside this, I also do every day to have a certain economic package, certain economic measures to keep our business up, to keep our employment up. These are all very big, very important challenges. But we can only do this by working together.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U84	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U85	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Thank you for the answers you have given here today for many hours. The farmers have such a nice saying that I'd like to be as smart in the spring as my wife in the fall. The government must be commended for what was done in the spring and for how quickly it reacted. You knew there was gonna be a new wave coming in the fall, that's what all the countries of the world knew. In my opinion, however, activities and discussions in Estonia started too late. You have said that the opposition only criticises and blames. I commended the action of the spring, but I really do not understand why negotiations with trade unions and employers started only at the end of August. In fact, until now, sick days have not been reimbursed. Yeah, it's gonna be January 1st. We knew there were job spots from which the disease began to spread, quite large, because people did not stay home and they did not want to lose their income. Is there anything you're saying today that you could have done differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U86	Thank you. I want to start with the fact that in this really very dark, difficult, exhausting moment we are in, we also have light and positivity. I have said several times today and I will say now too: on the one hand, we have the hope today that the vaccine will arrive soon. It's a very big hope. It's a very big help. On the other hand, I have said several times that the people of Estonia have been extremely good, very good. And I want to tell you, Helmen Hunter, we can do it by looking at you here! We can do it this time too, because there is no other way. There's no way. I also said in my speech that, thanks to these vaccines, it is very likely that in the autumn of 2021, there will be a better and more reliable response. Am I lost, you ask, about certain activities related to this coronavirism, or should something have been done differently, faster, better? The answer is yes. I think I have told you many times when we have discussed these same compensations for sick days, and I have told you, and I could have done more quickly today, and I should have done more quickly. But it was real at that point to agree on that, and the important thing is that this agreement came up. I don't want to go into politics here and start answering that, but you see, the system lasted like this for over ten years. It will continue today, too, and we both know with you that this is a temporary measure. The government started its activities, I'd say, the second or third week to get out of the first wave. We started with action to be better prepared for the second wave that is now in hand. Remember, Honourable Helmen Hunter, how was the discussion in society at the time where to get masks? It's not today. We've been able to get those supplies. Yeah, the masks have been super expensive. The price on the market is very expensive compared to how much these masks paid in January or February 2020. We've been able to take steps on vaccination, medication, hospital preparedness. We have managed to take very many steps, [spent] millions of euros to keep our economies and entrepreneurship, to keep people in employment. I think that these are all extremely important and important steps that have been taken to be better prepared for the second [wave], or some are already saying that someone has a third wave in hand. So we all have to learn every day or every second of this crisis, I think, to be smarter than we were yesterday. To be smarter than we were yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U87	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! If the state imposes restrictions, then of course the state must also support those affected by these restrictions. You have spoken today about how the government plans to support private and recreational education. My question is how you support general education schools, teachers with significantly higher levels of stress and workload due to distance learning. For example, the OECD has carried out an overview of good practices from countries that specifically support teachers so that they can complete distance learning. We do not even have a guarantee today that teachers will be frontline workers who will receive priority vaccinations. There has already been a lot of talk here today about confusing messages about education. My question is, how does the government support general education schools so that they can do better in distance learning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U89	Thank you. I think that we have given as much concrete message as possible in the education sector throughout the last ten months. When we were in the first wave, in a deep crisis, even then we asked when education came out of distance learning, and we asked for it. These seven school days, when there is distance learning, are of course complicated. It's complicated, of course, but I'm saying it's not the end of the world. This is definitely what the Estonian education system can do. The best teachers in the world who are in Estonia can certainly do this. And we have the best teachers in the world. We have the best teachers in the world! Considering that these seven days of study take place before Christmas, surely our teachers and parents and children will be able to get them back in their curriculum for seven days. The problem is how we move forward at the beginning of next year. Today's decision is that everything will continue as usual from 1 January. But surely we need to look at the figures and the current situation again on 28 and 29 December, and the government's decision also has such a principle: unless the government decides otherwise. We are seeing a great deal of the complete closure of European countries today, including in education. Complete closure, including in education. How do we support Estonian teachers? I think we have supported Estonian teachers, at least I have been able to speak very strongly over the last four years because teachers have been a clear priority in wage growth, wage growth. This is also said by various international organisations, that the wages of Estonian teachers have increased significantly: average wages, minimum salaries of teachers, and with this the salaries of higher education and cultural workers. This has been a very concrete measure that we have done. Better working environment, investment in school buildings. I cannot agree in any way that we have somehow abandoned the faculty. But the truth is what you say: I think what the teachers did in the spring for a very long distance was a feat, a great feat! It was very difficult to prepare lessons, to make every effort to keep as few students as possible out of the learning process. And we know that a lot of students were excluded from the study process. And at the same time, being not only a teacher, but this person, in a good way, the mentor who will do everything to ensure that the spiritual health of this student does not deteriorate, and he will also be well. Thank you. I'm sorry! About the vaccination you said. It has really been decided that the first line will then be just so sorry, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, health care professionals and medicine. And then there are the other people working at the front line, who are definitely the rescue[officials], the police, who are definitely the education[workers].
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U90	Now, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I am asking you the same question that I asked at ELAK and I did not receive an answer to that question. The vaccine is about to come, but the side effects of the vaccine are still unknown to the public. Like all medicines, this vaccine will certainly cause side effects. I will give you an example of known ibuprofen, the leaflet of which contains a warning that you should not use this medicine, if you have unexplained haematopoietic disorders, if you have inflammation of the nerves of the eye, if you have cirrhosis of the liver, etc. Ibuprofen may also be associated with an increased risk of heart attack or stroke. Side effects include that ibuprofen may cause kidney damage and liver damage, predisposition to swelling in the extremities, and that inflammation of the meninges and/or visual disturbances may occur. I ask: what are the side effects of this vaccine, and what are its effects on fertility, for example, and what can be the side effects on unborn children? I think the government needs to know what it's giving its people with a vaccine. That should be priority one right now. The Estonian people must not be a guinea pig for pharmaceutical manufacturers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U92	Thank you. I totally agree with the last part you said. That's why I've been saying all along that we're working for this, 27 countries, so that the vaccine is reliable, safe. What you're asking for is what are the side effects. If the vaccine is authorised, all the information you have currently read about this other medicine is available. That's what it is today. If we do any other vaccinations, such as vaccines against ticks or vaccines against influenza, we will be told what these side effects may be. It is important to tell you about the side effects of this vaccine as well. I am absolutely convinced that the relevant information will be provided when these vaccines are actually authorised.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U93	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U94	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! Unfortunately, you're too late to pay for your sick days. By making a clear recommendation to wear masks indoors, you're late. Schools and schoolkeepers have clear instructions on how to deal with the crisis, you are late and the confusion continues. At the beginning of December, the leader of PERH said that we were also hopelessly late in training medical staff. While other countries were working to provide special training for those medical personnel who are able to assist the Coronary Association, we did nothing. In this situation, my question is to you: what scenario are you working on now? What's the situation? What's the number of corona patients in hospitals in a week or two? And how is it ensured that we have enough medical staff to help these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U95	Thank you. Whether Jüri Ratas is late or not, I think we can decide that once we've gotten rid of this virus. I think what you're saying right now is just political rhetoric, and I actually understand why you're saying it. I certainly can't say that we've done everything brilliantly and well that we haven't had any problems. Of course it has been! I answered the preceding question here that this crisis is a multifaceted crisis. I do not know if there has been such a difficult crisis on a pan-European scale. Some leaders in European countries say that this is the biggest and most difficult crisis in this century, or sorry, in the last 100 years. Given our recent past, we have had crises and very, very difficult moments, of course. But I'm sure it's one of the biggest. This is certainly a very multifaceted crisis where we cannot cure one crisis. We may have to treat two, three, even four crises. Health, economics. That we do not really know what forecasts we are working with growth. There's so much ignorance. Haven't we done anything to train nurses, to train medical personnel, to teach? I don't agree with that at all! Of course we're done! The training of infectiousists, for example in nursing homes, has been a continuous work since spring. The constant work we've done! So there's no way I can agree to that. The fact that opening new COVID departments will cause a doctor-sister deficit in scheduled treatment, yes, that is true. But train them in three months? We know how long they study to be a doctor: ten years. It cannot be done so that we start in June and these sisters are there in August. It's not like that! Or doctors. In that sense, I agree with you. Yeah, if you're making more COVID departments, that means taking it from somewhere, and that's premeditating treatment. That's a problem. What forecasts are we working on today? We are working on this forecast that we have today and as far as we can look to the future from here. At the moment, it is known, as I also said, that we have 313 people in hospital care today, under controlled breathing 19. I certainly wish them all a strong health and rapid recovery! It is clear that the restrictions that we made on 10 December, most of which came into force only yesterday, 14 December, some of which also on 12 December, are not momentary. This effect, with a high probability that infection will fall if it results in a drop in infection, will occur at the end of the year. From there, growth will continue, after all, people in need of hospital care will continue to grow. It's gonna take a few weeks to get it down. So, unfortunately, these decisions are not so that today we will make a decision at 12.36 and the result will be at 13:00. That is not the case, unfortunately. But it is clear that, in the light of today's forecasts, the need for hospital treatment facilities is increasing. And for that we must be ready, for that we are ready. These scenarios exist. True, every next step, every next scenario, perhaps even in some hospitals, means a complete stoppage of scheduled treatment, which is, of course, a very big problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U96	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U97	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! In the spring we discussed the introduction of an emergency situation and the restrictions on rights that this entails. Then I also told you that the Riigikogu probably cannot teach the government how to manage the crisis, but can ask legal questions. My question is about the legal framework for all our activities. Then you said, after asking, that the government would come before the Riigikogu by analysing lessons by autumn. We haven't heard that so far. We discussed everything relating to the emergency situation, and there was talk about an emergency situation, that the government felt something like an emergency situation and then decided whether or not to impose an emergency situation. All these special arrangements derive from the Constitution, and that is why they provide that constitutional freedoms can be restricted through special arrangements. Then the government came up with amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Control of Diseases. The Riigikogu met quickly, we dealt with it so that it would be easier to manage things. In the course of this, the government also promised that a broad, well-analysed bill would come in the autumn, reflecting all these problems and providing for new opportunities, modernised opportunities for all these violations of constitutional rights to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U98	Question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U99	It's gonna be a new year soon, the crisis is coming again. This bill hasn't come here. Three questions. What are some reasons why the state of emergency has not been declared this time? The crisis is more serious than in spring. How are you doing with the analysis you promised on March 12th? Third, when can we see the bill that was promised for autumn?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U100	Thank you. I will then first say that I am grateful for what the Riigikogu did in spring! These changes, which have been made in legislative terms, which you yourself said, have been necessary, they have given us opportunities to make a more operational legal decision, and especially in this crisis it has been necessary. Thank you to the Riigikogu for this! Can we now analyze and make some further changes? If we see it in the government [so], we will certainly come before you with these proposals. The Riigikogu itself has also changed the organisation of work in this crisis, so that sessions can also be held, say, from a distance. But, for example, this is not of course me to tell you, but I think we should also think completely about perhaps having hybrid sessions at some point. I mean, who's at a distance and who's on the ground? It might come sooner than later. But yes, if you ask at government level, we have really discussed some amendments to the law in order to come to the Riigikogu for more support for initiatives or ideas, and after these analyses they have fallen away. But that doesn't mean that at some point we can't come up with this complex analysis. I think that what you have raised could be completely analysed at the beginning of the year, I do not know whether in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Review what changes are needed and whether the Riigikogu sees that they are reasonable or not, at least at the level of the Commission. So I think we could do that backwards at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U101	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U102	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, Merry Christmas to you too! First of all, I would like to point out that it is a good thing that you highlighted this thing called a dispersal program, a program where the right small money can do the right thing to help the situation today. But here's a question for you. You spoke in your presentation about the monolithic nature of society. Times are tough. We don't know how long we're gonna have to fight the difficulties, but we're gonna make it. From the point of view of the monolithic nature of this society, [issues questions], the theme of which is called "marriage reform" is recreated. Tell me, what is your position? Will dealing with this marriage reform today, in a difficult situation, increase or reduce the monolithic and stability of society?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U103	Thank you, good Ivar! First of all, I wish you a nice Christmas tree and Christmas Eve! The Christmas peace has been declared and it is also important. But what I want to say is that this monolithicism and unity and support for each other in the context of this crisis are, of course, extremely important and important. And I think that all actions must be directed towards it. At the same time, there are many other topics in the Riigikogu. The same question of the marriage referendum that passed the first reading yesterday. I would like to say that not all other policies can be put to a halt; they must also be moved forward, as the Riigikogu decides. The Riigikogu has decided to conclude the first reading. As we know, this draft decision has a deadline for amendments and then comes to second reading. I think the focus, as asked here, if I am not mistaken, member of the Riigikogu Signe Kivi I also said that for me certainly the marriage referendum is not the focus number one or two or three. Today, the focus is on the corona virus, dealing with it, to do everything possible to make sure that COVID-19 is coming back. Make every effort to resist this rise so that this disease does not grow in society in order to keep the economy, help the economy and jobs. I think it has to be focus number one right now, if we're talking about the short term.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U104	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U105	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! My question is in two parts. First, the [question] concerning the vaccination plan. You've set up a government that has the first chance of vaccinating itself. These groups have been made public, they are listed in the vaccination plan and there are three. There are no teachers or staff in educational establishments among them, mostly among those who are vaccinated. However, the closed-open mode of schools is partly linked to the spread of the virus among teachers. Why have teachers, at least in areas with high distribution, been excluded from the vaccination list as a priority? The second part of the question concerns support for enterprises with limited activity due to the virus. You said there was hope for wage support in Ida-Virumaa, which is definitely necessary. But there are also a large number of entrepreneurs in Ida-Virumaa, especially small businesses, struggling with high fixed costs. So I will certainly put my heart to the possibility of flexible support being paid there. My questions are as follows. Is the crisis headquarters in Ida-Virumaa planned to be extended to include a representative of business? Does the wage subsidy extend to firms hit in other regions? And did you also consider applying this not all one-piece rash solution in Ida-Virumaa because the disease situation within Ida-Virumaa is very different?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U106	Thank you. There are so many questions. First of all, the vaccines will be in deficit at first, that's clear. As much as there is a desire to vaccinate in Estonia, there is no country. You have to make some sort of sequence. As we have said, the first really are people who are health care workers, people who work in health care facilities. This is the [place] where we can see that the mortality rate is very high if the disease comes in. And as I said earlier, the front line is, of course, among the first positions. But we must also consider that all people over 70 years of age and people with a certain diagnosis must also have access to the vaccine. So we don't have a car, there's 1.3 million vaccines here, and everyone who wants to get it right away. That's the reason, some choice has to be made. Let's go. The Ida-Viru County measure, I would like to emphasise once again, this 2.1 million is linked to the decisions of 10 December. These are the decisions that we closed a lot of entrepreneurship in Ida-Virumaa over 200 companies. I have never said that this allowance relates only to wage subsidies. No, it's not. On the contrary, I also said in this report in advance that it is quite free, how the company uses it either for the leasing payment, for the rental payment, for any investment, for utility costs, for labour costs. It can be chosen by the company itself, and I think it should be as much of a stretch or freedom as possible. The main thing is that this company would say when these weeks are over that it has faith and a desire and a desire to move forward with business. That's the main thing. Now, whether or not to involve a variety of economic specialists. Of course, I see no problem in involving economic specialists in various meetings of staff or crisis, if that is necessary. The Rescue Board is curating it today, there are municipalities, there's the Health Board. You can always do that. Personally, I've been involved. I have personally formed such a panel of experts from entrepreneurs, we worked in the spring and summer. Now we reunited and agreed that we would continue this work. So, in any case, I also have entrepreneurs working with me and the leaders of various business organisations are involved, be they leaders of larger or smaller umbrella organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U107	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! We've talked a lot about the vaccine and the vaccination here today. My question comes at the request of a concerned South-Estonian citizen. He said a little ironically, why would we have a vaccine if we didn't have any syringes? Yesterday on television, he had heard from a high - ranking health officer that we didn't have enough syringes. What information do you have? Or what would you say to him? Can we get a vaccine?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U109	First of all, I would like to thank this... I wouldn't thank you. I would like to thank the people of South Estonia who have given you this question. Tell me not to worry! We need to support each other today, and certainly support this questioner, at least by me. Any syringes? I am absolutely convinced that if there are vaccines, there are all the accessories: refrigerators, syringes, etc. We have foreseen this need, the corresponding money has been allocated and there is no need to worry about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U110	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question is somewhat in the opposite direction compared to the vast majority of questions in this Chamber. I am certainly not among the unbridled advocates of all kinds of restrictions, rather I am concerned about the underestimation of the economic or psychological impact of these restrictions. I think one of the most painful examples, in fact, is the ban on direct flights several months ago. And only now, under pressure from the European Commission, will this ban be lifted. While you fly all you want when you're connecting. As a result, I asked. The tourism sector is known to have suffered the most from this crisis, bearing in mind its economic impact. I'm going to read out what's completely incomprehensible to me, and it certainly doesn't apply to you, and I'd like to ask if the driver has fallen asleep. I read this sentence: "The obligation of isolation does not extend to people who arrive in Estonia from a country with an infection rate of less than 25 per 100000 inhabitants. " To me, it seems completely incomprehensible and ridiculous. I'm sorry! When our infection rate was 25, it was understandable. Today, when we have 462, I do not know that France, where it is twice as small, Spain, where it is twice as small, or Norway, where it is four times smaller, that they are going under 25. Isn't it time to raise it 25 somewhat higher? Otherwise, allowing direct flights from the start of the new year will land completely empty, it will not actually materialise. I think it's a completely incomprehensible number.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U112	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U113	Why is this number so behind?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U114	Yeah, thank you. I say in this way that I continue to think today that not only are these holidays and this school holidays spent in Estonia, but it is right to spend it in a very narrow circle with your family in Estonia, in a very, very narrow circle. Now, this particular question you asked about this indicator, is it not time to review it? Answer: Yes, and we will certainly do so in the near future. But we have to take into account that there is also a great deal of infection coming from abroad, just as there are jobs, family circles and everywhere. Our goal today in this crisis should still be to do everything we can to reduce contacts. If these trips are not so necessary today, I think these trips should be cancelled at the moment. The tourism sector, you are right to say, has been very badly hit, very badly hit. In the tourism sector there were support measures in the spring, there have also now been support measures, financial measures. Does this solve all the questions? Of course not. But some part of the tourism sector will definitely solve it. The tourism sector is very large and wide. If we rest in Estonia, if we rest in Estonia and consume Estonia, say, different tourism sectors as much as possible, safely, then we actually support tourism here. And during the summer period, as far as I know, some parts of the Estonian tourism sector have said that there was a call for "Clean in Estonia, be in Estonia!" helped them quite a bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U115	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U116	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I wish you a beautiful Christmas holiday, too! But I'd like to talk about closing schools. This mess, which was with the closure of schools, deserves the title of a century bucket of communication, and here the Government of the Republic and the City of Tallinn are certainly responsible. This whole mess is all the more bizarre that you and Mr. Mayor are known to be party associates. You said you didn't know exactly what would happen to schools in January when Christmas vacation ended. It's strange that the government doesn't have such a longer plan, but I strongly suggest you trust more schools, because schools know best how to manage their work safely. That's good advice for you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U117	Thank you. You too, Mr. Juske, and your family have a lovely Christmas time! That it would be lovely and also safe! But what do I want to say? You say, I don't know, a bucket of the century or not. I'm sorry! The Estonian education system does not collapse with its seven distance days and the closure of schools. I said here several times: the Estonian teacher, the best in the world, can do it nicely! There is no need to fear this[that cannot]. The message was very clear: contacts need to be reduced. Anyone who wishes can continue to consult, practice, Olympics, etc. What you say as a powerful message in the bucket of the century, you can say that. Once again, the school system and the education system can do it nicely. Now, you're asking what the plan is from January to January. I'm sorry, I need to see what's going on with the virus at the end of this month, and I'm sure you'll have to make a decision. I'm sure there'll be a decision. Today, the education system is going to go on in the normal way, but the government is going to look at this at the end of December. Depends on where the virus is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U118	Prime Minister, I must ask you to sit next to me for a few minutes, because there has been a statement that we should extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. So I'm gonna have to put it to a vote now. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U119	40 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, 2 against and no abstentions. We'll continue the trial. Mr. Prime Minister, there is one more question for you. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Good George! Thank you so much for coming here today and answering our questions and giving us an overview! Here's the question. Most countries that have done better with this pandemic, such as Norway, Ireland, Finland, have refrained from closing primary schools. Avoided closing down primary schools, but first, let's say, part of it has closed down entertainment facilities, taverns. Estonia has acted the other way around. Little Tough must be home in Rõuge, but Dad can walk around the tavern in Tallinn in dozens of punks. Why are you doing this? Why don't you shut down these entertainment facilities first? You could have left basic schools open so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U121	Thank you, good Squid! First of all, I'm really glad that, like me, you had a negative 10-day test. It's, I think, very important. Now, you said your precious son has to be home and you can walk around in these taverns. Certainly, I think your son can also do different activities there, exercise, he doesn't have to sit at home at all, and he certainly has [interest] in rural areas. I don't believe that much of you knowing you're out there in the taverns every night. This is an interesting comparison when it is said that schools are closed and now the people of Estonia are all nights only in taverns. That's not true! We know it's been closed since 10:00. After the bad incident that took place in one spa, you can't rent these surfaces for private parties, or you can't. So I guess it's definitely not out of proportion, or it's a problem now. It's the contacts. I think these are like different [things], whether we say all the dining places in the tavern or say that some are restaurants, some are cafes. You have to eat, that's clear, and a lot of people still use these places to eat, not to have a big party there. And in terms of reducing the number of contacts, the closure of the seven-day schools is very, very important in this sense, because there has been a huge increase in infection among children. So, yeah, I've never put so much weight on that, I don't know, the tavern is open and the schools are closed. I think it's very arbitrary, and I don't think it can be done that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U122	There's another question. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U123	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Yesterday in this very hall, the opposition was completely panicked about why the Prime Minister didn't come and talk. Today, when you are here, there are only a few opposition ambassadors in the Chamber. And when we look at these questions, it's absolutely no matter what the government does: doing the same thing, it's bad, doing the other way around, it's bad. Everything's bad. Do you think there is, in fact, some sort of concern or some serious desire to make something better, or do we simply have a political game and spin organised by the opposition in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U124	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, it was my wish to inform you, to come before you with as fresh information as possible that the government could provide to the Riigikogu. Since I know that this day is Tuesday, when we are discussing these topics at our meeting today were very fundamental decisions, I really wanted to come here, and I also thanked the President of the Riigikogu, the Executive Board and the members of the Riigikogu for this opportunity. Now, I believe that we all understand that the corona virus is still a very, very big concern in society, which makes our heart ache at every moment. I believe that this is also the case for members of the Riigikogu. After all, today's questions have been very important: how is vaccination taking place, what is happening to the economy, what is going on with restrictions? Some have said that it is, I don't know, a communication bucket of the century or what Mr. Juske said. But I think he was actually worried the same way about how the education sector was doing. So I would also like to say to you, Mr President of the Riigikogu, answering here in the Chair of the Riigikogu, that the cooperation that has been between the Riigikogu and the government has been good, and I certainly wish to continue. Thank you for this opportunity to have this debate and discussion here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U125	A procedural question? Otherwise, there is only one question possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U126	Yeah. Since Henn Põljaas mentioned the opposition and I recognise myself in this moment, and since there was obvious false information in that mention, I must point out here that almost all members of the opposition have held a debate with the Prime Minister and asked their own question, which has been given to the opposition. That's point one. And point two: the opposition, dispersing its presence in the large hall and listening to this discussion in the meantime via other information channels, is instead trying to set an example of how to behave in today's health situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U127	It was a procedural remark, and we will stop answering questions. Thank you, Prime Minister. It's time to open negotiations. First Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U128	Thank you. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U129	Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U130	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The Corona crisis and the accompanying side effects on our medical care, children's education, entrepreneurship and the spiritual well-being of society in general are a challenge for all of us today. I regret that the Heads of Government have only understood this in a rhetorical way. We heard from government ministers in May about the second wave, how masks are a new social norm, and how the entire state apparatus works to prepare for the second wave of COVID-19. We even had ministers who embodied themselves as political virologists and considered themselves more competent in their vanity than professors and scientists. Unfortunately, the reality is different. The coronal outbreak that started in autumn is out of control today. For months, our ministers have dealt with political follies, hateful sexual minorities and the new President of the United States, dealt with political games about family law, and even started to come up with questions about abortion. Ministers are resigning, scandals are coming and going, but we have left the corona out of our attention. The Reform Party has taken a number of initiatives to take action more seriously to deal with coronavir. On 6 July, we proposed the creation of a Commission to analyse the fight against the epidemic of the virus that hit Estonia in the spring. On 14 September, we proposed the development of a plan for the organisation of the work of basic and general education institutions under the conditions of the COVID-19 virus and to ensure a safe learning environment for teachers and students. On 22 October, at the initiative of the Reform Party Group, the key national question "How to Live With Coronavir" took place. a discussion with experts. A number of lessons for a second wave emerged from there. Among other things, the experts thought that schools should be the last ones to close down and that the shut-down should not be dealt with, but should be carried out in a very purposeful manner. At the same time, the members of the government dealt with the insult of minorities, which ended with the sending of cake to each other. Yesterday, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, we handed over the draft decision of the Riigikogu to prepare a comprehensive plan for the crisis, and we added earlier proposals that the government has not yet been able to make people feel secure. The government's main mistakes in dealing with the corona crisis have now been revealed. Firstly, the government has not used the time between the first and second waves to help hospitals prepare for the second wave of the virus. Summer was not used to prepare and collect lessons. I recall that, for example, the head of Kuressaare Hospital, which was at the heart of the previous wave, said right here on the platform that the Reform Party was the only one who asked them for these lessons, the government did not do so. Similarly, medical director Urmas Sule has said that the summer was used to rest, not to prepare for the second wave, and to find the necessary medical staff. And it's taking revenge now. There's no plan, and there's no sign of it. Secondly, if the government comes up with restrictions, it should also be clear immediately that there is a compensation mechanism to compensate for the losses incurred. Today we see this particularly clearly in the case of Ida-Virumaa, that Ida-Virumaa has been left alone. Brave entrepreneurs who operate there will be informed of government decisions via the media. The 2.1 million labour market benefits promised today are too low and will come too late. It is not even clear how many people remain who would need labour market benefits and whether this will help companies survive. Thirdly, there has been no clear plan on vaccination to date, or if so, the full text of this plan has been kept secret from people and even from the people of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. On Sunday, the "Actual Camera" described very clearly the vaccination programme of Latvia when it begins, starts, how it is organised. Today, Estonia's vaccination plan was also published, which contains directions, but not details of the level of activity, and which still contains a number of questions and ambiguities. Our government has been very passive in the planning of vaccination. In comparison, when the swine flu was raging, the Reform Party government did not rely on joint European procurement, but tried to find more vaccine outside. The current government will not do so. But now I'm talking about what else we need to do. Firstly, we need a very clear plan for the next few months to break the Corona contagion curve and then to keep the virus at a level that enables us to keep the most necessary services in society open. Children must receive education, people must receive planned medical care and workers must be assured that jobs will be maintained. The lack of this plan has been mentioned by hospital managers, health professionals, local government leaders and entrepreneurs. I am convinced that such a plan can be put together if we do not only engage in political self-prevention and substitution activities. Another major challenge is to establish a very precise vaccination plan. We have to fight for every dose of vaccine we can get anywhere in the world. We also need to provide support staff and doctors who are going to vaccinate our people. We must have logistical solutions and medical supplies in place, along with special techniques, so that vaccination can be carried out without haphazards. The importance of vaccination should under no circumstances be underestimated. My recommendation and prayer to the current government is simple: pull yourself together and focus on the Korona! We're doing everything we can to help bring down the signs of infection. Then we will keep these restrictions, which will help us keep the virus at a manageable level for our medical system. Preparation for vaccination is the most important topic in the first months of the new year. Any other politically designed problems could remain behind the closed doors of the Coalition Council. The Head of Government could take this message from this Riigikogu today. I wish the government common sense and determination! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U131	Kersti Sarapuu, please, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U132	President-in-Office of the Council. Good Prime Minister and good people in the hall! On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to thank Prime Minister Jüri Ratas for a thorough and meaningful review. Estonia has gathered its reputation as a smart and flexible small country and the Prime Minister's thinking that we need to react, but not overreact, but only confirms it. The balance between the normal functioning of society and its limitations is being sought by all countries, and Estonia has done well to control the spread of the corona virus by assessing the global picture. The demands of the Estonian people on the government are high. This is perfectly understandable because the current government has shown itself to be united and able to work. The same applies to the political groups of coalition parties in the Riigikogu. I congratulate all Members who have been prepared to cooperate so that the Riigikogu can contribute in a legislative way to resolving the corona crisis. I assure you, we do not intend to lower the bar. I also understand those people who expect a very rapid response from the government. At this point, however, it must be borne in mind that the quality of decisions must not suffer from excessive haste. Both the government and the Social Committee of the Riigikogu use evidence- and science-based measures to stop the COVID-19 virus. The decisions have been taken taking into account the forecasts and proposals of experts, researchers and the Scientific Advisory Board. Involvement of researchers and scientific debate must be the foundation of government governance. The global corona virus pandemic lasts longer than initially expected and has serious and long-term consequences. Good listeners! The current difficult situation shows the bottlenecks in our health care system. I agree with Minister for Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige, who says that healthcare funding needs a systemic change. The financing of health care from the social tax for people mostly employed is no longer sustainable in the context of the flexible forms of work that are increasingly used today. Citizens' expectations of health care increase, while the number of people who contribute to health insurance decreases. As the current situation continues, people will have to pay an increasing proportion of their pockets, which is why healthcare financing needs a systemic change. This is particularly illustrated by the decline in employment and the resulting fall in tax revenue resulting from the COVID-19 crisis. Even more seriously, we saw this during the last economic crisis. The fall in the income of social tax also immediately reduces the income of health insurance. As we do not want to cut the volume of health care services, we need to increase the healthcare funding that the current government has done. I would also like to draw attention to the high impact of the corona epidemic on the economy. Tourism entrepreneurs and people involved in the tourism sector are most severely affected by the crisis, but the coin also has a different side. The process of changing global economic relations is currently underway. Economic sectors and businesses will benefit from the advantages of automation, digitalisation, moving to virtual channels, as well as those benefiting from increasingly stringent environmental requirements. Estonia also has a choice between maintaining the economic sector and looking for a new path. Every day, when the virus crisis comes to an end, we will be able to continue where we left off in the spring. Changes in the labour market are also rapidly underway, especially those with medium skills are at risk. At the same time, the shortage of top specialists is increasing. It is for Estonia to choose whether we are trying to save as many businesses as possible with the support of the taxpayer in a viral crisis, to create a favourable economic environment, and to leave companies at the mercy of market forces, or to re-establish the economic structure with the support of the state. According to the analysis of the Development Monitoring Centre, there will be no rapid recovery of the international tourism business in the coming years and the Estonian accommodation and catering sector will have to focus on domestic and near-markets. In the near future, car or boat journeys to or from neighbouring countries are likely to be more popular than air travel. Experts strongly recommend contributing to the electronics industry. In fact, the problem of the electronics industry in the pandemic led to problems in the delivery of components, as factories were closed both in Asia and in Europe. With a view to security of supply, accelerated production is being placed closer to the final markets, resulting in a part of Asia being relocated to Europe. For Estonia, the question is how can we benefit from these favourable developments. It's Christmas Eve, and I want us to meet the holidays by understanding each other and caring about each other. I put it to everyone's heart that the next recommendations made by the government and the Health Board would be more of a law for all of us. But in any case, happy holidays! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U133	Mr Ossinovski, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U134	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U135	Extra time requested. It'll be eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Coronal crisis is undoubtedly very multifaceted and inclusive of society as a whole, and it is therefore possible to talk about it for hours, so that the heart of the matter is not caught. The Corona epidemic in Estonia, as in most Eastern European countries, has been lost in the second wave. We have an uncontrolled spread, an epidemic spread since the end of October. We have an example of infection in one county of over 1,000, which is one of the highest figures in Europe. Our hospitals are interrupting scheduled treatment and are at risk of overload. And it is not a matter of taste, as the Prime Minister said, to assess whether it is good or bad. This is a completely objective reality: the situation is poor. Now, finding a common solution could undoubtedly begin to recognise this fact. The Prime Minister himself said today that, unfortunately, it is not the case that the decisions on restrictions would have an immediate effect: today we are doing and tomorrow the result is here. That's right! That's right! On 5 November, the Scientific Advisory Board showed the government an initial forecast, as it was at that time that the Health Board had lost the epidemic over its precise control, where each positive was able to identify with its close contacts. The three forecast scenarios provided for the number of hospital patients between 230 and 350 by 15 December. As of this morning, 40 days later, there are 313 people in the hospital. The projections have been amazingly accurate, which cannot be said of the government's actions. On that same November 5, the Prime Minister said that the government's aim is to avoid general restrictions, the cessation of scheduled treatment and the cessation of education. Indeed, every citizen and every entrepreneur do not need to analyse Krista Fischer and Mario Kadastik's forecast schedules. This is why they have hired a government that can involve the necessary expertise in order to manage society so that these objectives can be achieved. And that is why 40 days after today's status was predicted and those risk scenarios were given to decision-makers, these risk scenarios have come true. And it's certainly appropriate to ask how we got here. Instead of talking about it, the government has been using the three protection tactics through Jüri Ratas' mouth for two weeks now, last week through Martin Helme's mouth. Instead of recognising the substance and looking for common solutions, it was said that everything was fine. First, there is the expectation of the vaccine. This is an undoubtedly wonderful event that will finally reach the world next year, that we will probably be able to overcome the pandemic thanks to vaccination. We certainly hope for it, and we must be prepared for it. But before Christmas comes, there are 400+ people in Estonian hospitals before Christmas. This is an immediate period that we will have to deal with in the next few weeks and in the next few months, and if infections do not decrease by the next week, it is likely that there will also be no reduction in the two months. This is so acute that the expectation of the vaccine will not relieve the systemic approach in the search for today's solutions. Secondly, the defence tactics that other countries are also bad. I looked at the various countries they have been trying for, but it has happened, indeed, that bad decisions have been made in other countries as well. In most cases, bad decisions have occurred in two cases. Firstly, if their implementation is late in many countries, which has happened, unfortunately also in the second wave in Estonia, or if these restrictions are poorly implemented, either because they are inherently illogical or because they are not followed by the people for one reason or another. But there are also better examples. And there are certainly examples where the system is run. I do not want to go on this slippery road undoubtedly, that I am going to bring out different countries here. Because indeed, these experiences are beautiful individual and national systems are individual. But to apologize for that, well, look, Lithuania is even worse! This absolutely does not change the claim that the government has not acted adequately between 5 November and today. There's no way to change it! Nothing! The third safeguard is that restrictions have harmful economic effects. And that's what I asked the Prime Minister about. There was no answer. Undoubtedly, if you ask the trader if it is preferable that his business is closed or open, he prefers that his business is open. When you ask people if it's better if the gym is closed or open, they say it's better if it's open. The same way the theaters and so on. But that's not the question! It is a question of certain restrictions that society as a whole applies on one side and on the other side, the collapse of the hospital system, the interruption of scheduled treatment, long-term and very profound health and economic effects. And all of this once again can actually be measured objectively. Take Britain or Finland, for example. In both cases, the government has commissioned and obtained a specific analysis that has assessed the economic impact, both health and economic impact, of a strategy to combat one or other corona. In Finland, for example, it was found that it would be more economical to apply somewhat stricter restrictions in December than to go with less restrictive restrictions in February-March. It was economically appreciated. What exactly are these restrictions, this must be discussed by the Finnish Government itself, on the basis of the arsenal they have at their disposal. We have taken a stance without any evidence that the economic impact is lower with moderate long-term tightening restrictions. Behind this, there is actually no measured analysis. Perhaps this is the case, but the government has not really appreciated it, it has occurred in a gut feeling exactly as any individual entrepreneur says, that it is better if his business is open than if it is closed. It is probably, I think, possible to reach the view that a shorter closure may be more economically sensible than a long-term half-empty course of work when negotiating with businesses. That's what we really need is a system of leadership. The question is not whether there is a lockdown or whether there is no lockdown or "closure," as the Prime Minister said in the Estonian word. It is a matter of systematic evidence-based action to achieve the objectives set. But we do not have any goals or systematic action. At night it is decided to hit the schoolhouse with one table, to close the schoolhouse on Kihnu island and in Tartu with no exceptions. At the same time, of course, taverns and other entertainment facilities will remain in operation. And it's actually very important. The Prime Minister also admitted that you can see that communication could be better. I think communication has been completely adequate and responds exactly to the blob that has been in government decisions. Unsystemic decisions cannot be well-communicated. How can it be explained that Kalvi Tough's son must be at home, that he cannot go to school, but at the same time adult people can go to the tavern with tens of them? Doesn't the corona get infected when it sits down to 10 people? Of course, if the decision itself is in a systemic way, it is equally very difficult for society to demand compliance with it. Now the last one, since there is no more time, to say it would be much more. Holidays are a very high risk. Throughout Europe, countries are proactively adopting tough measures to avoid the risk associated with holidays. In the context of Estonia, I calculated that if, due to the holiday period, 1000 70+ of the old people in Estonia become ill, which is perfectly possible if hundreds of thousands of people go to visit their old people, about 250 of them will probably arrive at the hospital for the second week of January and we do not have a place where they can be accommodated. So, dear people, the situation is much more critical than what the government says. Let's take this thing seriously to prevent worse! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U137	Heiki Hepner, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that none of us doubt that today's health crisis with the economic crisis is a serious problem, not only in Estonia, but all over the world. We've had a debate here and answered a lot of different questions, exchanging information. I'm sure it's important. But it's naive to hope that we have some gold key that will solve all the problems by screwing one. There's been a series of thoughts thrown into the air that I don't want to agree with in any way. Even this last example that in Eastern Europe, it is as if all things were badly emphasised in this Eastern Europe. I don't agree that we are bringing such clear lines between us. In this crisis, we should refrain from drawing any lines between the opposition and the coalition. We must be united as a society and together fight this crisis, this disease. Indeed, we have two broad frames: one is to lock down the whole society; the other is to do nothing. Perhaps we could say whether we are setting health as our ultimate goal and forgetting everything else, or whether we are making the economy our ultimate goal and sacrificing everything to it. I think this approach is wrong. We need to look for the common ground, because as soon as we start to prefer one to another, we will not actually achieve either of these objectives. It is clear that every day, every week, this issue needs to be addressed. And what we agree on today may have to be changed tomorrow. It is not the case here that today's decisions would allow us to sail peacefully for a month, two or more. There must be a very flexible and very operational approach to all issues. But still. Perhaps a few keywords that are penetrating, no matter what solutions we have. Some keywords that should always be emphasized: we keep distance; we use the HOIA app, because we really have to admit that its use could be much greater; we use masks in the rooms, but also outside when we are closer together; we reduce contacts, and also in the context of the approaching holidays. All of these together help us to reduce the spread of this disease, to combat it. It is likely that the spine of the disease will be the vaccine. And here I agree with the approach that we should wait for a marketing authorisation, go with our European Union partners to reduce the risks that, of course, accompany each vaccination. So that the side effects are minimal, that the vaccine is safe and that it actually works. Procedures have been established for this purpose and... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U139	An extra three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U140	... and it is certainly worth waiting for these weeks to be absolutely certain. Of course, it is also very important for the government to think about and implement a system of vaccinations, so that there is a specific plan and that it is carried out, and that all Estonian people receive free vaccinations just as our options currently exist. The people on the front line first and then the rest of them as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that we will put an end to this crisis, but for that we do not need to oppose each other. To do this, we need to act together, we need to act wisely, we need to react in good time, we need to exchange information in good time, we need not overreact. Then also this real result of the health crisis is the lowest in terms of the economic crisis. I wish all of us the strength to do this! And let us not forget that although we need to reduce contacts, let us not forget those who are alone during the holidays, because in fact these effects may also be where we do not notice them at first. Good luck to all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U141	Mart Helme, please, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U142	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! Colleagues! I remember spring. Especially in this dark time, it is immediately heartwarming when you think that the day will be long and the sun will shine more, and the summer will always be especially hopeful. But in this context, I recall the same opposition parties who have spoken today, tearing from this panel, the terrible situation of a state called the Republic of Estonia, accusing this Prime Minister and government of the fact that the government intends to introduce a dictatorship in Estonia, intends to suppress everything in Estonia, intends to introduce a silent era, and the terrible things you have all forewarned us. Remember, take out your sermons, your recordings, and see what kind of nonsense you were talking about, including me, that I was supposed to build private armies and whatnot. Now we can hear the Republic of Estonia, in its fight against the Corona epidemic, almost sinking into the earth with a pandemic. I think you're wrong, just as you were wrong in the spring. At the level of its government and head of government, the Republic of Estonia has taken increasingly important, albeit not light and, as a general rule, very difficult decisions. I would also rely on international authority. There is one, at least a highly esteemed American analyst by me, the name is George Friedman, who wrote in the spring when the first pandemic wave hit the world, a very analytic, balanced article in which he warned: in the fight against a pandemic we must find a golden middle ground, because it is very easy to kill the economy, but by killing the economy we will not kill the virus. In order for the economies to survive and countries to have the resources to fight the pandemic further, it is necessary to find a golden middle ground. As a former member of the government, I dare say that in spring and even now, in autumn, the government has tried to find this golden middle ground, not to kill the economy, to keep the economy running, to keep jobs in place, to keep companies alive, to find the means for companies to pay certain benefits, to find the means for people to compensate for sick days, not to pay wages. The government has made these decisions. It was particularly ridiculous, of course, to hear here from the representative of the Reform Party about how the government has been waiting for the procurement of European vaccines instead of obtaining them. I'm sorry, have you broken down how much this is all going to cost? Have you come together how much money the Republic of Estonia should have found by buying alone? You probably have no idea, or even if you do, you're obviously overlooking this number. This number is so large, it makes no sense for us to fight it alone. I know the slogan of the Reform Party is "Never again alone!'. In this case, we're gonna show that we're never gonna be alone again. We have been involved, and these have been collective, consensual, informed decisions by the government, in the joint procurement of all vaccines currently known. The news came today that a new strain of the virus has already been found. This means that if we had focused our resources on obtaining one vaccine and the vaccination would have revealed... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U143	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U144	... that the virus has mutated and this particular vaccine no longer provides protection for this particular mutation, then we would have fired a huge resource into nothing, uselessly wasted taxpayers' money, which we should actually spend here in Estonia. Yes, one might ask whether all the subsidies and aid packages that we have for the economy and people, that perhaps in spring we should have thought more about channelling some part of this money into the better preparedness of our medical system. Maybe. I don't want to say here on the remote that everything has been done most correctly and most rationally. I dare say that neither Jüri Ratas nor Mart Helme nor any of the third members of the government coalition have invented this pandemic. This is not just a problem in Estonia. Yesterday, news came: The Netherlands, which so far had very good figures, locked itself overnight because the figures suddenly threw them up, despite all the measures. What did the Dutch Government do wrong? Maybe Ossinovski can tell, I can't tell. Ossinovsky, as we know, is the smartest of all. He has proven this on several occasions in government, where somehow he didn't do as well as he did from this speaker. Of course, he's getting a counterword now. What I'm trying to say is that the second wave struck everyone. While in the spring there was pan-European optimism that we could overcome the pandemic with collective efforts, in the autumn when the second wave rolled on and worse than the first wave, it turned out that in fact everyone had to learn on the move and find these ways, ways, means to survive. That's why, less stupid blaming and more thinking together. Because the virus does not only hit coalition members or coalition supporters, voters, it also hits opposition members and opposition supporters in the same way. It makes no difference whether someone belongs to the Social Democratic Party or to the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, there is no difference. The virus hits everyone the same way. And to play this pingpong in this hall and beyond this hall, that someone has been guilty, has done wrong, has failed, yes, there is no perfect world and there will be no perfect world. But I can assure you that the government will not sit back, but will try to find optimal solutions in this situation within the limits of these resources and by extending the resources that the Republic of Estonia has. This is a reality, and from the point of view of this reality, we should make a concerted effort. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U145	Yes, Jevgeni Ossinovski's name mentioned, the possibility of a reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, no one is infallible, and the various countries have made mistakes in the second wave of the Corona epidemic, mostly less than in the first wave, but they have done so. I believe that both the opposition and Estonian society are willing to forgive mistakes and learn from them together in order to make more effective decisions and to take more effective steps. But for that to happen, you have to admit them. Last week, Mr Helme, as a substitute Prime Minister, said that the government has done an excellent job and the government should be commended for how well they have done their job. This concern, at least for me, certainly for the Social Democrats as a whole, but I believe that all Members of Parliament also have it because of this situation, it is based on this understanding, which the decisions referred to have been mandated by the Estonian people to adopt today's government and government coalition. But the effects of these decisions are felt by all of us. And so far we have felt the effect that proper, systematic governance of society is not done in time, which has led us to a situation where it is out of control. Of course, apart from the fact that we are talking about responsibility over the last 40 days and more, it is certainly important to get back on track. And when we are talking about this middle road, we really should agree on what this goal is that we are trying to achieve together and then really together to make these decisions. And I hope that, after today's debate, the government will also draw its own conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U147	That concludes the negotiations, the political groups have spoken and the lines have been heard. That is how we have dealt with the Prime Minister's political statement. If the Prime Minister does not want any additional speech, this item will be exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U148	Let's move on to the agenda. We still have a number of questions on the agenda, but we will take the fifth item. To this end, the Estonian Reform Party Group has initiated a draft law amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act with 122 numbers, and we will continue to read it again. Marko Šorin, Member of the Committee on Culture, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U149	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Riigikogu! I will continue to read the second reading of the suspended bill in May. The Estonian Public Broadcasting Act amends § 5 (1) (1) (1) by replacing the word "hearers" with the words "hearing for persons with disabilities." The second reading of the bill was in the big hall on 2 May. Then it was interrupted. However, the deadline for amendments was set at 20 May. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees of the Riigikogu submitted no amendments to the draft by the deadline for amendments. The Committee on Culture discussed this draft at its meeting on 7 December following the suspension of the second reading. And at the meeting on 7 December, the Committee on Culture made the relevant decisions: that the second reading should continue today, on 15 December, and that, if the second reading was completed, the third reading would take place at the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 17 December, the day after tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U150	Jüri Jaanson, question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U151	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The reading of the draft Act amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act was interrupted. The reasons for this interruption in the spring, 6 May, are still not exactly known. One reason, however, was the plan to amend the Media Services Act, which would have extended the needs of people with hearing impairments or disabilities at all to other private channels, and then the European directive would have been transposed. My question is, what happened to the plan? Where is the plan to amend the Media Services Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U152	Thank you, George, for this question. I do remember, in the same way, that one argument in May was that the amendment to the Media Services Act had to be adopted in the Chamber of the Riigikogu in autumn, and that was also one of the reasons why the interruption seemed practical at the time. At this meeting, the Committee on Culture did not discuss the current state of play of the Media Services Act, but somewhere this law is stuck. It was then that we knew that in the autumn we could discuss it in the big hall, but since officials are those who also have to deal with other issues related to the coronavir, this timeline has proved too tense for them. However, this was not directly discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U153	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U154	Good manager and waitress! Although the Reform Party Bill, I would say good. The question is, what is the difference between hearing impaired and hearing impaired?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U155	Thank you for your question. I don't remember if it was in the debate in the spring, but the explanatory memorandum I have here doesn't make that difference. At the time, I thought the question was that there were people who couldn't hear, but they could read subtitles, but there are also people who can't read subtitles. They need sign language. That's a whole other subject. However, this was not directly discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U156	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You referred to the fact that officials have been very busy in connection with the COVID and there has probably not been time to develop or prepare these laws in the Riigikogu. Doesn't it seem to you that the same problem that we have been dealing with here is important to these very same people precisely in relation to the information they need to get, and it is connected to the COVID? Can't you see a little cacophony like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U158	Thank you for your question. This question probably arises in the same way for every member of the Riigikogu. I did not say that officials did not have time to deal with it, but that they had to shift the priorities a little. But we also know that the same area, or let's say, the translation for hearing impaired, certainly got in the way of declaring the emergency situation in the spring. Our colleague Jüri Jaanson will certainly be better able to comment on this, as he probably communicates with these people the most of us. A legitimate question, but, as I say, the measures regulations that these same officials had to develop in several ministries, probably this priority issue, are here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U159	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U160	Once again, good law, and I think we're going to adopt it. But, of course, you can always complain that yes, everything is bad and the earth is frozen and the snort is scab. But how much does it really cost, whether it be people with hearing impaired or hearing impaired?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U161	Thanks for asking. Now I have to remember the spring debate, it is still six months and more. At the time, the sums involved were around 300,000. But there are a number of technical nuances that this law does not directly require to be amended. In this sense, it is a rather non-revolutionary draft, so that their technical capabilities, which would cover as many hearing impaired as possible or all hearing impaired, can still develop there.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U162	No further questions for you. Thank you, dear waitress. It is possible to open negotiations. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to express my great pleasure at the fact that this bill has now reached this great hall after it has been cut off. I hope it goes on from here. I am very grateful for this to the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, the chairman of the committee and the other members of the committee. Now that the bill was being discussed, I realized that there was a question of who we were talking about and how many there were. We are talking about Estonian sign language deaf people, who are generally valued in society according to the formula one thousandth of society, which means we have approximately 1300 people. This figure varies in size, it is estimated that there are 1300 to 1,500 people. These are indeed sign - language people. These are people who do not speak oral or written Estonian so well that they can read or understand the written text well. Their native language is Estonian sign language. What is very important is that the information they receive is provided in sign language, including on television channels. When we talk more broadly about the problems that people with hearing impairments have, there is one important thing first. It is important to amend one group in the Estonian National Broadcasting Act, or one word in § 5, "for hearing impaired," [put in words] "for hearing impaired persons." Why? Because it would involve all people with hearing problems, both hearing impaired and deaf people in sign language, all of them. And it's very important, in a meaningful sense, because this small group of sign-speaking deaf people have a very delicate connection with society. This connection goes through sign language interpreters. This connection goes through the sense that they exist in society, that they are necessary for society, and that society also gives them the opportunity, the possibility of communication, that they do not completely separate from their own corners because they do not receive services, they do not receive information to be part of our society. In this sense, the meaning of what we are now doing here with this bill is enormously much greater than one word that goes to change this bill. Secondly, I would like to mention that Estonian Public Broadcasting has actually done a great deal for both hearing impaired and sign-speaking deaf people. It's very important to know. They've done a lot, but more, I'd say, there's more to be done. That is the point of the law: the law itself is not imperative, it does not oblige to do anything, but it draws attention and obliges the Estonian National Broadcasting Office to pay attention to the different needs of people with hearing impairments. And that is what comes next: we eagerly expect automatic subtitles to be included in the news and trouble programmes, sign language, sign language, and sign language to be automatically added. We in the Riigikogu, as well as in passing on crisis information, have taken a major step forward in this respect, that this information is also passed on in sign language. But it should become a part of everyday life, so that the daily information and the social problems that arise on a daily basis, which are autopsied on TV screens, are autopsied in Estonian National Broadcasting programmes, will be passed on to [in sign language]. Of course, it is very important when the New Year's Eve comes again, and I also want to give a message here to the President of the Republic of Estonia, the Office of the President of the Republic, that it is extremely important that the President's New Year's speech be delivered directly in sign language, but not 24 hours later. It's not human. And one more thing to talk about is the Media Services Act, the one that was supposed to...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U164	Would the speaker like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U165	... what was supposed to be the reason for this interruption, why spring, 6 May [second reading] was interrupted and now continues this media service law has not reached [this]. It would transpose a European directive on audiovisual services from Europe. But the important aspect of this is that it extends services that take into account the needs of people with hearing disabilities to private channels. Today's private channels would then also be involved. And that is also a very important aspect. I would end this, and I wish the Committee on Culture some strength. I hope that the second reading will be completed here today and the third reading will also be completed and this amendment will become a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-12-15_U166	There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. No amendments have been tabled to this draft. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 122 be completed. If there are no other proposals, the second reading of Bill 122 will be completed and today's agenda will be exhausted at exactly 14 p.m. We'll pick it up tomorrow.
