ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the Monday session of the 3rd session of the Riigikogu. First, the delivery of drafts and enquiries. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U2	Hi! Have a nice Monday! I have an inquiry from the Reform Party to the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps, where we ask about educational and linguistic reforms at the Institute of the Estonian Language and the Language Board that will be created. That's all for short.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U3	Now the representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U4	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates the draft Act on ratification of the Baltic Air Surveillance Network and Management System Arrangement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik when the bill is being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and one draft. The Bureau will decide on their future procedure in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu, no 15. Next thing you know, we're gonna get to this week's agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the third working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of approving the agenda, against 1. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U6	And now we get to Monday's agenda. The first point is the first reading of the draft Act 123 on the ratification of the 2007 Convention on the Removal of International Ship wrecks, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will remind you of our rules of procedure. First, the originator or his representative shall be present. [[In the diner.]] Keep it down, please! The presentation of the representative of the commission shall then also be for up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to the rapporteurs and during the negotiations the representatives of the political groups may speak on the board for five plus three minutes or two minutes. Today's draft waitress is Minister of the Environment Rene Chef. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Convention of 2007 on the Removal of International Ship wrecks of Nairobi, the Nairobi Convention, was adopted on 18 May 2007 and entered into force on 14 April 2015. Today 48 countries have joined the Nairobi Convention, including four countries bordering the Baltic Sea: Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Germany. Estonia is among the signatory countries of the Convention, having signed it on 28 March 2008. The Government of the Republic submitted a draft law on this ratification to the Riigikogu on 18 December 2019. The Nairobi Convention lays down the rights and foundations of States Parties to the Convention for the removal of wreckage resulting from marine casualties. Shipwrecks can pose a threat to people's lives, maritime safety, marine benefits, marine property and the marine environment. The Nairobi Convention imposes an obligation on owners of ships of more than 300 gross tonnage (GT) to have insurance. The insurance must ensure that dangerous cargo or wreck is removed. The Convention does not apply retroactively, i.e. compensation can only be claimed in the event of maritime accidents occurring after the Convention has been in force. Ship wrecks cause three major problems. First, the wreckage can pose a danger to navigation, depending on its location, endangering other ships and their crews. Secondly, there may be a risk to the marine environment of a ship. Thirdly, it is very costly to locate and raise ship wrecks. The removal of wreckage and associated other activities in the sea are very expensive, which is why it is important for the State to reduce the risk of shipping accidents and related legal disputes. In 2017, the Ministry of the Environment commissioned a survey of potentially environmentally hazardous wreckage in order to assess the expected costs of their actual environmental impact and risk management. The study concluded that the cost of pumping the wreck is difficult to estimate, depending on a wide range of factors such as the methodology used, the availability of tanks and the depth of water. However, on the basis of the experience of similar work done in the world, it can be said that the amounts could amount to millions of euros. For example, in 2006 a cargo ship called Runner 4 drowned near Vaindloo Island and the total cost of pumping fuel out of its tanks was 2.32 million euros. Become a party to the convention will increase the credibility of the Estonian state in the area of maritime safety and environmental protection. In view of the small size of the Baltic Sea, the density of traffic and the frequent bad weather conditions, the emergence of new wreckage of ships that endanger the environment cannot be excluded. The wrecks can have a significant impact on maritime safety and damage to the marine environment. For Estonia, ratification of the Convention means verification of the existence of an insurance or similar financial guarantee certificate for ships flying its flag and of the existence of a certificate on ships admitted to port. It is up to the Maritime Administration to verify the certification and its existence. The documentation in accordance with the Convention shall be checked during normal ship inspections. In order to ensure the effective implementation of the Convention, a draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea and a draft regulation by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications is currently underway to issue and verify insurance certificates. The issue of certificates to the State and the verification thereof shall not entail any additional costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U8	There are also questions for the Minister, Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U9	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! See, this Article 12 "Priority insurance or other financial security'. All these items are mandatory when the gross tonnage of the ship is 300. Somehow you don't know if 300... If larger or smaller, it is not as indicated, is 300. Oh, yes, it is: 300 and more. I know how gross tonnage is calculated, and I know that this unit isn't going to be put back here, but has it been discussed where this 300 came from? Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U10	Thank you. This GT, or gross tonnage, is an English term. The total volume of all ship's spaces and enclosed decks shall be calculated from which the double bottom and some service spaces are calculated. So it's calculated, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U11	Aivar Chef, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U12	The way it's calculated, I'm clear, but just this number 300. Has there been an analysis, or has it been decided that ships of this size will now go down here and the smaller ones will not go? Has this been agreed anywhere in the European Union or where this agreement has been made?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U13	Thank you. I must answer this question in writing, I owe you an answer. He has now come to us as such, as this convention has been developed. And as a result of that same convention, it has a gross tonnage of 300 or more. So I owe you that answer. We will certainly answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U14	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U15	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm interested in history. How has the removal of Estonian wreckage occurred so far, and how much has the state spent in recent years? Can you give me a little heads-up?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U16	Thank you. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the biggest cost in our recent history has been associated with the Runner 4 wreck in 2006. The cost of the state was 2.32 million euros then, was to be borne by the Estonian state from the tax money. If this convention had been in force at that time, it would have been covered by insurance money, not by Estonian taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U17	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. And now I would like to ask Mr Kravchenko, member of the Committee on the Environment, to co-rapporteur here on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U18	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed this bill with a beautiful number at its meeting on 20 January, chaired by Erki Savisaar. The following members of the committee took part in the meeting: Yoko Alender, Riho Breivel, Peeter Ernits, Heiki Kranich, Igor Kravtšenko, i.e. I, Üllar Saaremäe and Mart Võrguship. There was no Evgeny Ossinovsky. Ministry officials were invited to Harry Liiv and marine department chief specialist Agni Kaldma. First, Harry Liiv gave us an overview of the bill, followed by questions. Erki Savisaar, for example, has examined that the Convention has been adopted in 2007, but why it is only now being ratified. Harry Liiv said that other conventions have been implemented in the context of the Baltic Sea, which have been more necessary, and there have been few such wrecks in Estonian waters. Erki Savisaar also asked whether the Convention would apply if ships were to sink in somebody's territorial sea and how many countries had joined the Convention. Agni Kaldma said that the Convention applies only to national exclusive economic zones and territorial waters. He promised to clarify the number of countries that had joined and to send a reply in writing to the members of the Commission. This has been done today and we know that the number of countries that have joined is 48. Yoko Alender asked if the convention would apply retroactively, Harry Liiv replied not. Yoko Alender was very curious and asked whether the main focus of the Convention was to give shipowners the obligation to secure the ship and who would carry out a risk assessment in the event of a wrecking. Harry Liiv agreed to this, saying yes, there will be an obligation to secure the ship. The decision to bring out the wreck will be made by each country itself. In Estonia, it is decided by the Environmental Inspectorate, elsewhere by a competent authority in a particular country. Erki Savisaar examined when the draft relating to the implementation of the Convention would arrive in the Riigikogu. Agni Kaldma replied that it was currently pending at MKM. Harry Liiv added that it's on this year's work schedule. Member of the Commission Peeter Ernits asked where the 14 dangerous wrecks mentioned in the explanatory memorandum were located in the Estonian Sea. The officials of the Ministry were so good that today we have this very thick table. The oldest one I found there is the wreck of a sinking ship in 1874. Heiki Kranich wanted to know the list of the States that joined the Convention, the Ministry officials sent it, and today we have access to this list. Two consensual decisions were taken at the end of the consultation. The first was the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, i.e. by 27 January. The second decision was to propose the completion of the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U19	Thank you. Looks like there's no questions. Thank you! Proposal by the Governing Commission... Oh, yeah, you want to negotiate? The representatives of the political groups, it seems, do not want that. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 123. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 10 February at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U20	And now we're coming up with some questions we've got three today. The first is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Aivar Sõerdi, Kaja Kallas, Urmas Kruuse and Andres Sut on 5 December for tax-free management contracts. I remind you of the questioning procedure. First, the representative of the interviewers will be speaking from the board for up to five minutes, then the minister's answer will be up to 15 minutes, and then each member of the Riigikogu may ask each of the two together one oral question, the length of which is one minute. And then it will be possible to open negotiations. First of all, I ask Aivar Sõerdi, the representative of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! I will briefly give an overview of the content and purpose of this inquiry. First of all, of course, it must be said that it has been almost two months since the question was submitted, but nevertheless the issue is topical, as it was raised at first reading of the draft to free the second pillar of the pension, but, in the same renewed form, linked to the government's vote of confidence, we are again debating here on Wednesday. Indeed, on 2 September, when the first reading of the draft law on funded pensions was 108, the Minister of Finance Martin Helme, answering questions from members of the Riigikogu, described how he hired a working man to carry out the construction of Urmas' house by means of a tax-free decree. And the Minister of Finance assured the Riigikogu that, as far as he knew, the builder had not worked for one day in such a way that taxes had been paid. The Minister also announced that his contractor, working under a command contract, is absolutely not interested in what happens to his pension. In short, the context was that either the person is responsible for his or her future, his or her pension, or the state must also take responsibility for it. This subject went, like, to a broader approach. The question arose as to whether the Minister had any tax liability. And then the Minister's comment came on this later concept of a command agreement: that then, just as there is no income tax liability. But then the tax office woke up and said that there should have been a social tax obligation. In this regard, we have a number of questions to which we ask the Prime Minister to answer. In the meantime, such developments have also been here, perhaps it is quite appropriate to say that on 14 January I happened to hear that the Prime Minister was on Kuku's radio. Someone called the studio and asked the Prime Minister that we had this minister's tax story that has never been heard since. Jüri Ratas replied that he does not need to know all the tax matters that the tax administration is dealing with. But the Prime Minister also said that there will soon be such an inquiry in the Riigikogu and then he will come here and tell us how things are. In fact, we didn't ask for it as heirs, and the Minister's affairs are between the tax administration and the minister. But when the Prime Minister explains how this tax matter has been resolved, it is very grateful. Moreover, since this issue has led to questionable issues, the taxpayers' association has in January turned to the Chancellor of Justice from the very case and asked whether this tax approach, as announced by the tax administration, is legitimate and reasonable and whether taxpayers' rights and obligations are balanced. This issue has been discussed in the last issue of Taxpayer magazine, so half of it is devoted to it. So the subject remains topical and I would like to thank the Prime Minister in advance for his answers to the questions we have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U22	Thank you. The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U23	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! Thank you very much for this question and thank you for this serious introduction. It is true that, on 5 December 2019, four members of the Reform Party Group submitted an inquiry into tax-free management agreements. I thank you for your questioning! I will try to answer you as accurately and meaningfully as I can in this context. I understand that an inquiry is motivated by a very specific case, as explained by the representative of the heirs, I think it was examples or answers given during the procedure of the 108 draft law. The Riigikogu has enough instruments to control the government and, of course, to ask for all the details, but you can also ask for them from a specific member of the government. But then let's get to the questions. The first question: 'If the builder fails to pay taxes, do you think it is fair that all the remaining taxpayers pay off the emergency medical care and other public services of the builder who works exempt from tax and will also pay his pension in the future? ' Pursuant to § 2 of the Tax Administration Act, a tax is a one-off or periodic financial obligation imposed by law or by a decree of a municipality or city council on the taxpayer for the performance of the public tasks of the State or local government or for the purpose of obtaining the income necessary for that purpose, which is executed in accordance with the procedure, size and time limits laid down by law or regulation and which does not have a direct refund for the taxpayer. Non-payment or evasion of taxes corresponding to such a definition is not fair. As the Tax and Customs Board puts the heart of society: paying taxes is a social agreement that we have jointly chosen, which guarantees the functioning of the state and provides social guarantees for every person. The second question: 'The Tax Administration estimates that tax evasion, or the payment of envelope wages, is the biggest tax problem in Estonia. How big do you think this problem is in the construction sector? ' According to the Tax and Customs Board, the estimated annual tax losses in the construction sector at the end of the third quarter of 2019 are EUR 8.7 million due to the payment of envelope wages due to income and social contributions. In addition, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board estimates that the envelope wages will not result in VAT in the amount of EUR 11.3 million. According to the Agency, 27% of companies in the construction sector have the risk of being paid with an envelope salary, i.e. this risk exists, one could say, for every fourth construction company. Now, perhaps it is quite appropriate to mention this issue, the members of the Reform Party Group have just asked this question and had no concern at all about tax receipts, that I recall that the Reform Party stated in autumn 2018 that people are increasingly looking for wages from businesses in cash because they do not want to pay taxes. And the share of envelope wages is increasing. This was due, I remember, to the fact that we made a major reform of the income tax-free minimum in this century, and if we now look at the estimates of the Conjuncture Institute, the payment of envelope wages has not increased significantly. This figure has been fickle over time and has fallen to 6% in 2018. Now, for example, a study of the CVkestus.ee job portal shows that the share of envelope wages fell to record low levels in 2019. In 2010, almost one in three respondents had been exposed to the envelope wage, while in 2019, 4.7% of respondents confirmed that they had received the envelope wage. The third question: 'In the future, the state must guarantee the working man Urmas at least a national pension with health insurance, even if he has not contributed to the collection of the pension. Do you consider it fair that the builder's national pension, together with health insurance, must be paid by taxpayers who have not worked under a tax-free law contract? ' As I said in the introductory part of the answer to the question, it is very difficult for me to have a say in the Urmas case in detail. I do not have an accurate overview of the basis on which the worker Urmas works, how he has organised his tax liability or how he contributes to health insurance. Such cases can certainly be asked by people who have made specific claims. Now the fourth question: 'Do you agree with the explanation given by the Tax and Customs Board that, in the case described above, the principal's duties under the Tax Act arose? ' In particular, the differences of opinion arising in the interpretation of tax laws are settled by the courts. However, I have asked for an explanation from the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the question of questioning, and I will also present it here. Pursuant to the Income Tax Act, a self-employed employer is exempted from withholding income tax on remuneration payable to another natural person under a contract of employment or management. Income tax must be withheld only if a contract of employment has been concluded between natural persons aimed at establishing a more permanent type of employment relationship. In the case of income generated under a management contract, the person who received the income shall be required to submit the income tax return and to pay the income tax. How can you deal with a situation when you buy three kilos of honey from a neighbor or pay for breaking and stacking trees in two rooms or order ten sticks to go to the sauna, for example? The Tax and Customs Board recommends a business account here. The service provider needs to open an account, at least one service provider can do so online. The business account is specifically designed to resolve the provision and payment of services between natural persons by simplifying transactions and reducing administrative burdens. The entry of a fee in the account of the service provider by the parties themselves is limited. Neither of them has to submit any tax returns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U24	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You kind of failed to make a moral assessment of this matter, I think. And I find it sad that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia openly says that his minister-appointed worker Urmas does not pay taxes, and now, as it turns out, he himself has not paid social tax for this possible contract of command, just as these statements appear. I want to know if you spoke to Finance Minister Martin Helme as Prime Minister and asked him if he had paid those taxes and how it was under the law. What does it look like now, especially in the light of the dismantling of the pension system, which may reduce the desire to pay social tax? Did you get the answers from him, or did you ask him?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U26	Thank you. I'm sure I've made my assessment, and I can say it again. Of course, it is important for all people to declare revenues from their main activities and important ancillary activities. Important ancillary activities are those that are regularly dealt with and have become part of monthly income. You asked whether, in the context of this question, I had asked the Minister of Finance for his opinion on whether we had spoken on this issue. The answer is, yes, briefly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U27	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U28	Thank you. Mr. Ratas, you do have an unintelligent habit of congratulating the questioner. Now you're starting to tell me that someone from the Reform Party had once said something about envelope wages. For example, I have never predicted an increase in envelope wages. But I'd like to ask you without any appreciation. I can say that this 500-euro tax-free minimum, this differentiated minimum, totally legally favours the payment of tax-free wages. This mechanism exists, but our party has hardly predicted anything. My question is also about morality. How does it help that maybe someone once predicted it to help the Minister of Finance behave? After all, he brought the so-called reform of the pension system to Urmas, for example, and repeatedly said that, in fact, as it is not necessary to think about its future, there is no need to save. He said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that it is really everyone's business how much he receives. How now do these references to the questioners help to solve the national problem and the problem of Urmas and the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U29	Thank you very much for this question. What I brought out was really a political debate. It was a debate whether an increase in the tax-free minimum would encourage the payment of envelope wages or not. And I just took out the data from the Conjuncture Institute: paying the envelope salary, so that's a percentage of the employees. And as you can see from here, it fluctuates year after year with a pretty big amplitude. In some years it has been 7%, for example in 2014, but in 2015 and 2017 it has been 11% and 13% respectively, and in 2018, as I said, 6%. Now, this concern you have pointed out, this particular example of the man Urmas. If extended, I think it is actually a very sincere concern when you ask how people earn their pensions and how they ensure access to medical care through their employment relationship. I mean, health insurance. And we actually see, for example, taking the last, say, four-five-six years that there has been an area that has been very intensively addressed by the Riigikogu and, I think, also by the government to solve certain cases. I am talking about the sport sector, where there have been very large scholarships and the problem has been precisely what you say: people have perhaps not had enough time to think about their future retirement and also about health insurance at any point in time. This is an entirely sincere concern relating to a very large and important area. If for a moment to remove the word 'worker' from the front and leave only this symbolic name of one person, then yes, there really are areas in Estonia where there have been majors, I would not even say that only disputes, but I would say in a positive way that there are also negotiations with the Tax and Customs Board on how to solve this issue. And here came then, I think, it was five-six years ago, also the state and government and the Riigikogu to help very seriously. That is how we have had these areas, and there are certainly more where solutions should be sought.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U30	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In your answers, you briefly described the position of the Ministry of Finance regarding the tax case of Urmas, the particular minister and worker. You were talking about income tax: that if there is a contract of employment, it is necessary to respect income tax, but in this case there was a contract of command for which there is no obligation to retain income tax. That's clear. However, the question was whether the employer, in this case the minister, had a duty to pay social tax on the wages transferred to Urmas. In particular, the tax administration has said that there would have been a social tax obligation in any event. Please see what the Ministry has said about this. Is that...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U32	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U33	...the Minister had or didn't have a social tax obligation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U34	Thank you for this question. As I said, according to the Tax and Customs Board, it is the easiest option in such situations to make it easier for a small worker to open an entrepreneur's account in a bank. Like I said, he's either going to be transferred to an entrepreneur's account, or he's going to be paid in cash. That's for instance, I don't know, for breaking trees, making sauna sticks or cleaning up. And that is what the parties themselves do, neither of them has to submit any tax returns. When it comes to social tax, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board considers that it is a service governed by public debt. As I said, if it really is a contract of command, the employee is an independent service provider and the employee is liable for income tax, but the employer must also pay the social tax, as well as withholding the compulsory funded pension payment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U35	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U36	Good President! Good Prime Minister! You have repeatedly stressed the importance of the tax debate. How's a job relationship like this when I invite someone to my house who paints the walls or cleans the room fit in with the tax bat you're planning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U37	As I have told you, I am certainly based on the fact that it is important for all people to declare the revenue from their main activities and important ancillary activities. And I'm sure I'll stick to that idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U38	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U39	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The questions have been driven by the answers of the Minister for Finance when reading the draft law on funded pensions, and I would continue from the same angle. Tax discipline is certainly very important and you yourself have also said that making funded pensions voluntary would mean that our people should be prepared to accept lower pensions in the future. How do you think the draft that prompted us to ask, as did this particular example, will affect people's tax discipline and people's motivation to collect and save their future pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U40	Thank you. Well, I understand that now you are going to go more deeply into the contents of this bill. I think this is a good opportunity, because I have some fresh information from the government. We sent a new draft to the Riigikogu today and you will certainly have a very interesting and substantive discussion on Wednesday. I wish the members of the Riigikogu strength and success for this purpose. It is a good thing that you can hold a substantive debate and that the focus is not directed towards ten-minute intervals, running in and out. After that, it could be that for several weeks the general work of the Riigikogu has been paralyzed. That is why we chose this path based on constitutionality, which, I think, is very reasonable, precisely in view of the desire not to hold back the proceedings of the Riigikogu and paralyse the working capacity of the Riigikogu. You asked how people can plan their future savings, invest. I think that is, let us be honest, an ideological dispute about the ideological dispute over what solution each person chooses for himself as a second or third pillar or another pillar. One way is to prescribe this very forcefully. It is very convenient for me to look at it from my political family, the side of the European Union. The liberal attitude is to give people the freedom to decide for themselves how to invest their savings. Whoever wants to continue collecting into the second pillar, as we know, does not change the basic principles of the past, who wants to invest this money in some other way. After all, there are investment accounts and there are other investment opportunities. People must have freedom, choice. At the same time, I agree with the concern that you have raised. In any case, it is important to think about this and, in a good way, to contribute to thinking about the possibilities of obtaining the highest possible income in head years, the investment opportunities available to a person of working age when working. I think this bill offers free options, I think it certainly offers new options. I think it is positive that we give people the freedom to decide for themselves. And anyone who wishes can really continue to collect into the second pillar. I have also said here that some very well-known, popular people in our society have said that they will immediately withdraw the money from the second pillar. Well, I don't know, they have the chance, but personally, I've sensed the system is good, I'd rather collect.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U41	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U42	Thank you. Mr. George Ratas! I want to get your personal assessment, too. I ask you this: do you think that, despite the Hippocrates oath, health care professionals have the same freedom to leave such Urmases untreated for health insurance money? After all, Urmas and the Minister have taken the liberty of deciding whether or not to pay taxes, even though they are citizens of the Republic of Estonia and have certain obligations to both the state and the law. And how do you think we should react to such cases, as the head of the government, if the Minister openly acknowledges them in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, where all people have access to what is happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U43	Thank you, good questioner! If you have a question about how the citizen is guaranteed access to health care, then I do not know. There's a very good chance that a person works permanently somewhere and sometimes does some random work. How he has paid taxes is very difficult to descend into these individual cases. And I don't think I have to do that, so there is a professional authority in Estonia. But let's just say that there's a person who's only doing casual jobs, gets income for them, and doesn't pay taxes. If he or she is not of retirement age, he or she is not automatically guaranteed access to medical care. In Estonia, there is actually a pretty high percentage of such people, and in number too. However, the Estonian state has at least ensured that when we talk about emergency medical care, they have it. But true, when we talk about primary care, family medical care, which is, I think, the most important thing for medical care, because first they turn there, it is unsolved. Maybe this extension was also the reason why I answered Jürgen Ligi in this way. In fact, we have quite a lot of problematic areas in Estonia, and I come out of construction for a moment, where people actually receive income that is not taxed either by income tax or by social tax. These people do not automatically have access to medical care. This was also a particularly acute issue in the field of sport, and the Tax and Customs Board dealt with it, as I said, very intensively. And, in my opinion, he was working in the right direction, trying to find solutions, but they did not just have the purpose of punishing, even though there were penalties. And in my opinion, the government and the Riigikogu also came to great help.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U44	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U45	Thank you. Prime Minister! You will also see that after the Minister of Finance of this very remote area said that he hired a worker and did not pay taxes, this story, how to say, has reached a pretty wide range of sounds. It has been dissected in the press both in and out of the media, and the Tax and Customs Board has also read their words. So estimates are as given. A few questions ago, you made a suggestion that people who work in this way could set up an entrepreneurial account. You also said that you had briefly spoken to the Minister of Finance on this subject. In fact, people have two choices: either to do what you suggest, or to set up an entrepreneurial account, or to follow what the Minister of Finance did. What's your ex-post recommendation to the Minister of Finance that he can do now? People should actually have the same understanding...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U47	... how should we approach it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U48	Thank you very much. In that sense, you are right that the subject is interesting. Your groupmate, Mr Sõerd, described that an important magazine devoted half of its number to it. I'm sure people will read it with great interest. Now, I've sent you the Tax and Customs Board's recommendation to create an entrepreneurial account. At the same time, I also go around Estonia. There is nothing to do, after all, in Estonia the tradition of talugus is very common, and you also know that it is common. And it has been a pleasant Estonian custom to offer winter soup since the talugus. Well, I don't know if the Tax and Customs Board should run into the farmyard and find out where those taxes are and so on. We still have to stay on the ground with two legs, don't we? If you come to the haywork or to break wood, I'm sure you can offer some soup. This one case that you specifically described, I will say once again, that I really do not deal with such specific cases. Yes, of course revenue must be declared and the business account will certainly provide a more convenient opportunity than it was years ago. But in some places, people just come to help. You're not gonna ask me if you have an entrepreneur's account, and if you don't, you can't buy or break trees. Well, I believe that good solutions, legal solutions will be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U49	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U50	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! In my opinion, my favourite subject has been overlooked in this debate. It doesn't matter whether Urmas really exists, whether Martin Helme paid him or offered him soup. There is no doubt that common sense must be applied and that line must be drawn somewhere. This is about the attitude of the Minister of Finance. At the end of this Urmas, he says, "What are we going to do with these people?" And, well, we're not gonna let them starve? In the case of the entire pension market, the Minister of Finance has also represented the view in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that if someone eats their winter stocks in the autumn, he will see for himself how he can handle it until spring. What the hell is going on? Shouldn't the minister, being responsible for his field, set an example, be concerned that the tax system is simple, understandable to people, so that people can...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U51	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U52	...in due time for help? Shouldn't he stand for the bill still taking us that way in society...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U54	... that we have a caring and cohesive society, rather than promoting the eating of winter supplies in the autumn...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U56	...and then let's see who lives till spring?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U57	The next colleague, who talks so long, is simply asking for the microphone to be shut down. This has been done very accurately in previous formations when the time is up. But please, Mr. Minister has the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U58	Thank you. As for the comment made by the Minister of Finance, that is really what he says at the end: 'What we do with them will do exactly what we do today: hunger will not let us die. 'Well, that's a very humanistic approach. Another way would be to let people starve. The state still has to stand up for it to support all people, from different deciles. And when people have social problems and difficulties, a helping hand must be handed. I do not believe that you, as Social Democrats, want to reject these people and tell them that when you ate your winter supplies, you crisped them up already in the autumn, you see how you do. It's not like that! We see today that there is, in fact, a great deal of voluntary assistance in society. For example, a lot of Estonian Food Bank donates there, not only legal persons, but also natural persons. They come to the aid of the people, the local authorities come to the aid of the people, the state comes to the aid of the people, and that is, I think, the duty of the state. It is the duty of the state! As they say, no one should be left behind. But the right idea is that we actually have to take a responsible approach. Indeed, as you say, you must not live beyond your power. It must also be considered that there may be a cold winter period ahead and that there must be, as far as possible, the necessary things in the pantry or in the cellar tray. It is also right that you should not give up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U59	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U60	Good chairman of the sitting! Prime Minister! I see that, thanks to our Member of Parliament, the workman Urmas, who has come up with a matter of almost national importance, has paid the salary, although I assume that this salary may have been some sort of three or four figures. I have a question about the money laundering scandal that made the Estonian state famous. Is there a report coming up, or is there any idea of how much we did not pay our country in relation to the billions that were washed out here in the course of money laundering?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U61	Thank you. I think that the subject you raised is a very painful but important lesson. I hope we have learned from this, and in that sense it is very right to ask about it. The damage that a country suffers from money laundering is very serious. We may be the fastest measuring of reputational damage according to how it is written outside Estonia. Unfortunately, it has to be said that this is an issue that continues to figure out in the foreign press, not only the positive messages that the government is making today to strengthen the position of the country, but also the information that has happened. Painful lesson for Estonia! You are asking whether there is information about how much foreign investment could not be received in Estonia, how much investment was left behind and, as a result, I do not know, the labour tax has not been collected. I have not seen such a specific analysis, and I think it is extremely difficult to do so. But I'm sure what happened has left a very deep negative mark. This has been one of the longest, if not the longest, period that has produced negative news on foreign media for Estonia, I think. However, today we can say that we have not all grown smarter, stronger and better. The fight against money laundering has certainly improved in terms of police and border control, the Financial Supervision Authority, the international exchange of information. I will give you the latest examples of this government's work. The Minister of Finance has had to go to the United States to explain the matter, so I have been to the United States and Scandinavia to give a lot of explanations. But I can't answer you. I understand you want a financial analysis. I'm afraid it's not, and it's very difficult to allow it here in front of you. However, it is certain that this failure has had a very negative impact on the Estonian state in terms of international business and investment. This effect is very, very great.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U62	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Your answer to Andres Sut's question prompted me to ask. I don't know what kind of world you live in. Do you really think that all people in Estonia are competent to invest and know how to do things, how to save, and certainly think in advance what will happen in 20 or 40 years' time? My question is: aren't you worried that if you break the second pension pillar, what happens to those people who don't have the knowledge that doesn't have the sense of responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U64	You're asking about pension pillars, and I'm happy to answer. First of all, the world I live in. In the Republic of Estonia. The Republic of Estonia is the world in which I live. And with the concern about your question, I'm very much in agreement. Of course, we cannot tell all people to make investment accounts or then send all these Estonians to Mr Sut for consultation. He will not be able to accept all of them, even though he would certainly be able to give good advice on where to place his bills. Point one. Point two is that our people certainly know the great wisdom of this farm boy's wisdom, so if you can, you have to keep something in your stockings, don't you? Something needs to be saved, as much as possible. But the possibility of saving people is certainly very different, especially in our society, where many do not really have what they want to save. Now, what do we do? I understand that your focus is primarily on the person whose working life is over. If a person is retired, how can he or she benefit from his or her savings, his or her set aside money, or through his or her investment into his or her national pension? I'm sure it worries you, of course it worries me! That is why I have said that I can be criticised and that the opposition can send me to the fireplace as much as possible, but I would argue that this extraordinary pension rise of EUR 7 will also help, as the more kind opponents say, and those who are very critical will say that it is only EUR 1 and 40 cents. I say every cent we can add to the indexation is appreciated. And I sincerely think it's a pleasure. On the one hand, very little has been done, most recently 12 years ago. Whether there has been insufficient political will, or there has not been enough money, there are certainly different reasons. Now we have seen over a long time that there is an opportunity to raise the average old-age pension of EUR 45: this is so indexation of EUR 38 plus an extraordinary increase of EUR 7. It's going to the base for everyone. It costs about 21 million to the state budget. But your observation is very important and correct. If I may now jump to the next question, which specifically deals with the availability of medicines, but also talks about the prices of medicines, it has been done that there is an additional support for prescription medicines for those who consume prescription medicines with a cost of more than EUR 100 per year or more than EUR 300 per year. They receive 50% or 90% discount. So the answer to you is, of course, I agree that not everyone is going to create investment accounts. A little bit of that has to do with the wider question. But ask every person if you have an entrepreneur's account, and if you don't, there's no way you can buy a service, well, in practical life we realize that it's very complicated, if not impossible. Thank you for this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U65	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U66	Thank you, Minister. I'm glad to see you're in a good mood. When you answered Mr Jüri's question, you made fun of the haystack and the soup. But in fact, paying taxes is a serious issue and, as you said, the tax administration has worked hard to improve the tax system. This is a social agreement. And now I'm going to quote Martin Helme from here on the remote, where he said, "I built a house in the country and invited a worker named Urmas to help me there from time to time. Urmas was the kind of man I don't think has worked a day to pay taxes. He doesn't really care what happens to his retirement. ' Clearly, the Minister of Finance has said here that paying taxes is not a priority, and in fact he was proud that there were such people, such a working arrangement. I would still ask for your personal assessment that if the Minister brags about the fact that paying taxes is not a social agreement and a norm that should be respected. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U67	Thank you. First I ask you not to put words in my mouth. I was very respectful when I was talking about hay and talgusup. This has been the case for very long decades. I don't know where you guys got that, that I said condescending, or, I don't know, I was kidding. I'm not kidding. Let's go. I understand you're reading a sentence or a sentence from the Minister of Finance here. And there's also a sentence that he doesn't really care what happens to his retirement. This is the sentence that the Minister of Finance has said before the Riigikogu, I understand, on 2 December. I'm sorry, I wasn't in that debate, but when I read that sentence, I'm gonna read the whole other way around. I have seen the attitude of the Minister of Finance towards the budgetary process, the attitude of the state's budgetary strategy, responsible monetary policy, and I read here that he says that this is a major concern in Estonian society. The exact attitude of a lot of people is that they don't care what pension is. I gave you an example of sport. I said, either people didn't care about paying taxes or they didn't have a chance. But young athletes were paid scholarships for a very long time. I can't tell you, I don't have any statistics, how many of them were worried that this might mean that their pension will be smaller in the future, and how many people just thought it was important that I have this net figure at the end of each month. I really think that this is what we need to say more about society, that we need to be concerned about this, whether a person is 19 years old, 20 years old, 45 years old or 55 years old. I think a young person should also be told that if you start your career as a worker or a workwoman at the beginning of your career, think immediately about how you will raise your pension and other savings that you can use during your retirement period. And before that, how do you get to the doctor that Mrs. Vilja was asking about? I think these are very correct questions. But that's what everyone's worried about automatically, I don't think we can say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U68	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! 'New news' should be the title of this taxpayer's magazine, because half of it, in my opinion, is devoted to covering up tax fraud and envelope wages. In the last paragraph, Lasse Lehis himself states that it would be reasonable to accept that there is a thin grey zone between the white and the black world, where there is no theoretical justification or practical need to collect taxes. Certainly, Martin Helme should have paid social tax and this social tax would certainly have gone up by a cent not to every Estonian pensioner, but to a zero point with something that you certainly consider to be very important. Please tell me how wide you think this may be a grey zone and whether all Estonian small entrepreneurs could settle in that grey zone and start working there and stick to the envelope wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U70	Thank you. I explained how widespread it is, according to the Conjuncture Institute, to pay the envelope salary. These employees were 6% in 2018, 13% in 2017, 8% in 2016, 11% in 2015, 7% in 2014. I also noted that the CVkestus.ee study of the work portal shows that the share of envelope wages fell to record low levels in 2019. In 2010, almost one in three respondents had been exposed to the envelope wage, while in 2019, 4.7% of respondents confirmed that they had received the envelope wage. I don't have any other percent to bring you here, I don't know how big this gray zone could be.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U71	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question is driven by your response to our colleague from the Social Democratic Party. You mentioned that if an individual eats his winter potatoes by Christmas Eve, for example, it is natural that the state and the municipality go to his aid. It's very humane. I fully understand that, and I even agree with it, but there should still be a limit. But how do you feel about winter potatoes suggesting that the Government of the Republic eat up by the date of the local elections? If it's the government. I mean the dismantling of the second pension pillar. How did you manage to set this payout date by September 1st so that people could still get that money before the local elections? And why do you expect people to invest when you just said that people don't care what their pension is? What makes you think people's opinion will suddenly change overnight?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U73	Thank you. I guess we're all politicians here. Mr. Kivimägi, I think you're always such a two-foot person. I didn't really say the sentence that people don't care what their pension is. I said that there are certainly young people who do not think when they start their career as a worker or as a workwoman, what their pension will be. That's what I said. And I added that if a person is young and God would give that there are as many years as possible when he doesn't have to go to a doctor, he might say that I don't care about the health insurance fund either. I didn't say in my answer that people don't care how much their pension is. I brought an extra sportsman's example to the side. I think you put some thoughts in my mouth, I'm rejecting them. Your second question was linked to the voluntaryisation of the second pillar of pension, and to when certain provisions will be implemented and the money will actually be paid out. As you know, the wish of the government coalition was to process this bill at a different pace, to process it more quickly. At the same time, it was clear that there were a lot of opinions and suggestions during the proceedings. We will take, or the Chancellor of Justice, if I am not mistaken, a letter of 39-point proposals to the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu. One suggestion was that it should not be done in haste, it must be sufficient time, there was a lot of talk about this 18 months. It's settled today. But the desire was, in fact, to process this bill much faster and also to enforce it. After all, the coalition agreement says that we wanted to make it by the beginning of this year. It has now been several weeks, and there have been new arguments, including the arguments of the Chancellor of Justice, that it would take 18 months. It is also very strongly based on the fact that many IT solutions will not be completed sooner. Can't hurry. This law, which will be before you, the honourable Riigikogu, will be on Wednesday, will enter into force in general order, but these statements can be submitted for the first time from the beginning of next year until 31 March. In April, the applications for the investment account should come and the first payments will be on 1 September. Your idea, I understand, is that the government has somehow very cleverly linked it to the election of local governments in 2021. At the meetings I've been in, no one ever said that it was very good, that somehow we're diming the payout into that time. One might ask why this is not October 1 would be more concrete to see that it really has something to do with this. But in fact, our ambition was different, the desire to do it much faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U74	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U75	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! In answer to the question of Mart Võrguship, you said that Martin Helme was actually concerned about the Estonian people, that his rhetoric was a different idea. I think that among all the other people, you should know very well how this rhetoric is. But I assume that his concern really was that people don't care what happens to their pension, and your position was based on it. If you share this concern and you said in your reply that you share it, why are you going to break up the pension system and put all the responsibility for pensions only in the state and take away people's own responsibility for collecting your pension, saying that you are going to break it up?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U76	Thank you for this question. I said I wasn't in this debate, but I feel that answer in a very different way. I think it is actually quite important that politicians say, and also in society at large, that when I start earning income, I need to think automatically about how I collect my pension for the future, what it will be like. And I also need to think about how I can get high-quality medical care as soon as possible, at least from a family doctor. Now, however, the more important part of your question, where there was the statement that we are demolishing the pension system. I think you ended up saying, "Kick that money." I'm sure I'll disprove it. On the contrary, I see that people are getting much better, much wider and with greater opportunities, let's say, ampluaa to place their investments. There will certainly be much greater pressure on the various funds that currently offer contracts to provide better conditions for allocating people's incomes and for receiving bigger pensions in the future. I also said today at the press conference that we would give people who are not in the second pillar a chance to join it sometime. And these bases are exactly the same as they are today. Member of the Riigikogu Kristina Šmigun-Vähi today asked why I have a certain opinion. But I believe that we finally came to the conclusion that I have not thought that everyone knows how to make investment accounts and invest. However, some really want to do so, and this opportunity will certainly be possible thanks to a more flexible voluntary system. Now, your claim was that maybe everyone's gonna smack that money. I wouldn't feel that way. I think that the people of Estonia will certainly draw much more from this wisdom, that they will also think what tomorrow or the day after tomorrow will bring. True, if we know that on average there is EUR 6 000 in the second pillar, I think that very many people may be thinking of using it to improve their living conditions. I have mentioned, for example, the statistics provided by the academic, that a very large part of our population lives in apartments, apartment buildings. And in many apartments, bad conditions are such that they need to be improved. I believe that people who leave the pillar actually behave prudently in most cases and do not pursue the objective of simply squeezing or spending this money, as you say. And at the same time, we have to take into account that for a very large part, if not most, everything remains. They can continue to collect into the second pension pillar, as they have done so far. However, I think that they will actually be offered better and better contracts, better conditions, because there will be real competition in the market. I think that this too is useful and sensible, because competition still leads to further progress.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U77	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! My question concerns tax-free law enforcement treaties, and this in relation to what has been presented here today as a matter of national importance concerning the Urmas fee. I'll come a little closer to this hall. The Social Democrats bombarded you quite a lot of questions, but in connection with this question, I remembered a "Kuuuriver" show that I saw some time ago, where our good colleague, Jevgeni Ossinovski, allegedly used black money to pay the workers for the repair of his apartment on Toompea. Allegedly! What is your assessment of this, and should we not, as Members of Parliament, set an example in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U79	Thank you. Well, oh-oh-hoo... I admit I haven't looked at the Moon Explorer. However, if such an accusation has now been made about a member of the Riigikogu, another example was about the representative of the EKRE. Maybe next time there's someone from the Centre Party, you asked about the representative of the Social Democratic Party. Of course, you can ask for that in the context of your inquiry. So what's my point? My argument is the same as the one that has been going through in answering this question: of course, the revenue must be declared. It's important, it's important. I am very sorry, but just as I rejected this Martin Helme and the working man Urmas, saying that I am not commenting specifically on this case, so I really do not know how to comment on the fate of 'The Month Investigator' and Jevgeni Ossinovski. I'll be honest with you, I can't. But basically, I take the same view of this example you gave, as I said in reply to this whole question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U80	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions. Would you like to negotiate? Looks like it is. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! In any case, it is gratifying that we have addressed this issue here today. The context of this inquiry is, of course, much wider; it concerns the amendment of the pension law. After all, when commenting on the Urmas case, it is also the ideology that, although Urma, a concrete or fictitious worker, is absolutely not interested in what will become of his pension in the future, the state must still guarantee at least a national pension for this worker. But I will now come specifically to a subject that is really important. It is still the taxation of services between two natural persons. The Prime Minister said the solution is an entrepreneurial account. But you see, there are 1600 business accounts after this regulation is in place. But there are tens or hundreds of thousands of such halturans between the two civilians. The Taxpayers' Association, which has gone deep into this matter, also made an inquiry to the tax authorities about how many cases there are. Indeed, as the Prime Minister said, everyone must declare their income, as the tax law provides. Those cases where an individual is subject to withholding tax were examined. As far as is known in this case, it must be declared on the corresponding declaration form and the tax paid. There were 65 such cases last year. 65! However, the declaration form in which these personal income tax deductions are declared has more than ten entries. And one item of item No 18 is for the very same worker in the Urmas case. This item is a service and service fee paid by a natural person under a debt-law contract, which is not subject to income tax, but is subject to social tax. There were four of them last year. So the law requires these fees to be declared, but it is not applied in practice. Well, imagine for yourself. Let's take an example of haymaking, the neighbor has a tractor. It's winter time, it's not snow, but if it is, the neighbor will come and clear the way, and then I'll pay him a little bit for it. The first thing to ask now is if he has an entrepreneur's account. If he does not have a business account, then this work must be registered in the employees' register, then the TSD tax return form must be filled in, the tax amount must be declared, then also check how this exemption is calculated and then finally pay the tax. No one really does that, as the IRS statistics show. So we didn't find out here today about the taxation of private individuals' haltuuraots. It is perfectly understandable that the taxpayer's union has also addressed the Chancellor of Justice on this issue. And when the Prime Minister talks about the tax bat here, that's the kind of thing to start with. The taxpayer needs to know how much tax he has to pay. It can't be that there's a gray area somewhere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U82	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U83	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that such a random example can become a major social debate, which has a very grateful role to play in raising people's awareness of how to pay taxes for the work they have ordered as a natural person. However, since speaking time is so short, I would like to return to the issue of so-called human quality. In fact, the minister does not need to know the tax nuances by heart; he may be wrong to understand. Maybe Urmas doesn't exist, it's a poorly designed example. But for me, it is incomprehensible how the Minister, whether in a second pillar debate or in a tax debate, does not have this concern, is not that understanding in order to try to form a legal space where it would be easy for a person to do the right thing, where his social guarantees would be guaranteed regardless of the choices he makes in his life. As for the health insurance of the man Urmas, we could actually have health insurance for all of us, no matter how you work, whether you are a worker in Urmas or whether you are a project-based youth providing your services on the basis of several contracts working alongside the university. Whatever choices you make in the labour market, you need to be sure that if you have a serious health problem or are hit by something else in your life unexpectedly, you have the support of the state, we all have the support of all of us. And third. Since one colourful example may lead to another, I would like to mention separately the subject of renovating my apartment for 6,000 euros due to moisture. Indeed, such concerns do occur to a person, but there is probably no point in making your apartment more humid than just your own. This problem concerns all floor residents. I think the Prime Minister does not want to point out that people, by parade, could start to withdraw second-pillar money and jointly decide that this will be directed towards the renovation of the apartment building in a situation where the state budget significantly reduced the amount that the state envisages renovating apartment buildings. If this is a real concern for people, then the government can solve it in a completely different way than by distributing the second pillar money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U84	It seems that there is no further request to speak. Is there anything else the Minister would like to say? No, I don't. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U85	Let's move on to the agenda. The next item is the inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Urve Tiidus, Jüri Jaanson, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Andrus Seed, Madis Milling, Aivar Sõerd, Andres Sutt, Maris Lauri, Kaja Kallas, Erkki Keldo, Marko Mihkelson and Jürgen Ligi. It is presented on 10 December 2019 and it is presented on the participation of the Minister of Finance's advisor at a press conference of wind farm developers. Representative of the heirs Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U86	Minister of Finance! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! A lot of water has flowed into the sea since the day we asked our questions. It was December. I recall briefly what prompted this question to be made. In December last year, a joint press conference took place between the companies developing Estonian wind farms and its aim was to inform the public that the developers of wind farms are planning to go to court with damages claims against the state, even with very large damages claims, amounting to hundreds of millions, as the participating companies said. For those who do not know the background, I will say very briefly that this press event reflected the differences between the establishment of wind farms and national defence radars between private operators and the state, particularly in Aidu wind farm, but also elsewhere. At the press conference, no one noticed that along with the developers, the Minister of Finance's advisor, Mrs. Kersti Kracht, was known as an entrepreneur and president of the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (EVEA), who was undoubtedly a well-informed person in the field of entrepreneurship. I cannot fail to mention that expertise and experience in the field of entrepreneurship are, in any case, also necessary and useful in politics and the public service. Of course, every person in Estonia has the constitutional right to go to court to defend his or her rights, but in every conflict there are mostly two parties and the roles of the participants in the press conference were not quite clear. That's it. It is in the interests of the Estonian state to ensure that entrepreneurship progresses, that the share of renewable energy grows, but that the national defence objectives that affect all of us can also be implemented. It must be interesting for both the heirs and others to know how this dispute between the developers and the ministry has progressed. Has the warning of fines been passed on to action? What steps have been taken to prevent the country from coming to high standards, or was it still a PR action by wind energy developers, to which the Ministry also contributed a small amount? We have asked a number of questions in this regard, but I also very much hope that the Minister will be able to bring us up to date with the intervening events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U87	Thank you. Now it is time for the addressee of the question, and I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U88	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your questioning. This is the rule of the Riigikogu, that it is often a long time before an inquiry is submitted. Indeed, four questions were asked. I will read them out and give a brief answer, and I believe that we will also get to the debate. The first question was asked: "Whose task did the advisor to the Minister of Finance attend the press conference of wind farm developers? ' I say that my advisor, Kersti Kracht, and my other advisers, do not act without my knowledge or coordination. They were there knowing me and in coordination with me. Secondly, 'A advisor to the Minister for Finance stated at the press conference that too many companies are going to court with the state today. Next year's Ministry of Justice', well, now the Ministry of Justice' budget for this year's year's Justice's budget, for example, includes EUR 4 million for legal expenses. ' And now the Kracht quote follows: 'In our Ministry of Finance, we want this number to be zero. ' Now the question to me is: 'Does the Ministry of Finance want the Ministry of Justice to have a budget for the legal costs of zero? ' As Minister of Finance, I would like the state not to direct companies to go to court immediately if problems arise, but to try to resolve the dispute by negotiation, just as it makes sense to do in any dispute, be it in the public or private sector. We did not mean to deprive the Ministry of Justice of the opportunity to represent the country in court, but to leave as much money as possible unexploited in the budget, as litigation could be avoided. Third: '2018. At the end of 2008, the GRECO report of the Association of Anti-Corruption States established by the Council of Europe recommended that Estonia pay more attention to ministers and political advisors in preventing conflicts of interest and made some recommendations. To what extent did your advisor manage to prevent the potential conflict of interest highlighted in the report at this press conference? 'The councillor of the Minister of Finance, Kersti Kracht, has no personal business interests in wind energy to my knowledge. At meetings with wind farm developers, he represents my wish as a minister to find solutions that protect several Estonian interests: firstly energy security, secondly industrial development, thirdly job creation in Ida-Virumaa, and thus prevention of social problems. They will, of course, be accompanied by the desire to avoid court-martials between businesses and the state and the very high level of damages that may arise. The fourth question: 'How do you think the interests of entrepreneurs and the security of Estonia should be balanced, especially if the public interest outweighs the individual interest? ' As I have pointed out, I am pursuing the objective of ensuring employment and tax revenue in general through the development of entrepreneurship. In the case of wind farms in Ida-Viru County, it is important to emphasise both energy security and the climate policy that we have in national law, as well as regional policy and social policy. Production of windmills in Estonia would provide a good opportunity to create new, cost-effective professional jobs for oil shale workers near home. Valuable jobs and social security in industrial cities in Ida-Virumaa are as important to Estonia's security as radars. How to build wind farms in a way that does not interfere with radar operations can be identified through cooperation between operators and all relevant public authorities. As a minister, I have tried to push and encourage this cooperation as much as possible. I have invited developers as well as public authorities and all those who can find a satisfactory solution to the situation at one table. It is certainly not possible to resolve these problems by going to court. I have responded briefly to these questions, and now I will answer your oral questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U89	Thank you. There are questions for the addressee of the inquiry. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, After this press conference, Minister of Defence Jüri Luik said that it is time for the ferns to comply with the law and the Ministry of Finance had no competence to decide on the threat posed by wind farms to national defence. You have specifically said that the DOD officials are bullying wind farm entrepreneurs. My question is this: do you and the Ministry of Finance take the view that wind power companies' ferns have not broken the law by building higher windmills than promised?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U91	Thank you. In this case, of course, this is a highly multi-layered and complex problem puntra, but I would perhaps start with the fact that we do not have problems with just one particular company. We do not even have problems with one particular region. Development of wind energy has been hampered throughout Estonia for many years, whether on islands, on the west coast, in Ida-Virumaa or in the Gulf of Riga. This problem is considerably wider and all these entangled developments are connected by one clear line. This is the line that the Ministry of Defence is changing the rules from game to game and constantly comes up with new or tightened demands, new coordination requirements. Yes, they may be justified. As has also been said, when wind farms were established, Estonia had no experience of how they would affect our national defence. This is not a unique problem for Estonia, and several other countries have also faced the same concerns. But it has to be said that solutions have been found in other countries. In particular, as regards ferns, it should be noted that they have been courted with the Estonian state primarily because the Estonian state has done exactly what I have just said on the move to change the rules. As a result of going to court, they have won the Estonian state on several occasions and today all their activities in the wind farm have been declared legal. I see, of course, a very serious concern or a problem when the Estonian court says that they can build, but some authorities still say that they can't. I don't think this is right for the rule of law. But maybe to say more broadly, the most important thing to me about all this problem is still to find a solution. We know that solutions exist, technical solutions have been proposed, they have been coordinated, through which the risk of conflict between the development of wind energy and defence interests can be reduced or mitigated. The question now is whether or not there is a will to implement these solutions. One of these solutions is the construction of new radars. It has been approved by the government in Ida-Virumaa and, in principle, allocated funding for it. So we're moving towards solutions. And when the introductory speech asked where it was going in the meantime, it can be said that in the meantime we have at least reached the point that no claims for damages have been made to the Estonian state, and that is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U92	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It was with this last sentence that you answered the question I had planned that no claim for damages had been made. And I understand your message is that it's probably not going to be delivered, is it? How far away is this solution really going to be -- you said that a solution must be found, but not a trial?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U94	Thank you. I believe we are moving towards a solution. This solution is certainly multi-stage and multi-faceted and does not only concern one developer or one specific development. After all, ferns, who have several different legal entities, have more than one wind farm. Very much has been said about Aidus, but there is actually more than one wind farm in Ida-Viru County and more than one developer who has quite similar concerns. So we're moving towards a solution. In this situation, I think it is very important that no one acts in bad faith. It is important that, if we have reached some agreements and tried to find some way to move forward and to reconcile the objectives of Estonian renewable energy, national defence needs and regional policy solutions, then at that time the public authorities would not act in bad faith, creating any new obstacles in the meantime and making some new demands that actually reverse the process or freeze it again. That is what we are trying to achieve.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U95	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U96	Thank you. Good waitress! Listening to your answers, I get the impression that you are on the business side of this issue and that the state has acted inconsistently or has constantly come up with new demands. But how much have you been coordinating with the Department of Defense as part of the government and state? Are you still of the opinion that the ferns have a requirement for Aid's wind farm? And how could this process now move forward in your vision, in order for the government and the state to have a common position?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U97	Thank you. There have been complaints, including in the media, about what this is all about in the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance. It is either a matter for the Minister of Defence, a matter for the Minister of the Environment or a matter for the Minister of Economic Affairs, but in any case it is not a matter for the Minister of Finance. In fact, we have a lot of talk about silo towering in Estonia and how one hand does not know what the other hand is doing in the country. I've always tried to avoid it myself. The fact that we sit in one tower and another in the other tower and only exchange letters with digital signatures is, in my opinion, not a good solution. We have had various meetings in this regard at various levels. There have been ministerial meetings in which there have been at least five ministers at the same time, there have been meetings of officials and there have been meetings involving both economic operators and officials. These meetings have been.. I can't say the exact number of I have spoken to the Minister of Defence, so more formally, and less formally, I have spoken to the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Defence, who has dealt with this issue further. We've been talking, I don't know, maybe three or four times. In this sense, there is nothing unusual or unexpected here, there are so-called sectoral interests and a different understanding or vision of what the best solution is. That's the way it is in life. What we are trying to achieve is that we can get these different interests into some sort of line so that the government can have a common policy. It may take some time, but I believe in it, I'm an optimist. As regards developments or what happens next, let's say that, specifically in the case of Aid, the basis for the claim for damages is that they were given certain coordination and certain building permits, but then the state itself started to block construction activities. At the same time, however, the company had already incurred costs and made investments; current costs were also included. So in this regard, this could have been a claim for damages. If, however, they can go ahead with their development, we do not yet have any final agreement on what volume or type of windmills they are allowed to work with, the dispute is still airborne, I believe we will be able to prevent the State from filing a claim for damages, achieve an increase in the amount of renewable energy and also achieve a considerable tax revenue. That is the goal we are pursuing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U98	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U99	Thank you. Mr. Helme! It must be acknowledged that Jüri Luik is immeasurably more reliable when he says that ferns have to comply with the law than you, who are talking about silo towers, official interests, some sort of big mission of their own, some kind of obstacle that everyone is putting in the way of entrepreneurs, and how the state is always making up some sort of thing. This is extremely unreliable. However, try to unify the impression between you and Jüri Luige from the position of the state. But now I would like to ask you about this financial aspect. How much does a new radar cost compared to these business projects? Can you appreciate this economic sense? Suppose radar costs a few dozen million, but what economic potential does this wind business have in the region? And as a comment, I would add that we are in a slightly different place than those countries where solutions have been easier to find.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U100	Thank you. Beauty is in the eyes of the viewer. Whoever is trustworthy or not, I can't answer that, that's what everyone thinks. I would say that not only businesses have to comply with the law, but also officials have to comply with the law, including officials who have to comply with judgments. Now the price of the radar. This is, of course, estimated, the price may change a little bit further in the procurement, but let's just say that the estimated cost of obtaining a new radar for Ida-Viru County is just under 40 million, 36, 37 million or 38 million. An investment in one of the major wind farms is starting, I don't know, from 200 to 300 million. The biggest development we've got is going to be around a billion. That's the order of magnitude. And it's about construction, isn't it? If we put aside the electricity produced there and its impact on GDP, given that we are very likely to export the electricity produced, if the market is favourable, then there is no doubt that the impact on the Estonian economy, including tax receipts, will be very positive. It is not possible for me to throw out some kind of bill here at the moment, and it would be speculative anyway, but it is certainly a very positive effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U101	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U102	Thank you. Good minister! You said in your answer, the Department of Defense is changing the rules on the move. My question is, what rules do you think he has changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U103	Thank you. As we know, the Ministry of Defence coordinated the so-called mixing range of Aidu wind farm against the Kellavere radar, and this coordination was based on how many percent of the radar's field of view could hinder the windshields were drawn out sectors that reached both height and width. Later, after coordination was given and after further progress in construction, it was decided to reduce this so-called mixing area. To date, two windmills have been set up and they have received a new independent assessment of the range of mixing ordered from outside Estonia. This assessment has shown that their mixing range is significantly below the possible mixing range provided by the Ministry of Defence. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Defence has decided that such interference is not appropriate for them. This behaviour is not correct for any economic operator by the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U104	Thank you. No further questions to the addressee. Thank you, Minister. Is there a wish to negotiate with the speaker? There is no wish for negotiation. This inquiry is therefore pending.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U105	And now we come to the next question, which is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kalvi Tuld, Ivari Padari, Heljo Pikhofi, Jaak Juske, Helmen Küti, Riina Sikkut, Katri Raigi, Lauri Läänemetsa and Indrek Saare on 11 December 2019 (No 17). As the representative of the heirs, I would like to ask Evgeny Ossinovsky to speak here. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! This inquiry was indeed made on 11 December, when, on the initiative of certain Members, a relatively scandalous attempt was made to push through, I would say the roll-out of the drugstore reform, which is no longer the case today. And frankly, we had the idea of taking back this question, because what we are still asking the Prime Minister about this bill seems to be clear. The Prime Minister has also said that we need to move on and work to ensure that pharmacies continue to work on 1 April. But then, as usual, the father and the son began to talk, and this time at once. Beads. It turns out that, in fact, these issues are still topical. Indeed, this draft does not suit them, and they are not expected to support this situation and, despite what the social policy spokesman in the Government of the Republic thinks, radical steps must be taken here. I'm sure we'll be waiting for this bill to be issued by the EKRE this week. However, in the current context, it is also appropriate to know the Prime Minister's opinion on what is happening and what will happen. The prepared questions that we have here are really very much central to this draft, which failed in December. Although I would be very surprised if we did not meet the most important components of this December draft in the EKRE draft. But since they happen to be relatively warmly supported outside this hall by a couple of legal entities and their owners, perhaps we are less interested in what Jüri Ratas has to say about the past that we asked about in our inquiry, but we would like to know what Mr. Prime Minister thinks about today's situation on the pharmaceutical market. How does he feel about this law that should apply from April 1st? And how does the head of the Government of the Republic view the time between January 27 and April 1? We ask this because not only the honourable members of the Riigikogu but also the people of Estonia and, of course, the natural and legal persons involved in this market would have some idea of what will happen in the coming months. Interests are generally clear to everyone, mapped out, and it is now necessary to decide on the way forward. Unfortunately, this has not yet been clearly seen in the activities of the Government of the Republic, there has been a sinking from one side of the road to another. But we are very optimistic that the Prime Minister will help us out of our perplexity.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U107	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U108	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Very respected heirs! Thank you very much for this very serious and interesting questioning! Indeed, this has been submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group on 11 December 2019 and is an inquiry into pharmaceutical policy. I thank you for your questioning! This was driven by the draft law amending the Medicines Act, initiated on 10 December 2019 by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa. Now, to a more precise question. The first question: 'The State Audit Office concluded in the 2012 report that the lack of substantive competition between wholesalers of medicinal products does not ensure an optimal price for patients. The provisions enter into force on 1 April 2020 introduce a ban on vertical integration, opening up the wholesale market to actual competition, as retail pharmacies that are independent of wholesale distribution can choose a wholesaler. The actual competition will lead to a fall in the price of medicines, as confirmed by the fact that hospital pharmacies are already receiving medicines significantly more favourable than retail pharmacies from wholesale distribution. Does the draft 118 initiated by the Riigikogu lower the price of medicines? ' The Estonian pharmaceutical market is characterised by high market concentration. The Estonian wholesale market for medicinal products is concentrated in two or three large wholesalers and the wholesale and retail levels are vertically linked. This results in the wholesaler's major market power and influence, which is why the competitive situation on the pharmaceutical market is not what it should be or could be. This means that in Estonia, wholesalers who control pharmacies who are related to them have great power to impose conditions on pharmaceutical manufacturers wishing to enter the market. This, in turn, affects the choice of medicines and the evolution of prices. Stronger competition between wholesalers would help to create greater clarity and transparency. As we know, 118 lifespans in this Parliament were not very long, as the Riigikogu rejected the draft at first reading, i.e. on 17 December 2019. So today we are talking about a draft that has fallen out of the procedure at this point. The main argument for this draft was that pharmacies would not close their doors and that access to medicines would be guaranteed at least today. The Riigikogu's vote showed that the arguments against were, in the majority's view, stronger, including the claim that the draft 118 would have lowered the price of medicines. The second question: 'Purchases by pensioners account for a very large part of the turnover of the pharmaceutical market. Do you consider it fair that the relative livelihood of the Estonian elderly is one of the poorest in Europe, but by acting in the interests of businessmen, you are forcing them to pay excessive prices for their medicines? ' I agree that it is very important to keep the cost of medicines under control, as the amount spent on medicines will only increase over time. Regulating the prices of medicinal products and compensating patients for the price of medicinal products are necessary to ensure the financial availability of medicinal products. When we are talking about price policy development between wholesale and retailers, it is regulated by the Government of the Republic's regulation on wholesale and retail mark-up limits for medicinal products. In order to reduce the costs for people with high medical costs, we have put in place an additional medical benefit system. From 2018, people with high medical costs will receive an additional automatic benefit from the Health Insurance Fund. The aim of the whole reform of the supplementary medical benefit was precisely to reduce the number of persons with a very high level of self-participation. For example, in 2018, more than 134000 people received their prescription medications significantly more favourably thanks to the additional medical benefits. The number of people who previously paid more than 300 euros from their own pockets for preferential medicines decreased from about 15000 to about 120 thanks to the additional benefit. This resulted in an additional medical benefit of EUR 10.3 million for 1,34316 people in 2018. 10.3 million euros! The average share of patients per prescription was 6.31 euros in 2018, which was 8% lower than in 2017. In order to ensure stable marketing of medicinal products, avoid price increases and protect patients from excessive costs of medicinal products, a system of price caps on medicinal products is also implemented, price agreements are concluded, and there is a requirement to recommend a cheaper medicinal product with the same active substance to the patient. But we also know that there are aspects in the pricing of medicines that need to be significantly improved in the future in terms of transparency and clarity. The fact that the state is not sufficiently able to control the transparency of the purchase prices of medicines at the moment has been pointed out by both the Minister of Social Affairs and the Competition Authority, so new steps need to be taken in the future to control the prices of medicines. The third question: 'You, as Prime Minister, have approved the draft in the presidency of 118 coalitions. Based on what expertise have you rejected the Ministry of Social Affairs' view of the optimal organisation of the pharmaceutical market for the patient? ' In order to streamline the reform of the pharmacy, the Minister for Social Affairs has already presented his proposals at the end of last year. These concern the gradual transfer, the possibility of a division of pharmacist property between several pharmacists and, exceptionally, the granting of the right to retail medicinal products to hospital pharmacists, subject to the authorisation of the Agency. I also consider it important that our patients are protected and that there are as few problems as possible with access to medicines. The three important steps that the Minister of Social Affairs has just taken are as follows: First of all, the Minister of Social Affairs has met with the heads of all four pharmacy chains and their related wholesalers to learn more about their plans to bring their pharmacies into compliance with the requirements of the law. Secondly, it is possible to analyse on the basis of meetings which regions should be given the most attention, so that there are no significant interruptions in the pharmacy service. Three. Currently, in 38 regions, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Agency are working with pharmacists to develop suitable solutions. Local authorities will also be involved in the process in order to find solutions that are suitable for a particular region. Question 4: 'According to Bill 118, you will secure the market position of today's pharmaceutical wholesalers, for which they have reason to rejoice. Please explain how draft 118 will contribute to "the well-being and future of the Estonian people"? ' When I answered the other side of the question, I pointed out on several occasions that the 118 draft law did not find support in this Chamber. Looking back a little bit, the topic underlying the reform of the pharmacy has been discussed by different Riigikogu configurations. For example, in order to prevent pharmaceutical wholesalers from having retail pharmacies, the Riigikogu was already discussed in 2004. At the time, the Competition Authority took the view that the right of wholesalers to own pharmacies would worsen the competitive situation, therefore the Competition Authority very clearly supported the principle that the entire chain of treatment of medicinal products should be independent of each other in order to avoid possible abuses in the market for medicinal products as essential goods. The National Audit Office has also proposed in the 2002 control report that the Minister of Social Affairs may consider the need and the possibility of denying one person, directly or indirectly, control of both companies authorised for the wholesale and retail trade of medicinal products at the same time. The legislative changes initiated by the pharmacy reform were adopted by the Riigikogu in 2014 and 2015. Issues related to the reform of the pharmacy have been further discussed both in the previous and today's Riigikogu. Thank you very much. That is the answer to your four questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U109	Thank you. Prime Minister, there are questions for you. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U110	Thank you. This gradual transition, which you have been talking about here, was also discussed this morning by the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik, in Vikerraadio. My question is this: has Social Minister Tanel Kiik come to the government with this draft gradual transition, which he talks about all the time? And the second question: why are your government's Minister of the Interior and Finance dealing with the amendments to the pharmaceutical law? In this connection, I would also like to ask whether you also have some sort of organisation in the government that deals with what, or whether everyone is taking the subject that they want. And thirdly, are you going to replace Tanel Kiig because he's not suitable for EKRE as a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U111	Thank you for these very specific questions. Question one. Tanel Kiige's proposals we have discussed with the members of the government, point one. Point two, you asked if the government had a firm working order. The answer is that we have a firm working arrangement, how the government works and who is responsible for what. But we also have a strong principle that the government makes its decisions in a consensual manner. Consensually! I really do hear whispering here, but I'm really sorry that I just overheard the whispering between the two members of the Riigikogu, but it really helped me. Yeah, it's right that word is free in the government. I have never seen the Prime Minister tell some members of the government that you must not be involved in this area because you are responsible for another area. There's no such thing! And I don't think there has been one either. Of course, I have not been in many previous governments. Third, you asked me if I was planning to replace Tanel Swing. The answer is no plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U112	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U113	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You said that you had discussed the transitional provisions proposed by the Minister of Social Affairs with members of the government. My question is this: has the Ministry of Social Affairs officially sent these proposals to the House of Stenbock, for example, for discussion at the Cabinet meeting, and, if the Ministry of Social Affairs has done so, has the government discussed these proposals at cabinet level?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U114	Thank you. We have certainly discussed the proposals put forward by the Minister of Social Affairs at the level of the cabinet meeting. For example, the proposal on hospital pharmacies in particular has been specifically discussed. Now that you are talking about the transition, the gradual transition, as I said, the various members of the Government of the Republic have discussed it repeatedly. You want to know if we've officially discussed this at the cabinet meeting. It is not yet ripe for the meeting of the Cabinet at the moment of the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U115	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U116	Thank you. My question, too, relates to Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige. I don't remember that kind of practice. Is there really a plan to undermine Tanel Swing's underfoot? How is it possible for the Minister for Rural Affairs to come out with a breeding law and another member of the government comes along and says, "Hey, I know a lot more about raising bulls, I come up with this initiative instead?" How is it possible that these things are not discussed in the office, as is customary, but that a fair has been created on such an important subject as today's pharmaceutical reform? That's the kind of fair that's been created.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U117	Thank you. I was thinking here that, for example, if I had the chance to be the Minister for Rural Affairs and you were, I don't know, for example, the Minister for Culture, and then I would come up with this particular rural issue. I'm sorry, Mr. Padar, but I certainly think you have much more knowledge of this particular draft than I would if I was just starting a ministerial career. It's worth listening to. I don't think listening's bad at all. Now, at government level, is there anything extraordinary here? It is the case that any member of the government may speak on a variety of subjects, including those that are not under the authority of his ministry. And I think that's it. In my opinion, this is the best consensual solution in this debate. This was the case in the previous government, we had very interesting and active debaters, so it is in this government, and it will certainly be in the next governments. Now, I don't understand what kind of fair you're talking about. The rhythm of work is different, the handwritings of the various prime ministers are different, and such professional meetings are still being held. As I understand it, you want everything to be just office meetings. I don't want to wait every Thursday. I will do much more actively and much more often to hold consultations on different topics to find out where the issues are and to find consensus. So that's how it works in today's government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U118	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U119	Thanks! Good George! Here's my question. As we know, the EKRE Group has said that they cannot tolerate this situation, that so many pharmacies will be shut down, and they will come up on behalf of the Group with their draft. My question is that Tanel didn't pick up the phone today, I would have recommended to him that you go through the government and go after those Tanel proposals. Come and do them with the group, turn in the draft, and Tõnis Mölder, the chairman of your committee, will deal with them and the matter will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U120	Thank you. I think that there is nothing as important as availability for pharmacies, a price component and certainly quality requirements, and nothing can be discussed here. I took out data after interest, I don't know, even since 2004 about how many social ministers have tried to solve this issue in one direction or another. For example, with regard to the background to pharmaceutical policy, I myself told you in this question that some of the proposals came as early as 2004, for example, that was the opinion of the Competition Authority. The National Audit Office 2002 was not able to look that far. But let's take an example from the end of 2012: Minister of Social Affairs in Taavi Rõivas Andrus Ansip, then Minister of Health and Labour in Urmas Kruuse in Taavi Rõivas' government, Minister of Health and Labour in Rannar Vassilyev in Taavi Rõivas' government, then Jevgeni Ossinovski in Taavi Rõivas' government, then Jevgeni Ossinovski, we had a great time together, and then Riina Sikkut was also doing it together. So many have dealt with it. What the fuck! Where these things can be done! Can't do it! You'll see where we've come from with this hoo-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. I understand, Mr Hardy, that you want to come to my aid and organise the work of the Social Democratic Party Group on the one hand, on the other hand, the work of the Central Party Group, some of the work of the Minister of Social Affairs, and also the work of the EKRE, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. Given your ability, I think, it is not impossible at all, but I do think that each group does its own work. Of course, the Riigikogu has signaled that this reform will not be reversed, but I mean 1 April 2020. However, I believe that in fact everyone in this Chamber will understand, perhaps 'all' is wrong to say, but the majority will understand that, in any case, we still need certain changes when we talk about availability. After all, today, the Ministry of Social Affairs says that when you take a settlement-based calculation, 30 settlements, or even a little more, are currently facing very serious problems. Whether the pharmacy stays or not, it's being dealt with today. It must also be based on what is political reality. I understand that the ideological idea of the Social Democratic Party is that we are making a gradual transition. Having a little sense of political reality itself, it is very difficult to say whether it can find support in this Chamber or not. I think that, in today's situation, it is said that, if the House has already decided once that we will not change anything, then we must wait for 1 April. However, this does not mean that the Minister for Social Affairs and his field should not work to ensure that accessibility is guaranteed as well as possible today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U121	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U122	Thank you. I'm gonna keep doing what you just said. So, what's to expect? What should the various parties take into account in this context? There's all kinds of signals right now. Looked like they were going to end in December, but now it's the end of January, and one of the government departments still says they don't know what's going to happen. Basically, it says, "I don't know what's gonna happen," so we're gonna have to try to reverse it. At the same time, however, in order not to close pharmacies on 1 April, it is necessary that market participants take some steps. Now, you said the December vote was a serious step or a signal, etc. But what happens now? I understand that there are different positions in the government, there is no common position. What you said was whether I interpret it correctly when I say that basically it is a question of how to solve this accessibility problem in 30 settlements...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U123	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U124	... and in some other places, but that the general and fundamental frame will not be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U125	Thank you. I get it, good Evgeny, you know what you're asking. Yes, the Minister of Social Affairs will certainly work with people in his field today in this faith and in the knowledge that this reform will enter into force on 1 April 2020. I guess you're busy going to the Agency's online card to see what's going on. A few weeks ago, there were two pharmacies in Hiiumaa, I don't know, zero or one pharmacy, now a few days ago. How's today, I haven't looked. Well, everyone's looking at an Estonian picture, especially you, Evgeni 'you've been working in this field and you feel, I think, worried about how availability will be on April 1st. That's what Tanel and his team are really working for. Now, the other half of your question is political. The question is whether I will give three drops of blood in this Riigikogu speech chair, so that this law will not under any circumstances be amended in the Riigikogu Hall. Well, that's practically impossible. Whether the coalition as a whole would restart the reversal of this reform, I think there is no such political consensus in the coalition today. They tried to do this, but it was not supported by the House. And I think it makes sense to take this subject down for less than two and a half months. Do you know very well that each political group has the right to initiate draft laws, even every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U126	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U127	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Can you imagine that a private company that wants to operate effectively, for example, in a construction company, says that we're gonna take away a pair of beams from here, is more beautiful? There'll be an administrative manager and he'll tell me to take the posts off, so it'll be easier to clean up. If we want to move into that building at a pharmacy or hospital later, do we really dare to send patients to that building? Why would this happen differently at government level? Why do people such as Mart Helme, who admitted last week's Question Time that they are not in the working group on this pharmacy reform, and they do not know the nuances, the background and the links, but they promise in the media that EKRE will come up with a new draft? How can the government be effectively managed in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U128	Thank you, good Riina! You asked, didn't you, a very strong political question. And actually, my previous response was also political, when I read up very good people: Mr Rõivas, Mr Kruuse, Mr Vassilyev, Mr Ossinovski and good Riina, you, who all have dealt with one, two or three, well, I don't know, direction or principle, that if this reform took effect on 1 April 2020, it would have been postponed, wouldn't it, for a long time, with the decisions of 2014 and 2015, to be transferred to the required ownership form, to the pharmacist form. Today we actually see that it has not worked, most pharmacies are not owned by pharmacists. And it cannot be said that only the Ministry of Social Affairs will have substantive arguments, and others, I do not know, political groups and politicians cannot say anything. I think you should say, and I think the approaches are, good Riina, very different. I think that today there are those in the Riigikogu Chamber who say that there is a completely wrong course and that there should be a direction for even greater liberalisation of certain medicines to be taken, I do not know, to grocery shops, gas stations, etc., so we will increase access, so we will improve competition, so we will reduce prices. I do not think that we must say anything and that the political groups or members of the Riigikogu must not make any substantive contributions. On the contrary, I think we should have a say. To put the flaps on both the eyes and the ears and everyone else in front and to say that it is only as the Ministry of Social Affairs says that I think it is not the right approach. We actually see that this is not some single issue that has arisen in the last month-two-three. We can see in the paper wells that this topic has been on the table for at least 18 years, one way or the other. And there have been very different opinions. In this sense, I fully agree with Mr Evgen when he introduced this question to him that these interests, these interest groups, are very large, very different, and I am not only referring to the interests of business interest groups, but also to the interests of a particular individual. Many say today that the pharmaceutical market, their availability, is very well solved. There are pharmacies everywhere, you don't have to stand in line, there are medicines. But there are certainly those who say yes, it is true that there are many pharmacies and there are no queues, but the prices of medicines are very high. Today, we do not have any concrete analysis that the implementation or roll-back of this reform on 1 April actually has an impact on price policy and whether we can bring prices down. One side claims one, the other side claims the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U129	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U130	Thank you very much. Good President! Mr. Prime Minister! I asked you, on the previous point, whether you are suggesting that other companies move to this grey area by paying their taxes, and you have, as you have said, that this area is only 4%. However, 4% of last year's 1.3-billion-dollar social tax received EUR 133 million and could have increased the pension of 304000 pensioners by EUR 36 per month. In this sense, 4% is not a small amount. But my question to you is this: how many social ministers are in the government now and when will the Riigikogu come up with proposals on how to find a solution to the reform of the pharmacy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U131	Yes, thank you. First, point 1. I don't know why you're comparing and, as I heard, Mrs Riina Sikkut also compares this government to a company or to a company management. I've had the opportunity to run a business and the opportunity to run a government, these are two completely different things. Two completely different things! I'm telling you the truth, I don't think the government can ever be run like one great AS, OÜ or international corporation. You can't do that. The government has other dimensions that are important. I don't understand why you're making such a comparison. Now, you want to come back to my last question. I am afraid that the President of the Riigikogu will intervene and say that I must remain within the limits of the current questioning. I certainly didn't tell you it was only 4%. I said that the payment of the envelope salary as a percentage of employees was 6% in 2018, 13% in 2017 and 8% in 2016 according to the Institute of Economics. I brought you these numbers, based on the evidence from the Conjuncture Institute. It is true that, by reducing the tax hole, we can do a lot of good things, I agree with you on that. I think we all need to work towards this. Now, to answer your question: how many social ministers do we have, it is true, in that sense, that it is true that there were years when there were two ministers in the Ministry of Social Affairs, one in the field of health and work, the other was the Minister of Social Protection. They did some very interesting things together to take their field forward and sometimes to carry on other things. Now it's been converted, now there's another minister. I remember once that Jaak Aab was there alone minister, now Tanel Kiik Minister. The other part of your question is that when will a concrete solution be reached, so that this problem can be solved, you can say that there is a solution. The majority of the Riigikogu said, including very many members of the Reform Party Group, a very strong majority said that there was no need to reverse the reform. The reform must be put into effect on 1 April 2020 by introducing a requirement for pharmacist property. So right now, that's what we can work on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U132	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, next question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U133	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! Tanel Kiik has made a very good impression on me as Minister of Social Affairs. He has very quickly brought himself up to speed with all the complex areas and he is remarkably competent. 1 April is very close and we know that today the Riigikogu has chosen that the reform should enter into force in this form. Tanel Kiik has on several occasions offered different solutions in front of the public to mitigate the possible closure of pharmacies on 1 April. And today we hear here that the Government of the Republic has not formally discussed these proposals. What happens if, in at least one of the 34 regions, God would grant that no more than a mile from the pharmacy service is no longer available from 1 April? Will the government take political responsibility for this situation? And why is such a scenario not prevented and Tanel Kiigel is not allowed to formally introduce these provisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U134	Thank you. I'd say it's the highest political pilotage you've now put into question. As far as Tanel Kiige is concerned, I fully agree with you, these good words apply to him entirely. I've had a chance, I think, to know him for quite a while, so in that sense I share your opinion. Now, I will say once again that I have not been in the government for very long, but we have a lot of forms of work, not just office meetings that take place every Thursday and where there is substantive advice on various issues. Sometimes even in the late hours of the night, if necessary, or in the early hours of the morning, have been consulted. This government has also consulted on this subject at various meetings. You ask what happens when, I don't know, in one of the settlements, the availability of the pharmacy service disappears. Forgive me, but it has been the desire of the majority in this hall to complete the reform as it is on the table today. The three groups wanted this reform to be reversed in terms of ownership, so that owners should not only be pharmacists, but should be all owners. This proposal was not supported in this Chamber. That's what they tried in December. Some say that this bill was crazy and bad and bad, but the three groups thought it was pretty good. As I said in reply to the question, the arguments that this reform must not be reversed today remained. So today it is possible to work according to what the Riigikogu has decided to implement this reform on 1 April 2020. It is clear that today everything is hypothetical, but if you work with the information shown by the Agency, as of today, very many pharmacies do not respond to the form required on 1 April. There is some information that many large pharmacies have found the possibility that, if this reform takes place in its current form, there is still a chance that they can continue to be open, they will have certain agreements. I don't know if that's true. I don't know what to say. But the three groups said that this was a problem when so many pharmacies were shut down. The majority of the Riigikogu saw a different solution. And now the only possibility is that the Ministry of Social Affairs, in particular the Minister and his office, must make every effort to ensure that the service is accessible to the greatest possible extent. It has indeed been valued on a periphery basis. As of this morning, it can be said that at least 30 settlements presently have a problem that on 1 April the pharmacy may no longer be there. That's what we have to work for. It must be based on what the majority of the Riigikogu said. I do not think that we should list by name all the members of the Riigikogu who said that we should not reverse the reform. I don't think it's going anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U135	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U136	Thank you. Prime Minister! In your last reply, you were not at all precise as to how softly to put it, because the three groups did not want to reverse. If the three groups had wanted what you referred to, today would be a very different situation. The faction of the Centre Party thought so and so. The EKRE and the Isamaa Group thought that this reform should be reversed, but the Centre Party Group thought so and so, and here we are today. Nine months ago, the government took office, and as an expert on this matter, the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik, received responsibility, in particular, who has told the government what he thinks. He's been saying that in public all along. Nevertheless, the coalition has made every effort to create considerable confusion. And the confusion continues, it is still not over, because one of the coalition's parties says two months before the reform comes into force that something else should still be done. Does it not seem to you that the biggest enemy of the current government and, through it, of everything concerning the Estonian pharmaceutical market and pharmacies is actually today's government itself, who, instead of taking a stand and taking action, has been dragging this process for nine months and we do not see it coming to an end?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U137	Thank you, good Indrek! I do not know who is most responsible for this reform, whether it is the Reform Party, the Social Democratic Party or the Centre Party. But all the parties I have mentioned have fulfilled the responsibilities of this minister and this area. So I'm afraid it's a pretty slippery road to start pointing fingers at who's to blame. Now, my sense is this, a good questioner, that no party in this hall says quite so, well, nothing needs to be done, everything is done. In fact, everyone will see that we must make an effort before 1 April. Only this direction, which requires effort, or rather this path, is quite different from one private to another. Who see the need to turn back, who see the need to make a step-by-step transition, and that is a very big problem. Putting all responsibility here on today's coalition alone is, in my opinion, not right at all. Yes, from the outset, the Centre Party said that, as far as reversal is concerned, we certainly have them, just like all the other votes, who do not support this proposal, and there are those who support it. Most felt that the reform had to be reversed, and if I am not mistaken, there were probably seven Members of Parliament who thought that the reform should not be reversed. This is the real picture. What are we gonna do about it today? To point a finger at someone? It is clear that it is always responsible for who is in the government at that moment, who is in the coalition at that moment and who is the Prime Minister at that moment. That's it. Today, as I said, and you, Indrek, know this very well, must work within the limits of the opportunities we have in such a coalition and political reality. And today, I think, in order not to reverse the reform, everything must be done to keep the pharmacies open and preserved in as many settlements as possible. I don't think your party has done anything to make this transition smooth and perfect. You are also responsible for this reform and have been responsible for it for many years.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U138	Jaak Juske!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! One of the parties to your government coalition's EKRE has quite openly said that they do not like the policy pursued by Minister Tanel Kiige; he organises all sorts of dubious campaigns. Suppose, at the beginning of April, in a settlement where the pharmacy has been so far, it is no longer there. This gives EKRE an excellent opportunity to say that Tanel Kiik cannot do the job and should leave the ministerial seat. What will you do if the EKRE comes to you and says that the cost of maintaining this coalition is the dismissal of Minister Kiige?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U140	Thank you, Mr. Juske. It's such a lovely question that 'if that happens' and then comes ten more times 'if'. I say what I said to a good fellow official here earlier: Tanel is a good minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U141	No further questions to the addressee of the enquiry. Thank you, Prime Minister. Now we have the opportunity to open negotiations. Jevgeni Ossinovski has expressed the wish for negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U142	Thank you. I'd like three more minutes right now. I don't know if I'm gonna use it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U143	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U144	Thank you! First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for his answers. I would widen one topic because it went through the Prime Minister's reply and there is also a great point of discussion among pharmaceutical wholesalers: see what you are saying here, that prices are high in Estonia, the state has set these mark-up percentages and therefore prices are under control. Prime Minister Ratas also referred to this, namely one of the regulations of the Government of the Republic, in which the percentage limits for mark-up are indeed fixed by price group. And it really seems that through it, the state has taken control, doesn't it? But then we'll take out a paper like the 'Analysis of weighted average mark-ups in wholesale and retail pharmaceuticals' prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs. According to the Pharmaceutical Act, wholesalers once a year present an overview of their average mark-ups that the mark-up is so-called "real'. Retailers do it too. And then the Ministry of Social Affairs will run the analysis. Performs fine analyses and fine graphs, but says: "The pharmaceutical law or its sub-acts do not define a 'buy-in price' or a 'package' to which an entrepreneur may add a mark-up [---]. Moreover, no authority is authorised to monitor the accuracy of wholesale purchase data. Therefore, there is no certainty about the quality of the data underlying the analysis. ' That's what the Ministry of Social Affairs says. The Competition Authority has said even more clearly that in principle, it is absolutely no matter what percentage mark-ups are imposed by law if we are not in fact able to monitor what these percentages are to be calculated on. And what is to be calculated in terms of percentages is the wholesale purchase price, i.e. the CIP, and it is true that the purchase price declared to the State has very little to do with reality. I have also mentioned this the last time Social Minister Kiik spoke here about the reported purchase prices of a couple of medicines. Looking at this table, there is an interesting picture: all wholesalers have exactly the same prices, the same prices per cent. For example, paracetamol, which reaches the pharmacy of the North Estonian Regional Hospital with one euro, reaches wholesale in four euros. Four euros will reach wholesale, but one euro will move on to North Estonia Regional Hospital. And then you think about how it can be that you buy with four and sell with one. Doesn't make any sense. While they always stress that they are very altruistic companies, there are no profits in the pharmaceutical sector at all, only losses and problems. But the fact that they immediately quadruple the losses of selling these drugs doesn't seem very logical. But then it turns out that a gentleman whose name does not come to my mind, a representative of Tamro, has given the ERR a remarkable interview in which he says that no one understands anything and that it is a very precise business. He says, of course, that the wholesaler offers hospitals a discount that no one shows to the health insurance fund, and 'at the end of the month, the manufacturer reports the discounts made for each transaction, which the manufacturer will compensate the trader afterwards'. It's a direct quote. This means that the prices that are presented to the State and on which these mark-up percentages are going to rise have nothing to do with reality. This is the situation that the country has created today with its inaction. And it is true, as the Prime Minister mentioned, that such inaction has been going on for quite a long time. The state has allowed itself to be kept in this situation. On 1 April 2020, for the first time in a very, very long time, as Mr Prime Minister said, the moment when the legislator is bringing about a real change in this market, a real change that is huge and actually has a wide-ranging effect. It has such an effect that, in fact, there could eventually be competition on the wholesale market, which is not there today because the wholesaler agrees with the producer not on what price he sells and how much he sells he buys himself a wholesale warehouse of medicinal products, but on how much he actually agrees to sell them out of his own pharmacy and under what conditions. Most of this agreement is not known to the public in any way, but we know very well from non-public sources how it actually works, not taking into account the interests of the patient and creating excessive profits. Finally, a decision was taken many years ago, and now the moment of implementation has come. Of course, it is clear that this decision does not like businessmen. No doubt! And undoubtedly, very active work has been done to reverse this law. This work has been done for years. This work has been done, I believe, during all the social and health ministers appointed by the Prime Minister, but I cannot confirm it to the end. However, I can assure you that this was also the case when I was a minister. So far, the social ministers have been able to stand firm that the first serious change in this market will finally take place in order to boost competition. The fact that from time to time certain individuals jump out of another proposal to turn the matter around is from one group, from another group and from a third group is not surprising in itself. No one is underestimating the strength of lobby in this area worldwide. It is like the United States, where the two most powerful lobbies are weapons and medicines, with weapons lost at least one vote in Congress, but no drugs. And, of course, when this loss occurred in the Riigikogu in December, the rage was so great that the pharmacies had to be shut down the next day. But no problem, the next person was found willing to stand up for the interests of businessmen in Parliament. In my opinion, this is a very historic moment, the moment when the state can show that it is not a hostage in the pocket of individual businessmen who can be extorted in one way or the other. The trials will continue, but I hope that this hall as a whole will have the strength and backbone to stand up for the business interests of patients, not of individual businessmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U145	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Would the Prime Minister still like to make a final statement? No, I don't. Then we'll have this inquiry dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U146	Now we come to the most important point of today, and it's a free microphone. Everyone will be able to come up here and speak in a free microphone after my powerful hammer strike. Please, Mr. Grünthal! Five minutes without extension.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U147	Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks for getting the floor on the free microphone! But why did I come to the speaker's desk? The reason is that a few days ago, Estonia's television channels and major daily newspapers reflected the news that you definitely missed. Convinced that this was certainly the case, let me read it to you now. On 23 January the kings, presidents and other high officials of nearly 50 Heads of State attended the 5th World Holocaust Memorial Day Forum at the Yad Vashem Memorial Center in Jerusalem. It celebrated the 75th anniversary of the release of the Auschwitz concentration camp, and it is also considered to be one of the greatest diplomatic gatherings in Israel's history. The International Holocaust Memorial Day has been a global celebration since 27 January 2006 for the Jews who were mass murdered in World War II. The International Day of Remembrance for the Victims of the Holocaust is also set out in Resolution 60/7 adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 1 November 2005. Unfortunately, the Estonian President did not participate in the event, who decided to ignore the invitation sent to him early from Israel and thought it best to go to Antarctica to learn about the pingin life. It is very regrettable that with this advantage of tourism, Estonia has sent a message to the world that we do not care about the execution of 6 million Jews by Nazi Germany in World War II. Unfortunately, the damage to Estonia's reputation is irreparable. Ladies and gentlemen, You may not be looking for this news on your smartphones because it's not there. I find it a little incomprehensible, which is why the Estonian press did not consider the Holocaust's memorial event to be important. This took place in Jerusalem and was attended by the President of our neighbouring country, Vladimir Putin, who made symbolic meanings there and took certain political decisions. Why was it avoided? I don't know. Is it because the Estonian press somehow tried to minimize the President's choice? I don't know. In connection with this, I would like to ask you, good journalists, who always look to the politicians of the Estonian Conservative People's Party for the smallest seeds to blow up the reputational damage caused to Estonia in every possible and impossible way: did the President of Estonia cause reputational damage to Estonia by not going to the Holocaust Memorial Day Forum and why did the press not reflect the Holocaust Memorial Day and events in Jerusalem? In the case of damage on land, I mean that there was also a fascist death camp here in Klooga on the territory of Estonia, where over 2 000 imprisoned Jews were destroyed. I think it's very signicant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U148	Thank you. Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U149	I would ask you this: why did the Prime Minister or the Honorable President of the Riigikogu not go there instead of Kaljulaid? I know why Henn Põlluaas didn't go because there was an exhibition, but because there must not be three people who run the country at once, because who would then declare martial law if anything happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-27_U150	Thank you. There is no more free microphone request. Our trial today is over. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 5.45 p.m.
