ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 18th working week of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? There's no need to surrender. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 76 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 25.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U2	Now, my fellow Members, pay attention. Clarification of the agenda. Since during yesterday's working day we were unable to finish the items on our agenda and midnight arrived before we had exhausted our agenda, our debate was still pending at Question No 35 where the Prime Minister answered the questions of the members of the Riigikogu. That's where we're going today. So I ask the Prime Minister of the Chair, Jüri Ratas, to answer the questions. Liina Kersna had registered to ask the question. Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U3	Thank you, President of the sitting. Prime Minister! At the beginning of your speech, you clearly underestimated the importance of collecting reserves. On Thursday last week, we had a representative of Eesti Pank, a representative of the fiscal council and representatives of entrepreneurs in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. In good times, all of them stressed the importance of collecting reserves and criticized your government's decisions. Several colleagues here asked you to formulate lessons. Could one lesson be that when we have good times, the government attaches importance to the collection of reserves?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U4	Thank you. First of all, good morning. Thank you so much for this opportunity! Now this new regime will allow us to move forward today. I guess morning is smarter than evening, even in the case of questioning. But I didn't disparage the collection of reserves in any way, certainly not. Indeed, I said so, and I quote that it is important to take into account the fiscal economy on the world market when collecting reserves and/or borrowing. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Why did I say that hindsight was such an exact science? At the moment, we can say that, in the current situation, it could be better for Estonia to finance expenditure by means of a loan rather than by collecting reserves. But it's in today's situation, tomorrow maybe a new situation, and definitely the number of x days ago was a completely different situation. We must be prepared and able to discuss it, as I said, not to repeat dogmas all the time. It was my idea. Indeed, I also pointed out that if we take the years 2017 to 2019 but once again, this is also a hindsight, for example, Estonia's liquidity and the profitability of the stabilisation reserve were negative. We can say that we have lost nearly EUR 5.2 million of large money in holding reserves. So it can't be said that in any case one or the other solution is correct. As I said, yes, we have to look at this fiscal economy on the world market. But this, too, is in some ways a hindsight. So, on the one hand, reserves and, on the other hand, debt are always linked. I think that maintaining a balance between them is probably the most sensible ♪ certainly the state must have reserves and there must certainly be a very responsible debt burden as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U5	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I also have a question of asking the same question as regards the monitoring of budgetary expenditure. In your introductory comment, there was one such attitude that I am now not quoting you, but reminding you that holding budget expenditure under control, low loan burden and avoiding over-residence are such dogmatic views. Some times you said the word 'dogmad'. My question, however, is this: which European country has set the greatest example for you in this Prime Minister's career, and perhaps in the past, because you have been in politics for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U7	No, I certainly have not been in politics for a long time, there are people in this Chamber with much more political experience. But I think we still have to look at the budgetary approach at the level of the whole of the European Union. Here we have certainly often taken the same view as Finland, for example. Well, let's say, the choice is either a conservative fiscal policy or, on the contrary, a very strong debt burden on the country. There are countries that are also over 100%. So on this axis, we have been in agreement with Finland and Germany, for example, on many occasions in the European Union Council. So, if you ask me that, I think these have been places where Estonia has had similar interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U8	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U9	Thank you. Good waitress! You mentioned here just before that it depends on when and how the expenditure should be financed. You're trying to hide and talk about the fact that during the corona crisis, and consequently the loan has to be taken. In some parts, it's true. But if we look at the last three years of your governments, then nominally, or rolling, you've been spending the whole time in minus, maybe over. Structurally, when we see that the economy has been in a very good time and has grown, you have been in an even greater disadvantage. If one family budget is now simplified to compare, the situation is that both parents have gained more pay during the year, but at the end of the year it is always seen that there is no way to end up with the end of the family budget. How do you justify this behaviour with budgetary discipline and money in the first place, and what example should it set for the people of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U10	Thank you very much, Mr. Keldo. I'm also happy to welcome you this morning. In fact, all the questions that your groupmates asked last night were very good and they also received answers. But, of course, we'll go with you this morning. Well, what did I tell you? I also said this, I gave this example that in 2014 and 2015 the government sector was in structural surplus. And then later, when it was assessed by the Board, this was due, among other things, to the postponement of investments. In fact, I do not think that this is a good practice when investments are postponed. Now you are criticising that there has been good economic growth in recent years and then there has been a budget deficit when we talk in terms of structural balance. Yes, I agree with you that there has been good growth and even very good growth. I have always said that this is mainly due to Estonian entrepreneurs and good working people. Mr Keldo, I said several times yesterday, and it seemed to me that many members of the Reform Party realised that if we took it three and a half years ago, then it was actually necessary to carry out structural reforms that had not yet been completed. There was also a clear direction: there is a need to increase investment. Because it was clear that many investments stood. And I also highlighted in my reply to the questioning very specific points where I believe that progress has been made. I mentioned, for example, raising the income base of local governments, investment in defence, but also investment in education, internal security, whether it be police, teachers or rescue officers. One might ask what you, Mr. Keldo, would have left out of all this. I also took out an OECD assessment which said that this inequality problem was still very topical three and a half years ago. I remember very well how you criticized it then, I do not know now whether you, but your home party, were, and how much was Watt and whistle around raising the tax-free minimum. I understand that Mr. Clothes is disturbing you there, which is none of my business, but I still want to answer you right now. At the time, there was a lot of water and whistle, or debate about whether to raise the tax-free minimum by 10 euros, so that it would give people 2 euros of real results. You will remember well that we have done this tax-free minimum increase to EUR 500. And actually, if you look at it now, you can safely say, as the OECD said, that the reform of the income tax-free minimum reduced inequality and it was a step in the right direction. Those were basically yesterday's answers. I apologize to those with whom we already had a very interesting debate here last night, but it is clear that this morning I am ready to continue and give you answers. The night has been peaceful and good, I've slept well, so let's keep going.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U11	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Very dear Prime Minister! I was concerned by the reply that, using the current financial context, it is reasonable to finance expenditure through a loan. It was worrying that you did not specify whether you meant investments or running costs. In my opinion, it would be criminal to finance running costs through a loan. However, it makes perfect sense to make investments with the help of a loan. And I think that as blessed time to invest as it has been before, there have been as many restrictions as possible on borrowing as it has disappeared. In addition to this, I am very concerned about the reservations about possible additional funding for Rail Baltic. Indeed, we must fight to the last drop of blood so that the financing rate of Estonia is as low as possible, but it should not suffer if it is somewhat higher. Do you also have a big picture of what a billion or one-and-a-half billion is? just how much more money could be used for investment, and what and in what order to invest?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U13	Thank you! Yes, first of all, if we take this loan or, let's say, an increase in the debt burden, there are alternatives to these fiscal measures. One thing is borrowing, but the other is long-term bonds. That was why last night, in the late hours of the evening, I recognized the Fatherland Party and the Reform Party here. Well, other parties too, but you were immediately mentioned separately, given that you have been in power for a very long time in this century. The Fatherland has been the foundation of a very strong conservative ideology of monetary policy, but certainly the Reform Party has also cooperated and contributed here. But in fact, it has given this opportunity, let us be honest that the long-term bonds that we received are very good ratings for the Estonian state. Very good. We can actually say today, as incredible as it seems, that we are getting a fiscal instrument today where we are actually being paid after, i.e. negative interest. So in any case, these have been steps in the right direction in the various decades of this century, point one. Point two is an ideological approach. And here, even though we're from different political parties, I think we have one approach. Now start financing running expenses by means of a loan or debt, which I don't think is right. Investments still need to be made and investment in Estonia is needed. If you are asking if we have such a larger picture, we have, as I replied to Mr Keldo, a lot of important investments recently gone out of Tallinn. We can take care of Pärnu airport. We need to get it done. If we want more foreign tourists or domestic tourists in Pärnu, I believe you will support them. Although I don't know what your position on this Pärnu airport is, but I think this is the right direction, it needs to be fixed. Now, you brought in Rail Baltic. First of all, this is what we're talking about with Rail Baltic. In your own mind, you will probably first and foremost touch on this great story today about the sule of the honourable journalist Poomi in the Estonian Päevaleht, if I am not mistaken, and the question then is what is part of the co-financing of Rail Baltic Estonia. And you say it's okay if he's more than 15%, either way, a big project, right? I don't know if this is a real century project, but I'm sure it's close. Yes, I have worked quite seriously to make sure that the deficit that exists in the three Baltic states, 1.5 to 2 billion, that is all estimated, because we do not yet have construction procurements in the back, it is true when we are talking about the current MFF. Now there's a reboot. Last Saturday, i.e. last weekend, I also had a talk about Rail Baltic with the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen. I have spoken on this subject several times. In my opinion, this is a very positive step: a) it has been written down in the re-launch plan, b) it has been put on top of additional funding. As you say, you said the last drop of blood, well, I don't know if there is a need for such powerful expressions, of course, work must be done. And work must be done in such a way that it is as good a position as possible for Estonia. Anyway. I promise you, even looking at you here, a honourable member of the Riigikogu, that I will work to maintain and improve the position that is now. But on the one hand, the whole rebooting scheme can be said that there is nothing today. There's just one suggestion. You know this as well as I do that there are actually a lot of countries that say that they do not want to see it in this form at all. So to say today, you see, this is the restarting plan, and this 750 billion is somehow there, can't. The answer is that there isn't at the moment. We're in the middle of a negotiation. Estonia has taken its position here; we are going to negotiations with specific positions. Let's see what comes out of this. I dare not say to you here that an agreement will now be reached on the 19th, which has been published in the press. I don't believe it. Because it's a video rendezvous because of coronavir. What I know is that face-to-face meetings are planned in July. Well, that's when things can get going. Still, there's a need to talk face-to-face, so big plans. If you ask me if such a big plan is ahead of you, of course it is. On this point, I also replied several times yesterday, which are, in fact, the positions that are important to Estonia and which are a big picture within the framework of this relaunch programme. Let's not talk here about whether there's 5 kilometers of bicycle roads or 10 kilometers of power lines. The question is, what's the big picture, right? Internal market, digital investment, green investment, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U14	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U15	Thank you. You commended previous governments for maintaining the state's finances, and you are, of course, right. As a polite person, I'd also like to acknowledge you back, but it's awfully difficult, because the current balance is minus 1.26 billion structural deficits. You are saying that you have made huge investments, but I cannot find in the budgets the huge investments that earlier governments would not have put there by now with the country's budget strategy. I see the postponement of Rail Baltic and the non-use of funds. I see a delay in the eastern border. In defence investments, I see a fall in percentage of GDP, as well as in the R &amp; D activities you mentioned. I'm looking for these new objects, but I can't find them. City Hall, I go to see you every week, you don't come up, you don't come up. It was supposed to start the economy. However, when you took office, you said that the budgetary balance was important. Please tell me what went wrong!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U16	Thank you. To be honest, I am pleased, as I said yesterday, I have said before, and I also said today, 'I sincerely mean it', that all political parties, i.e. the EKRE, the Fatherland, the Reform Party, the Social Democrats and the Centre Party, are standing together for Estonia to do well and for our lives to be better at the end of the day. I do not take a piece off if I recognise the current opposition or previous governments. I'll do it in the future. It's part of my nature. Just because I haven't heard a word or a speck of words from you, I don't really care about it, it's your style, you're right, I accept it. And so it is. Some people want to live the same, others want to live the same. By the way, I mean, yesterday was the opposite. And, look, here I really want to raise the opposition again. Mr. Indrek Saar, Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, who mostly makes very painful criticisms, came here yesterday to the Riigikogu Chair and acknowledged the current coalition. I also had a few people who were outside politics to tell me that it was very respectable what Mr. Saar did. He sees a bit of a wider picture, too. If you ask that you do not see these big investments, then it is clear, Mr Clothes, that you do not want to see them. You do not want to say that they have been made in Estonian society. I was just talking about the reform of the tax-free minimum, and that is, I think, a very strong investment in the people of Estonia. Yeah, by saying in your Excel that it's a running cost or a fixed cost and not an investment, I agree. But this is a very clear investment in the people of Estonia, in the security of those who earn low or average wages. If you say that the investment is not what was made in three years, that the state pays for the health insurance part of old-age pensioners, and I think I am not mistaken when I say that the health insurance fund has received more than EUR 200 million, then what is it? It is an investment in the people of Estonia; it is an investment in the health of Estonian people and their health indicators. I understand you're saying that the investment is just that if we build something out of concrete and then it's finished. But the truth is that these investments have also been made. You're a tough sportsman, you run fast, you do different sports. Take Kääriku and see how long it went down. Now we're going to Kääriku, and there's a decent sports base built there. Defence investments just how much it was said that there was a need to put more defence investments in place. Now one could say that it has become a tradition that the country's budget strategy is postponed by one year, that we will see additional investments in the order of 20 million again. I mean, that criticism doesn't suck. If you take investment in local governments, I think these are all important things. But yes, I deliberately started investing in the people of Estonia, in the health of Estonian people, in public health. I consider all this to be extremely important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U17	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U18	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! Recognition and approval are important for every person. And I am not sorry to congratulate you on what you repeatedly said yesterday, that you are concerned about the well-being of the Estonian people. We're all worried, that's what we're here for. But the question is that there is not too much difference between the family budget in the big picture of the state budget. We can spend as long as we have the resources to do so. For example, when a child is bought candy and at one point when the wallet is empty and no more candy, there will be no recognition or approval. The same is true of the people. If the Treasury is empty, there will be no recognition and approval. Indeed, I understand that your last two governments have wanted to implement their policies that are likely to be different from those of previous governments, and that is costly. Nevertheless, we must remain rational. The question I have is, in fact, that you have repeatedly said what you have done in these two governments. However, the question of the Reform Party is, in fact, what are the decisions you have made to be more sustainable and better controlled. We have a question about that. Maybe you can explain.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U19	Thank you. I think this comparison between the state budget and the family budget is very eloquent, and I am quite in agreement with that. And I think it's a very specific and simple approach in a good way, but of course we can't compare the real state budget and the family budget. When we talk about commitments, the state can certainly bear debt more firmly than one household can do, that is the case. But as I said many times yesterday, I think, to Maris Lauri, the main motive for your inquiry, if I have understood correctly, is, in fact, budget expenditure monitoring. And I also said yesterday that this system definitely needs to be improved, in any case it needs to be corrected, there is no difference of opinion here. Very painfully our monitoring capabilities were knocked out in April 2019, but certainly in the past. It can always be said that expenditure monitoring should be improved and increased cooperation between ministries, in cooperation with the Fiscal Council, be it budget implementation or budget expenditure monitoring. That is what I support in any case, and this is, in my opinion, the right approach. Yes, budget receipts, tax revenues, be they labour taxes or consumption taxes, we are currently monitoring a little more closely and better. True, in 2018 we saw that we were not actually able to monitor everything very well at the end of the year. Information on the structural balance came, as I said, in April 2019. But here I agree with you in any case, and it was also the position of the Fiscal Council, such an indicator or signal that if something bad, for example, is a downfall, it should come much faster, it must be strengthened. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U20	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U21	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! I can assure you that such awkwardness and hoaxing is not an investment. It doesn't increase your dignity, nor does it increase your respect for you. And the investment isn't even if you've tore the minus over a billion in good times, structurally. It has weakened Estonian finances, it has weakened the Estonian economy. This has been said to you repeatedly by Eesti Pank, the Budget Council. And if you are twisting the words 'investment' here, then I would remind you that Estonia has been at the top of Europe all along in terms of public investment and that they have not risen in any way since your arrival, but rather a percentage of GDP has fallen. But my question: is this your understanding of yourself, that you came and started to build Estonia, that nothing had been done before, that you then started to invest, spend and do things that had previously been shamelessly neglected? Did the Republic of Estonia start with you?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U22	Thank you. No, I never thought of it that way. I don't think it would make any sense to do this job anymore. We see that our finances are still on solid foundations, as has actually been acknowledged by the National Audit Office. We see that our international ratings, our credit ratings, still show that Estonia's position is strong. I think it has been very good and important feedback. Now what you asked for as such an ideological question. I think that there has certainly been a huge amount in this Chamber since the last Supreme Council, when we are talking about the time of restoration of independence and a little bit of the period before it, all the Riigikogu and all the governments have given in order for Estonia to move forward. That's a hell of a lot. I don't know, let's just take the time and the moment we're in. I think there are probably those who do not think the UN Security Council has been very important or priority. I think it is a priority that we applied for it, but this is, in my opinion, an example of how the Estonian Riigikogu, Estonian governments and Estonian diplomats have built these walls so that we would never have this momentous application. I think that the mid-1990s, the end and the beginning of the 2000s, when we had a trend towards the European Union and NATO, have certainly been very strong. Mr. Ligi, you were the Minister of Finance yourself when we went to the euro. I think these have all been the right steps. So I have never had any idea, as you described, that Estonia's life began in November 2016. No, that's what I categorically reject. Now, if I may answer Mrs Riisalo once more to the previous questioner, the Ministry of Finance, as far as I know, has also improved the monitoring of the use of state budget funds. For example, the State Support Services Centre now provides information about expenditure by economic content, which is better suited to the structure of the state budget. Monitoring and forecasting processes for border trade have also been substantially improved and have already produced positive results. What else is the plan? As I have emphasised yesterday and today, cooperation with the Fiscal Council should also be stepped up in order to better harness their analytical potential for forecasting models. The government and the State Chancellery receive, as I said, monthly information on revenue receipts and budgetary positions. The cost situation will be reviewed in greater detail, yes, as I said yesterday, twice a year, and it will always be with the spring or summer forecast of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U23	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U24	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In good times and times of crisis, culture, as well as education, is still one of the driving forces for the economy. A good example of the last crisis situation is to take from Germany, which solved the crisis situation for culture, say, giving priority financially to other lines or to other areas. A few questions ago you mentioned that you have made good investments over the last three years. I would be interested in these major investments in culture and education because, as we know, we have not increased the percentage of R &amp; D, as well as the salaries of teachers in education, support services, the wages of cultural workers in the cultural sphere, and there will also be interest in cultural investments and higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U25	Thank you. You guys had a lot of questions here, so I'm gonna get started. I'm not happy either, because the percentage of R &amp; D is not 1. But whether he has risen or at least managed to maintain his level may be disputed. Depends on what time point we're looking at this percentage, but it's more like it or even a gram. You know, if we even raise a little bit, it'll mean several dozen million already. One thing you said, Heidy Purga, I don't agree. That's right, teacher's salary. The minimum wage for teachers has risen, I dare say, certainly over 300 euros. The average wage of teachers has risen considerably over the last three years. This is definitely not the place where I can say that we are satisfied, but I think this rise has been very vigorous. This has certainly been our priority. The wages of highly educated cultural workers have also increased in parallel with the minimum wage of teachers. These have been the dozens of millions invested in it, not spent! And I think this has been the very right approach. So I cannot agree in any way with the criticism that teachers' pay has not risen. On the contrary, the minimum wage for teachers has increased considerably over the last three and a half years. Now, cultural investment. You said they weren't made. I don't know, I'm remembering the National Library, with the National Archives, a very big investment that we've decided with the current government. This is a very, very large investment in the cultural field. Certainly the extension of national broadcasting, I also consider it important for cultural funding. Can I have more? Of course there could be more. Let's be honest, I don't know about you, but my heart or my soul is screaming. If you drive around Estonia and look, for example, many church buildings and sacred houses are in bad condition. This is certainly also a very important part of the Estonian cultural space. I have previously highlighted some of the investments in sport, which I believe are also part of culture. I am also grateful to the Riigikogu and to you in the framework of this corona virus, because this extra budget also provided 25 million for the cultural sector. So it can't be said that culture has somehow been out of focus. I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U26	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U27	Thank you. If I listen to you, it'll be almost fun if only the subject wasn't so serious, it'd rather make you sad. You congratulate the questioners, you say very good questions, then you create some kind of answer where you are actually talking about something else, but not what you were actually asked about. You're redefineing things. You call gross overspending structural reforms. You're going to redefine what investments are. Like I said, it would be fun if the subject weren't so serious. People who say that there are no good stand-up comedians in Estonia, I think they are wrong, because your last performances have proven you to be a professional in this area. I believe there is a great future for you on this subject. I am simply sorry that Estonia, perhaps the best stand-up comedian, is also the Prime Minister, and that makes me more concerned. But my question is something else, namely the monitoring of budgetary expenditure. It's been a while since 2018. You spoke here about some minor changes made to the monitoring of budgetary expenditure. Is there, however, any great things that you have done over this rather long period of time in order to prevent the National Audit Office from coming back and saying that the government has spent nothing without knowing about things? And the Prime Minister says, "Oops! We didn't know. ' What are the big things that you have already done to improve the monitoring of budget expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U28	Thank you. I am sure to tell you that, in view of your high flight into Estonian politics, since the end of the last century, it is certainly a great recognition that you shared here before at my address. Thank you very much. But what is the fundamental change that has been made? Here I really want to congratulate the current Minister of Finance, Martin Helmet. We have taken the budget review very seriously. True, the corona virus has been a little slowing down this process, but the budget review is, in my opinion, a subject that has not been so seriously done now, I don't know, for ten to twenty years. I'm really putting great hopes in it, so if this job can go on, then now the corona virus has paused it all a little bit, and we can come back to it, certainly there is some input in September of this year, when we are making the budget for next year, it is certainly a very fundamental change that has not been made in Estonia for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U29	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U30	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I thought your many answers sounded a little offended. I would like to say that do not be offended, but there has still been praise for what the government and the Prime Minister have done in this Chamber, if they deserve to be commended. But it is clear that when we talk about the budget, we must inevitably also talk about the past and what has been done by the previous prime ministers and what has been done by the previous governments. You've also given some credit yourself, you've been ironic and you've been critical. My question would be: what are the initiatives you have undertaken as Prime Minister in relation to a budget that no one else has done before in order for the Estonian state to do better? Are there any such completely new activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U31	Thank you. Well, I don't know what kind of miracle you're expecting from me now. It is clear that the budget is summed up by one tool, the budget is one tool. Perhaps I have said a lot more boldly than you compare with previous heads of government and prime ministers. Yes, I think this budget is not a matter of itself, structural balance is not a matter of itself, it is not a huge dogma or a purpose that must not be debated at all. And that has actually been the case, we cannot deny it, it has been very strongly in Estonian society so. I think that, in summary, we must always see a person behind economic measures, economic packages and steps. We always have to ask how this Estonian person is doing, whether in a rural area or in a urban area, whether or not it leads to Estonia's life, whether it guarantees Estonia's security or not, whether it gives certainty to the Estonian people's food basket or not, whether it reduces school bullying, mental violence, domestic violence or not? I think these are the real questions I've been asking myself. If you're asking me if there's anything in the budget that's been screwed up, that it's never been, and that's how it is now. Well, I answered one thing, like I said to the previous questioner. I really think what Mr Kranich asked for is actually an important thing. Let's see what comes out of it. But actually you have to look inside the budget for a second and go, let's say, as far north as possible. I think this is important and, in fact, very, very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U32	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U33	Thank you. Good vice chairman! Prime Minister! Something has certainly been done differently, because during the times of your governments, the budget minus numbers have arisen, such as we have never seen before in Estonia. However, it would have been expected that, as a result of this overspending, there would also be progress in some areas. Unfortunately, we have recently heard here that Estonia is also stuck in the Human Development Report. There has been no development in recent years. How do you assess whether it now seems to you, after all this time, that, actually, in terms of budget, in terms of methodology, and perhaps even with regard to objectives, there are still very different objectives within your team? Your partners and you. Have you not listened to the experts or, in spite of the enormous costs, we have not seen any progress, for example, in human development tables, in the indicators that show how we are doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U34	Thank you. Well, we can do a lot of different tables here. Looking at how Estonia's level of prosperity has increased, it has risen. If you look at how Estonian pensions have risen, they have risen. Or if you look at how Estonia's average wage has risen. These have all shown positive trends. In fact, the background to your question is political. You say you see, there are three parties in the government, one says one, the other says the other, the third says the third. That's actually the point of your question. But I say that's not the case. The fact that there's a lot of opinions in the government is, in my opinion, a plus. I don't know, I wouldn't imagine a member of the government sitting on a chair saying we say so, and everyone sings the same chorus. There are no three political parties in the government, there is an Estonian Conservative People's Party in the government, who stands for its voters, he does so well, I think he does so well, the Fatherland Party, who stands for and does so well for its voters, and the Centre Party. It's not a marriage, but it's political cooperation. In my opinion, the government shows very broad involvement in Estonian society, from very different sectors, from very different parts of society. And I think it's positive for Estonia. What is the strength of this government? It's that they can agree. It is that decisions can be made. And I think that's the most important thing in politics. It is said to be a compromise. And in politics, compromises go on. To be honest, Mr Alender, I have had the opportunity to see my colleagues at European Union level for three and a half years now. I saw 28 countries there. It is not the case that one country says one sentence and all 27 or 26 repeat after it. But they want to make decisions, they want to agree and they want to find compromises. And I think it's a very strong plus for an active government. During this year, there have been very complex, seriously complex issues. We've done these things. True, it's up to the highest authority to decide whether it's good or bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U35	Thank you, Prime Minister, for answering the question. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. According to the Labour and Rules of Procedure Act, the first possibility to participate in the negotiations is the representative of enquiries. I don't know if it's in Taavi's garment or Maris Lauri. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U36	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! Now I don't even know if we should change our order of business. Because the Prime Minister who was in front of us last night was different than the Prime Minister who was in front of us today. The answers were different too. Yesterday we learned, for example, that the collection of reserves is bad, spending is good and spending must be as much as possible. We learned new economic truths, which indicate, for example, that if economic growth is to be better than forecast, it makes perfect sense that revenue will fall and expenditure will increase. Something else happened here. Unfortunately, yesterday, the Prime Minister did not respond at all to our questions, that is, what has been done to monitor expenditure. But, ♪ Hooray! The answers came today. Very close, but you came. Something has been done. So maybe we should really look at the rules of procedure so that we can actually get some substantive answers. Yesterday was the same, you could say, sad. For some people in this hall, it was pissed off, it was irritating for some people, it was embarrassing for some people, but I would say that the spectator doesn't have to feel the feelings of what the performer does. Unfortunately, the performer wasn't good yesterday, today it was better. However, our questions were very well defined and really concerned the costs of the state budget and the fact that our spending has gone beyond what was planned. This is the fact that both the Budget Council and the National Audit Office had pointed out. These aspects were still totally ignored in giving us answers. Today, a little bit of our appreciation was accepted that things had really gone wrong. This is a real and serious concern, because the State Budget Act is just like any other law, which means that it must also be monitored. There's no way it's gonna give you a bill of lading that there are prognostications and certain possibilities of deviation. A wise person monitors his or her income, but he or she monitors his or her expenses first and foremost. And he's doing it all the time, not twice a year on the prognosis. He keeps looking at the situation. It's important. Because this part of the expenditure that is left over actually gives us the opportunity to do it in the future. We have to think about our people. And it can really cost people a lot, but it can't be that we should say in the future that they were back to us. I guess those countries that got into budgetary difficulties because they overexploited talked about what we were doing to people. In the end, the very same people suffered badly, very badly. Greece is certainly the brightest example of the recent past, but there have also been difficulties in other countries outside the European Union. And there will probably be difficulties in the European Union. To talk about it, as happened yesterday, that the previous governments have done nothing, and precisely the governments of the current Prime Minister have finally begun to invest, finally to reform, is, in fact, a bit of an insult to the creators and developers of the entire Estonian state, all this time, for the decades that have taken place. So I really hope that nights like this won't come again, that it's serious and constructive, not silent, not unworthy and insulting. I admit that when I put these questions together, I was afraid that this would happen. It was a disappointment in the sense that it really did happen, but in the other way, a confirmation that we know our Prime Minister well. But I am also delighted because, if this goes on, I know that Estonian people are so smart that we will not have such prime ministers for the second time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U37	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U38	Honourable Vice President! Prime Minister! We will then come specifically to the subject of this question, which was the question of monitoring the cost of the budget, motivated by the audit of the National Audit Office. Yes, indeed, by auditing 2018 the National Audit Office found that the monitoring of budget expenditure is incomplete. Well, that was seen in 2019's Water Bour, then there was the previous government of Jüri Ratas, when the finance minister of the government of that time sent out his election materials. I also personally received a letter from a mailbox in Harjumaa, which clearly stated that our budget was balanced, not only in balance but also in surplus, and not only in 2018, but also in 2019. In short, the Minister of Finance had no idea what the budget was. Then, in April, a huge deficit was discovered. But that's history. We come a little closer to today, we reach 2019, the budget. The 2019 Budget Act called for a reduction of 0.5% if there was a large deficit a year earlier. So, then the economic forecast came, the budget deficit was 1.7% of GDP in 2018, and it had to be reduced to 1.2%. A new forecast came, which showed that this problem would be partially resolved in itself, with a deficit forecast of 1.4% of GDP in 2019. Well, then it was 0.2% short. Then the Prime Minister came up and said that, look, we are now improving the budgetary position by 0.2%. There has not been such a responsible government of you as our government, we are improving the budgetary position. Well, the bar was set down. The National Audit Office, the Fiscal Council, warned that you need to improve the budgetary position with a little more margin. No, 0.2%, no more. The bar was set as low as possible and then ran under that bar or was driven down. In 2019 the deficit was 1.9%, i.e. the deficit increased. But the economy also grew, the economy flourished and everything was great, economic growth was over 4%. This year you also took a short-term loan and, of course, this loan was used to cover the running costs of the budget, and the reserves of the Unemployment Insurance Fund were also spent. Now, but now we are getting to today, this year, the situation has got worse, I say, because it is not the budget monitoring that we are feeling here in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We have requested, asked and asked for data on the use of the huge loans that have been taken this year, we have also asked for data on the additional budget expenditure. Well, they're coming very hard, but let's hope that a little bit bit bit by bit this will improve if we insist on better budgetary expenditure monitoring. But what I want to say about this year is, first of all, of course, that we do not only have the same 3 billion, because who knows exactly how much this year's loan will be taken, monitoring is not considered to be the minimum, but I think more. When I asked the Prime Minister yesterday that you see that 3 billion is the loan to which this loan is going, and I asked you to name at your discretion the three biggest investments that will be made this year for this loan money, Jüri Ratas KredEx's investments for the reconstruction of the residential fund were mentioned. And then said another, two investments mentioned. Second, the local om government had some kind of money. That's it. Perhaps the Prime Minister will not remember everything immediately, I will add another 15 million internet investments and the 10 million that were added to the construction of roads. Maybe 10 million isn't too much. 3 billion is a loan and put 100 or 200 million so-called investments here, that is very little. Where's the other 90% going? The remaining 90% will go for running costs, not investments. For officials' salaries, social benefits, expensive election promises, free services, etc., there goes the loan money. And there's nothing to be surprised about because...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U39	Dear waitress, I think you need more time. Please, three minutes extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U40	We are in a pretty big economic crisis and revenue has fallen away, but at the same time no one has reviewed or cut costs. And this expenditure side, the expenditure side of the budget, was made when the economy still grew by over 4% last year. So, at these costs, the central government, the living ministries and government agencies live. At the same time, let's give an example: municipalities are cutting down, Tallinn is cutting down and most are cutting down, by the way, investments are being postponed. Here comes the huge minus, the difference between costs and revenues is getting bigger and paid for with the loan money. At this point, I will conclude, and simply conclude, that things are very bad with public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U41	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U42	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U43	Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The state's finances are the most important tasks of every government, and every year governments have done very well. It is no coincidence that Estonia has been among the best in European fiscal policy. We are used to the fact that Estonia's deficit is always within normal limits, even in times of crisis. And in good times, the Estonian budget has been either balanced or in surplus. We are used to the fact that Estonia's total loan burden is at the lowest in Europe for a long time and, consequently, the loan payments that have to be repaid in current budgets are modest. But now it's changed. From 2017 until 2019, the governments managed by Jüri Ratas have managed to make a structural minus EUR 1.26 billion. Explained, this means that Estonia has fallen from the top of Europe to the fifth. The Chairman of the Budget Council, who appeared before the Riigikogu a few days ago, said this: The deficit in 2018 and 2019 turned out to be so large that it resulted in an infringement of the budget rules. According to current estimates, the deficit was also higher than it was promised in 2017. At this point, I am not talking about the objectives we have set ourselves, but we have violated and have also made a serious mistake against the less stringent European rules. Unfortunately, the situation is not better in 2020 either, because even before the crisis, without having to take into account significantly falling revenues, Estonia's budget was in the final quarter of the European Union in terms of balance. This is not the Estonia I am used to, and this is not the Estonia that will be able to grow quickly in the future and grow faster than others. Now for false claims. Jüri Ratas claimed that investments had been smaller before his governments, and that, when he took office, additional money came for investments. Let's do bigger investment projects. The biggest is Rail Baltic without any doubt. How's it been? In spring 2016, a quarter of a billion euros was put into the country's budget strategy, and now a little over 40 of it has been used. Everyone can do their own mathematics and assess whether it is budgetable or not using the lion's share. The eastern border in the budget was over 70 million, planned to be built by 2020. Then the Eastern border project was made much more expensive, but it was not given more money, but paid attention! was reduced. The consequence, of course, is the delay in investment at the eastern border and the failure to complete the deadline. Let's look at the road investments. This year, for the first time, road investment in the budget fell in absolute terms over several years. If it were logical to always compare as a percentage of the budget or as a percentage of GDP, pay attention! This year, they decreased in absolute terms. Aivar Sõerd from the other bench might be more specific, but if I remember correctly, it was about 14 million. What is more important, however, is that in all the time that the governments of Jüri Ratas have been in office, there has been no additional emphasis: no project of building four-way roads. This can be further discussed in the context of the next inquiry. There has been progress, and not quite unhindered, with this project, which has already been put into the country's budget strategy in the previous government, i.e. the section of the Tartu Road Kose-Mäo. Examples can be provided endlessly. Also, the investments in hospitals or health care establishments that Jüri Ratas spoke about have all received into the budget in the past, by the way, Kääriku. It is a pity that Indrek Saar is not in this hall, he could confirm that if a country's budget strategy approved in April 2016 for the years 2017 On page 60, where each of you can be checked and checked, the building of the Kääriku sports base is a top-notch base. Defence costs, R &amp; D, teachers' salaries. Yes, in nominal terms, they have increased slightly from year to year, and it would be impossible for public revenue to grow very rapidly, but if we look in proportion to other budgets or in proportion to GDP, defence expenditure and R &amp; D funding have fallen as a percentage of GDP, as well as teachers' wages compared to the average in Estonia compared to the time of earlier governments. So I do not know what we are talking about here when it comes to huge progress, because this budget balance or budget minus has gone into a relatively black hole. Let's also take this last straw, extra money for local governments. Many of you remember it was in the previous Riigikogu, I was the vice-chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu at the time, and I remember very precisely that this extra money, which was an increase in the percentage of income tax in the explanatory memorandum of this bill, if you search it out, it says that this change is budget-neutral. Budget-neutral means that there is one specific targeted money that went to the municipalities before, but now the same money was taken and put into that percentage. To present this as huge progress, I think that the municipalities do not agree with it. I'm sure municipalities would like additional funding, but there is no and there is no provision for it, because the budget is so down. I don't think there's any point in talking about reforms. The fact that the levels of the tax system are reform is still a very creative approach, as is the fact that excise policy is a major reform, because if we look at the difference between excise revenue in 2017 and 2018, the forecast compared to the real budget, the total difference is, unfortunately, more than 3% of GDP. It's more than defence costs and R &amp; D in one year total, that's minus. And these are not my data, but the slides of the Chairman of the Budget Council, Raul Eamets, specifically slide 9. It is not a very good feeling to think that, in a situation where Estonia is very likely to face a very serious economic crisis, in which budget receipts fall significantly, regardless of us, we are going to go against the government, which, even when economic growth was very rapid, was unable to deal with the most important issues of finance: keeping the finances in order. I think we have reason to be concerned and we have reason to keep our focus on these issues as Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U45	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U46	Honourable lead! Ladies and gentlemen, A colleague here said that Jüri Ratas is a talented stand-up comedian. I don't agree with him. He doesn't really know how to joke, he's making an effort, but it's not gonna work. And good humor always has a certain spirituality or morality in it so it can be enjoyed. George Ratas doesn't. It was pretty shocking when I came here to listen, the first thing I heard was how he was pissing and taunting the questioners that, oh, you're here, too, oh, you have such history. You could just say something like that at anyone's address, but where were the answers? We had a budget debate here exactly a week ago where we discussed Estonia's fiscal policy and showed how Jüri Ratas's arrival was only torn down. In a nutshell, in the first year he created more than 1%, or 1.1% structural minus, the next 1.8% and then 1.9%. These are, friends, defence costs, this is not a köki-möki, this is not from the budget, this is from GDP, and this is not justified by any of the accepted costs or investments that the Wheel refers to here. Before Jüri Rata, all budgets were made in a slight surplus or balance according to the figures at the time, even written in coalition contracts. The wheel began to relax its rules first, and it was not able to follow them either. Madis Müller, Ardo Hansson, the most lenient people in the world, vicious people, can't imagine they're capable of persecuting, but they're vexing over this budgetary policy. Ardo Hansson has already started in the beginning of 2017 with us that it is opportunism, you are taking the opportunity to do a minus at the wrong time, you are making rules for yourself, you are damaging the growth potential of the economy, you are breaking Estonian finances. These positions are repeated in the annual positions of Eesti Pank, are repeated in the Board of Budgets, the European Commission says, OECD, IMF. The European Commission says: your fiscal policy has become pro-cyclical, that is, you are doing damage, you are greedy, you are buying votes, but you are doing damage, that is the result in Estonian. What's morally irritating to me is how the Wheel presents it itself, having clearly broken our finances. We are prepared for the crisis without reserves; we must start issuing bonds quickly. Instead of reacting quickly, this is what we're talking about: but you didn't do these things, I started the world. This is so unpleasant. After all, we see that there are numbers ahead, we have spent this budget here in the Riigikogu. And the same man comes again and says, "What would you not have done?" I wonder if Jüri Ratas raised the cost of protection by more than 2%, whether he really created the base that is the ratings he boasts about. They were all created before him, it has been confirmed by experts, it has been shown by graphs, they were on the wall exactly a week ago, how before the budget was made in the plus, the speeding minus during Ratas, and they were wrong in the negative direction. This year, too, was made in a structural deficit during a period of high economics. It's immoral, George Ratas. It's greedy and immoral. And it is immoral how you treat the questioners here, who are actually concerned and who have actually built finance and an Estonian state, not by weakening the future, but by creating a base. The experts have confirmed that. All this rewording of investment and what these concepts were, it's so pathetic and it's so stupid that the investment is this income tax system. Someone said, corrected that... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U47	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U48	When he reduced the inequality. Here, Jüri Ratas, set out this coverage table that was in your bill, how money was taken, the pensioner's income tax-free minimum. The support of the low-wagers, this talk of the line-by-line, these are all money taken from the weakest rather than from the strongest, as envisaged by the ideology of the Centre Party, and the burden actually fell on those who did not win anything at all. This inequality calculation is wrong if we take on more sources of cover. It makes no sense to brag about this failed tax system, where the weaker were actually abducted, and to call it an investment. Especially lame then is that all these years, the budget speeches have been about how we did, we spent it on this, we did it, we're doing it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it, we're going to do it. First of all, it's a minus. Second, what did you do that for? Where is this structural really repair? Where's the consideration you did instead of what you did? Where's the payback? It's all gone from this natural budget debate in the Riigikogu. It's just sneaking around that we brought you, and then they're gonna put on a poster that we made for you. Either the train, the railroad we brought you, or we brought you this crisis budget, we paid out of our own pockets, we did, didn't we? Then the Prime Minister's gonna smear it, but then he's gonna say a bad thing, but I'm just gonna smack it. The fact is that this year, where we have had the opportunity to satisfy our greed for a long time, we were made, that is, the government made a savings budget. Everything was frozen, the payroll wasn't anywhere that was squealed here before that, you know, serious men, that they were going to be 25%, and that was before the election. Chocolate had to be given on the train, but the 2020 budget was already made as a savings budget, everything had to be frozen. Well, then you should look in the mirror, and you shouldn't be squealing about how they did it before, but I started the world. After all, it is now being given back, even before the crisis comes on the subject of substantial cuts, and all this in the high economics. On investment once again: I am not a fan of concrete, I am critical of all these investments and I would expect everyone to talk about profitability in some sense and alternatives in some way, but the fact is that this constant minus has not brought about an increase in investment. Estonia has always been at the top of Europe's investment from the side of the country without borrowing itself, without spending it in pieces. Estonia has made it. And if we have a prime minister who wants to joke around here, frankly, it's not an investment in the future either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U49	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The Prime Minister has an opportunity to conclude. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U50	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! By the end of this inquiry, I would first of all like to say that, in any case, I have never thought that this topic is not important or that it is not important. It's important. Now for the sake of the verbatim. What Maris Lauri said that I've said was that reserve gathering is bad. No, on the contrary, I said that a balance must be found between the collection of reserves and, let's say, the debt or the debt burden, which at one point is more correct in fiscal policy. We see at different moments in the market that one can be right or the other can be right, depending on the interest rate. But I'm certainly not saying that it's bad to collect reserves. I'm definitely gonna disprove that statement. Next, you said spending, i.e. I say spending is good. No budget side has revenue and expenditure and certainly has to be spent, but you have to spend wisely, you have to spend correctly. When you said what it was for you here last night, I say what it was for me, it was a busy debate, a real debate on the right subject. Unfortunately, Mr Kranich has gone out of the hall, but both in substance and in form what he said to me, I would advise him to review Aivar Sõerdi's speech in this round of negotiations. Very substantive, but also very good in form. Mr Rõivas says that the most important task has been the budget of governments. I do not know, I continue to believe that this has been only one instrument. For me, the most important thing is that the Estonian population grows so that we have the benefits so that we can reach the point of positive growth so that we can have as much return to Estonia as possible, so that Estonia is a good place for people to live and create their own family and work so that our children's rich families can have confidence here in Estonia. It's important to me. Security, so we can have social security. These are all important things. I think on these I agree to really debate with you, and these are very ideological issues. If you say it is a budget only, then once again: a budget is a tool that is important and cannot be taken in any way arrogantly or condescendingly. Then you say, Mr Rõivas, that this is not the Estonia you are accustomed to. I do not know what kind of Estonia you are accustomed to, is it one with only fine-tuning, lack of narratives? I don't know. We may have different visions, although I think, in summation, we are still standing for one Estonia, which is strong and which is a united, successful and prosperous Estonia. Now, Mr. Ligi says bonds versus reserves. I really think we need to use other fiscal instruments on the market before we go to reserves, whether it is a loan, whether it is bonds, and then we use reserves. I think reserves should be one of the last things in a good way. Now the numbers. There have been many questions that have all happened to this economy in the last six months. Let's look at the numbers. The average salary was 1146 euros in 2016, the average salary in 2019, well it has ended in the year, let's not count this year, is 1407 euros. The average wage of teachers in 2016 is €1208, the average wage of teachers in 2019 is €1540. The average wage increase has then been 261 euros and the average wage increase for teachers has been 332 euros. The average wage is linked to economic growth, but the rise in teachers' wages is still linked to government policy decisions. If we look at the economic table more closely, we will compare again two years: economic growth in 2016 - 2.6 and 2019 - 4.3 GDP, million euros, 2016 - 21694, 2019 - over 28000; GDP per capita 2016 - 16487, 2019 - 21163. I mean, we can lay these numbers both in front and behind of each other here, but this statement that one is doing everything wrong and the other is doing everything right, and that applies to me too, that certainly hasn't been the case. Everyone has done their best to make life here in Estonia go on, and he has moved on, especially to our Estonian people, to the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U51	Thank you, Prime Minister. The answer to this question is closed and this item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U52	We're moving on to today's agenda. Secondly, Aivar Sõerdi, Yoko Alenderi, Andres Suti, Urve Tiidus, Annely Akkermanni, Toomas Kivimägi, Jüri Jaanson, Valdo Randpere, Signe Riisalo, Andrus Seeme, Ants Laaneots, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Urmas Kruuse have submitted an inquiry on 11 February 2020 about the road maintenance plan. Aivar Sõerdi, as the representative of the interviewees, would like to speak as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U53	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Indeed, this inquiry was launched in February. It has been a long time since then, but that does not mean that the subject is not topical. All the questions that have been asked in this inquiry are also relevant today. Soon it will be a year since the government came up with its big plan to build roads with the help of the so-called PPP or public-private partnership. A plan was announced to build the highways from Tallinn for four lines in the coming years. And indeed, this plan came up last summer. In August 2019, Finance Minister Martin Helme promised to bring proposals to the government for project work in the near future. By spring, the laws needed to implement the plan were allowed to be completed. In the meantime, summer has become spring. I am also referring here to the words of the Minister of Finance. He said that cooperation between the public and private sectors would be possible to build Tallinna-Pärnu, Tallinna-Tartu and Tallinna-Narva highway in full four lines in Estonia already in the next few years. The Minister added that for these PPP projects, it is also important that all this is done very quickly, that the loan burden remains with the private partner and that the maintenance will also remain with the private partner. The plan of the Minister of Finance was also enthusiastically supported by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, who said that the Ministry was preparing a State Road Savings Plan, which envisages, among other things, development and financing principles for the construction of the three main roads in four lines. So, now we have questions about the specific road plan that the government approved on 9 January. It's not like there's much to be said about these four-line highways. We consider that EUR 4 million will be allocated to the construction of four-line roads, i.e. specifically designed in the current situation. While reading the road plan, of course, the sharp decrease in road maintenance equipment was immediately noted, from 279 million this year to 209 million euros by 2023. In particular, there is a significant reduction in the means of developing a road network to 25 million compared to 100 million this year. Now the situation has changed a lot in the meantime, in the sense that the government should also have made a budgetary strategy in April for a country with some sort of updated numerical plan, but it was not done. The budgetary strategy was actually carried out under the name of the stabilisation programme and submitted to the European Commission in English, but there was no mention of these four-line roads or PPPs either. The situation has also changed in the sense that, in the meantime, a lot has been added to the loan. At least three billion or more this year, another billion next year. But if we look at this year's investments, the Road Administration was allocated an additional budget of EUR 10 million, a little bit to local governments, a few-thirty million, and there is no other official information. So there are specific questions about PPP projects in question. We are waiting for answers to them, and we certainly want to know in concrete terms when or how this PPP project will proceed. It was supposed to be a pilot project on the Are wasp road, 21 kilometres from the four-line highway. When will this call for tender be announced? Of course, after that, the individual projects divided into 20 procurements, with which the rest of the roads will be developed, we also want to know exactly about them.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U54	Thank you. I now ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, first of all thank you for your questioning. This was a very good reason and an opportunity to deal with some of the previous road plans and see what has happened there. To begin with, while Kristen Michal, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, was from the Reform Party in 2015, he managed to eliminate EUR 66 million in this area by changing the road plan. On 21 October 2016, Kristen Michal announced that the government had approved a renewed road-saving plan for the state roads for the years 2014 to 2020. With this amendment, the Minister halved the resources intended to prepare the projects. If this had not been done, we would have many more opportunities to quickly build four-line roads, we would have projects. Or another example. In order to make gravel roads dust-free, this road-saving plan was previously planned for a period of just over EUR 80 million from 2016 to 2020. Kristen Michal paused and left 34 million, or more than half of it. With this money, every road with more than 100 cars a day could have been taken under a hard cover. It would have been done for today. I will answer the following questions. The first question: 'Which funds are going to be used to repay road PPP projects? 'The reimbursement of private-public cooperation (PPP) projects is planned from the state budget. The second question: 'The first section of the PPP road should be a 21-km-long slippery-are road. What amount has been taken into account for the reimbursement of this section of the road? 'The Government of the Republic has decided, at its Cabinet meeting on 19 December 2019, to choose the construction of a four-line section of Libatse-Nurme road for the PPP pilot project in Tallinn. The discussion of the PPP transaction at the Cabinet of the Government of the Republic will be held in June, including in order to take decisions relating to the preparation and announcement of public procurement for this pilot project. The third question: 'If the Libatse-Are road section is completed and launched in 2021, does this mean that the PPP project will have to be reimbursed from 2022? " We are currently in the process of pre-designing and assessing the environmental impact of the slippery road section, then acquiring the land necessary for the realisation of the object. The preliminary project, the environmental impact assessment and the land acquisition process are estimated to end in 2021. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: The Government of the Republic has not yet taken a decision on the preparation and conduct of PPP procurement. If the Government of the Republic decides to execute the project as a PPP transaction, repayments are planned after the project is completed and the traffic is opened. Question 4: 'According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, 35 million euros less has been planned for road maintenance than in the plan approved last year. The reason for this reduction is, according to the Ministry, a change in the Cohesion Fund's performance reserve. What section of the road was these performance reserve resources intended to be built, and by what means will they be replaced? ' The resources of the performance reserve are intended for the construction and reduction of the road section of the Luhamaa road Kose-Mäo were covered by other revenue of the state budget. Question five. The reduction in the financial volumes of the road map is expected to be met by the Cohesion Fund funds for the new EU budget period 2021 to 202027. Is the EU Cohesion Policy budget also intended to finance the reimbursement of the PPP's roads? The final size and sectoral breakdown of cohesion funds for the EU budget period 2021/2027 has not yet been decided. The contractual payments of PPP transactions are not expected to be eligible from the cohesion instruments of the new period and can therefore not be used for this purpose. The resources allocated from the Cohesion Funds to national routes are intended to be devoted to investments in the TEN-T road network in accordance with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on Union guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network. Question six. Please explain the amounts included in row '2014 to 2020' of Annex 1 to the road management plan and in the performance reserve. Does it also include the Cohesion Fund's performance reserve? In the Annex to the National Road Management Plan 2020 to 2030, in row 1, '2014 to 2020 performance reserve funds' are divided as follows: The Cohesion Fund's resources for the period 2014 to 2020 are 25 million, 2021 16 million and 2022 9 million, the estimated amount of the performance reserve for 2021 to 14,6 million and 2022 to 12,5 million. In other words, the total of 25 million in 2020 and almost 31 million in 2021 and 23.5 million in 2022. Question seven. According to preliminary data, Estonia is expected to receive just over EUR 800 million from the Cohesion Fund from the EU's long-term budget for 2021/2027. Has the Government of the Republic discussed what sums are expected to go to the development of railways, including extensive electrification of railways, and how many roads? The budget negotiations with the European Commission for the period 2021/2027 are ongoing. The Government of the Republic has discussed the original proposals for the breakdown of the measures of the European Union for the next budgetary period, but following the renewed proposals submitted by the European Commission at the end of May for the next European Union budgetary framework and the re-launch package, it is appropriate to renew the proposal and distribution of the measures proposed by Estonia on the basis of the agreement to be negotiated on these proposals. Question eight. What is the state of play of the first PPP highway section, the four-line road design work of the slippery-are? Given that all construction risks for PPP projects must remain with the private sector, we ask whether the private PPP partner is involved in the construction of this section of the road. At the moment, pre-design and environmental impact assessment of Libatse-Kurme road section are underway for the Road Administration. If the Government of the Republic decides to proceed with the realisation of the project as a private-public cooperation, the public procurement will be organised for the procurement of a type of PPP transaction, which is financed by a special construction fund. Question 9: "To what extent will all new PPP four-line road design work be covered by the end of this year? ' By the end of this year, the Road Administration has started preparatory work on the construction of the main roads for four lines on the following sections of the road. First, when preparing preliminary projects for the bypasses of Tallinn and the km of the Tähtvere rural municipality, including environmental impact assessment, on the Adavere road of Luhamaa, 116 to 132 km by road and 168 to 183 km of Kärevere rural municipality. Secondly, on section 62 of the Pärnu Ikla road in Märjamaa, Tallinn. Preparation of a km preliminary project, including an environmental impact assessment. Thirdly, on the section of Toila of Tallinn, the preliminary project was drawn up, including the environmental impact assessment. Now I'll come back to the introduction. If the funds for design or preparation had not been reduced in 2016, I think these projects would already exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U56	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U57	Thank you. Dear Minister, 'Would' be a bad helper, it won't help us any further. You have already been in government for almost a century, you should act as you should, there is no need and there is no point in looking back so much. But here's my question. As a former mayor of Tallinn, you should know that PPP projects are very expensive for the state and the municipality. After all, we have an example in Tallinn in the form of schools; it was necessary to intervene in order to convert them, because they are unreasonablely expensive. From a local government point of view, it only meant that it could somehow circumvent the budget rules and then implement them. That is why I am not going into any substantive discussion right now. But the specific question relates to the southern circle. The Prime Minister here a few weeks ago promised that it would be a very bad move to lift the southern circle, I don't know, to 2024 or 2025 and then to review it. I want confirmation from you now that I have understood correctly. It's one of the few or almost the only projects that are completely there, just put a knock on the ground and start building. Are you going to give money to this project next year in a new light?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U58	Thank you. First of all, as far as action is concerned, we started to act on our own as soon as we realised that the design money on four-line roads had been cut off and that the country's road plan for this year had 10 million euros planned, or twice as much as in previous years, precisely in order to design four-line roads. As far as the cost of PPP projects is concerned, it must certainly be taken into account that this money paid also includes road maintenance, but, which I think is even more important, the socio-economic impact of roads must also be assessed. If we take the socio-economic impact, the fact that we do not have the four-line roads that could have been built over the long period of your government will cost the people of Estonia 500 million euros. That's the cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U59	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Unfortunately, these answers cannot be satisfied; a little more concrete could be the 'roadmap', how these PPP roads will then be developed. It's been almost a year since they came up with this plan. You could have some kind of schedule to move on with it. This vague talk that maybe the government will discuss in June, maybe we will decide something, maybe something will be done, is not a minister-worthy answer. Please tell us in particular when these draft laws for PPP projects will still come to the Riigikogu when these pre-works of the slippery-are highway section will end, so-called land purchases and studies will be announced for the procurement of the Flying-Are pilot project. How long will it take for the winner of this procurement to design and construct this 21 km section of road?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U61	Thank you. I would certainly say, for the sake of the verbatim, that I did not use the word'maybe' in my report. I said the government intends to discuss this in June of this year. All the following steps will depend on this government's decision whether or not the government will opt for the PPP project. If the Government decides so, the first call for tender is the procurement of a consultant in order to prepare the procurement documentation, etc. If the government decides this, then the consultant's procurement will definitely be announced this summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U62	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In my opinion, too, it is somewhat inappropriate to accuse Kristen Michal of knowing that the portfolio of the Minister of Economic Affairs is already in your party's hands from November 2016. It's been four years. I'd ask you a little bit about a later time, since you indicated that there were no projects. Can you explain to the Chamber why your party partner designed a 2 + 1 solution between Nurme and Libatse until the end and all paid off, instead of designing a 2 + 2 solution? Why was this done? If you had done 2+2 right away, your own party partner could have done it, we would have this project on the table. Can you explain that? And second, I would like to clarify Aivar Sõerd's question. So when do you predict that you will actually be ready for a lot of talked about Nurme
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U64	Thank you. I think it is quite appropriate to recall this, which means to come back to the way the country's road plan has developed over the years. Because when we talk about 2+2 roads in particular here today, there was indeed money for designing, 2016 this money went out, and a budget strategy has been made accordingly. So I think it's very appropriate. As far as the construction of 2 + 1 roads is concerned, there is certainly a section where 2 + 1 roads are appropriate due to the traffic load, but the current government has taken the view that we prefer the construction of 2 + 2 roads and that changes have been made accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U65	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I repeat, but at the beginning of my cooperation, the ruling coalition drew attention to the messages that hundreds of kilometres of main roads in Estonia are being built into four lines. In particular, the current Minister for Finance, Martin Helme, with this road construction plan, whose message of cooperation between the private and the public sector sounded, I will say frankly, promisingly. In your responses today, you mentioned some sections of the road where a potential public-private partnership project could be realised and where some preparations are in progress. However, we have also heard that cost-effectiveness and effective management are somewhat complex aspects of the construction of public-private cooperation roads. This is, above all, the issue of money and will, too. Can this European recovery fund, which is potentially agreed here and within the European Union, provide any additional resources to implement plans such as these four-line major roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U67	Thank you. In particular, I do not personally believe that there will be additional resources, because the recovery fund is primarily focused on smart and green solutions, but obviously does not qualify for the construction of roads. The final truth is not until the decisions or decisions have been confirmed. So we'll find out. But there's no addition from that foundation.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U68	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You actually did an introduction to my question just a moment ago. I also wanted to ask about the plan to relaunch the European Union's economy. In one of your replies, you said that now, compared to the negotiations on funding for the previous European Union period, which were ongoing, because there will be additional money, you must probably also change your wishes and ambitions and rephrase them. My question, which I spoke to the Prime Minister about yesterday, in the introduction to the rebooting plan, is: do you have a plan that you are going to apply for? Could it be the construction of Rail Baltic local stops, the purchase of the necessary trains? Because so far, we've been talking to you about this, too, but there hasn't been any money for it, they're just being designed. Similarly, the tram connections between Tallinn and Ring Svalds, as your colleague Urve Tiidus answered, could bring money for smart and environmentally friendly solutions. These are smart and environmentally friendly transport projects. Do you think that's a good idea? Will you take it with you here and negotiate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U70	Thank you. These are undoubtedly smart and good solutions, both the tram and everything that relates to Rail Baltic, especially, as you said, local stops. In fact, it was already possible to obtain money for the development of tram routes in this budget period. How the Re-launch Fund or what comes up with it will be revealed in the course of these discussions, but both are certainly points that Estonia could take into account and stand up for.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U71	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! My question is that the road map has a very nice 'Estonia's way to dust-free until 2030' programme. In southern Estonia, Põlva-, Võru- and Valgamaa, the share of state roads is almost 50% higher in Estonia. What would you say, above all, to the people of South Estonia, since this programme is already being implemented again? We're waiting. We'd like to catch up with Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U73	Thank you. I say that this year, a total of EUR 15 million has already been allocated with the main budget to make gravel dust-free. I say it by heart now, but I think the size was three million, which went to South-Estonia, including south-east Estonia, in three counties: Võru, Põlva and Valga. With an additional budget, another EUR 5 million was allocated to get dust roads under hard cover. And this five million goes exclusively to Southeast Estonia. The total amount of EUR 8 million will then be in the order of EUR 8 million, and I think this should change quite a bit in South Estonia. Well, that's a lot more than it used to be on gravel roads. In the past, there were about five million for the whole of Estonia, and now there are eight million for South Estonia alone. So this is, I think, a very big change for South Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U74	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U75	Thank you. Two of these points of view stand out by listening to you. One is what I have just accused Jüri Ratas of, namely boasting at a certain cost, we have allocated, we are spending here, and the calculation doesn't matter. We've decided to spend, that's huge wisdom. I don't share this wisdom with you, I think we need to talk about the feasibility, the reliance, the gradualness of the roads, but that's not what you're dealing with. And the other is that you didn't, and we did. It even sounded like some fantastic charge of 500 million, like we've lost so much of the country. Tell me where you come from, whether it comes from a party or a family, that it has not done all the things that need to be done in the past. Where does that logic come from, and where does this psychology come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U76	Thank you. I certainly didn't want to thank you, I just brought out the dry numbers, because I know that your party is a party of numbers, and I think you like the numbers even if they're unpleasant for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U77	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Let's open the negotiations. Aivar Sõerd first appears on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U78	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, There was still time to prepare a response to this question from February. Well, there could have been some specificity in these answers and some new information on how PPP road preparation works. But it wasn't specific. This whole grand scheme is extremely vague... [[A. Sõerdi's phone is ringing.]] I'm sorry! And to sum up the Minister's presentation, it can be concluded that former Minister Michal is responsible and that is why the current government is not making progress on PPP projects. Once again, it will soon be a year when you announced this plan spectacularly. Newspapers wrote, TV showed, but after that, there's silence. A legislative framework was promised by spring. Then there was gonna be a pilot project. It was even ready to be chosen, a 21 - kilometre - long, four - line section of the Grease. Immediately after that, the remaining three-way projects and 20 separate procurements had to come. So where have we been for almost a year now? The Minister replied that in June the government would discuss this issue again. The task set out for the debate, or where the debate is intended to be, is quite confusing. If we are now talking about deciding whether or not this pilot project will come at all, it will take a lot of time until we may be able to get to some real things and activities, because, as the Minister's response turned out, maybe in the summer a call for a consultant will be announced. Well, then the consultant does his job, then there are pre-plans, land purchases, etc. There must be some time before the procurement of this main contractor or the main partner, but we are still a long way from that. Then this partner starts designing and finally building. This whole plan is so unrealistic and its meaning is questionable, because it is known from the practice of other countries that these PPP-made constructions will be much more expensive than the fact that the state would directly borrow, tender and pay for these constructions with loan money, as the loan percentages are currently very low. But, as we know, the current government is going to be borrowing for running expenses. But now, as we come back to the PPP projects, we can conclude from this debate today that this government is not able to cope with road construction in the PPP form. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U79	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! I didn't expect any real answers here. A former minister was sought out, his sins were counted, regardless of what had been done. Although I don't remember, maybe I'm wrong, but I think that during the time of Kristen Michal, this bad guy Kristen Michal, the construction of the section of Kose-Mäo started, 170 million. But maybe I'm wrong. Because right now, I haven't found anything but four million design money. Even if Kristen Michal reduced the money, it's still bigger than the government's. But that is not the main issue. The main point is that you've been in government for almost four years soon, you're chasing a blur somewhere like the movie "The Moon in the Mist." But one thing really saddened me. Minister, I hope you will take this opportunity to conclude here or to comment after the speeches are over. I asked you very specifically. The Southern Circle in Tartu, your government's decision, pushed your government out of sight of the road plan. You have talked about investments, and the same point relates to the previous point that we discussed concerning budgetary rules and discipline. If you had continued budgetary discipline and behaved reasonably, we should have borrowed not from current expenditure but from these same road projects, even if Jürgen Ligi did not like them. But the principle could have invested clearly more and clearly with better money than at the peak. That's definitely a problem. Please take this opportunity, come here and tell the Tartians that as a minister you will lift this project, which you have pushed out of the view of the government in the past, back into this field of view and start building next year! Because this project is complete. The only question is that this money must be put in there from the billions you have planned for various investments. Please, Minister, take this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U81	Thank you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, I'm sorry that I didn't come here at all on this question of questioning, but on a completely different subject. Just last night, the story happened that the session was over, but according to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the free microphone can only be used on Monday evenings and this opportunity fell out. Last night, however, it turned out that two people, me and Helmen Hunt, had important messages to say at the end of the spring session. So I would like to thank Mr Seeder, President of the sitting, with whom we reached such a solution that we can still say our messages. I once again apologize for me and Helmen to barge in here like this! But here's the thing. Unpleasant messages must be said at the end of this spring session, for the last time, things must be settled. What is it now? Last autumn or at the end of last year, the Reform Party introduced draft Estonian Public Broadcasting Act 122, which then was planned to go smoothly this year, until the political parties of the government coalition decided to cut it out of the proceedings without any explanation and interrupt the second reading. We understand that this is a political process, there is such a power struggle. I see. I also had a longer discussion with Aadu Musta, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, and we explained things. We can understand each other, we can not understand, it's this thing that makes sense and there's nothing unpleasant about it, it's this process. But what's the real problem now? This is that the second reading was s. On May 5th or May 6th and two days later, on May 8th, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Federation of Deafists and the Estonian Association of Hearers sent a joint return. They sent a letter with questions to the Estonian Centre Party Group, in a word, to the power parties. It has now been almost a month and a half, and no one has responded to this letter. Look, the way we communicate with people from outside this house is rude and unpleasant. I must remind you, I do not believe that you, Mrs Kersti Sarapuu, Mr Siim Pohlak, Chairman of the Group of the Conservative Party of Estonia, and Mr Priit Sibul, Chairman of the Group of the Isamaa, have a good reason for not replying to this letter. I don't believe it. In short, the letter. In this letter, three pages ask or point out that this bill, which was issued, would extend the obligation of Estonian National Broadcasting to ensure the availability of television programmes for people with hearing impairments. 'The Group of the Environment Party, the Fatherland and the EKRE decided to interrupt the amendment of this law for reasons that were incomprehensible to us at the session of the Riigikogu. According to EPIKoja and our member organisations, the Estonian Federation of Kurtians and the Estonian Association of Hearers, this decision was unexpected and extremely regrettable. ' It's a quote from this letter. And at the end, they also ask a question, asking for an explanation of why it was decided to suspend the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on National Broadcasting, in short, to interrupt. How, then, is the commitment to be extended? Legitimate questions. No one who initiated the bill has ever given an answer to anyone. However, I think it is very important to stress that the target group must be given an answer. I call on you, as the Centre Party Group, the Isamaa Group, the Group of the Estonian Conservative Party, to pull yourself together and respond specifically to them during the remainder of this spring session why you did so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U83	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please! Does Aadu Black have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U84	I think it's important to answer because my name has been named and discussed, which needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U85	Yeah, you'll get a reply later.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U86	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for this opportunity. As Jüri Jaanson said here, the three of us were in the hall last night at 12.15, and I thank Mr Seeder very much, who thought that in fact we should probably change our home and operating procedures exactly the point that concerns the possibility of a free microphone, because on Monday it may not always be possible when the session ends at 24:00, and then the free microphone will not be available for the whole week at all. It wouldn't be a problem if it had been pushed to the next Monday, but summer's coming up. That is why the idea that Mr Seeder said that we need to reform our domestic and operational procedures on these points and do so in the autumn is, in my opinion, very right and sensible. Thank you again for this opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 'All happy families are like each other. Every miserable family is unhappy in its own way. "This is Lev Tolstoy's idea of a novel "Anna Karenina." The law on psychiatric assistance and a specific addition, which would also allow minors under 18 years of age to turn to a psychiatrist without parental consent, do not need families where relationships between children and parents are in order, where children have been listened to and listened to, where love and trust prevail, where home is always a place where children are supported and loved unconditionally in families where both joys and concerns are boldly spoken at home, where children's joys are the joys and concerns of the whole family being sought together. In such families, children grow up and enter adult life with a sense of security and pass it on to their future children. My education is social work. Having worked in Viljandi, Estonia's most beautiful city for more than 20 years, leading the social services there and being the deputy mayor of this field, I was in contact with families, where relationships were often bad or very bad between parents and children, where there was close violence, where I was exposed to children without parental care and also to sexually abused children. I was also in contact with the so-called bank card holders who did not have any economic problems because their parents or parents worked abroad, where younger children were often educated by older children and, if well, grandmothers-grandfathers. However, these children lacked the most important home and love, the happy childhood, and the certainty and knowledge of the need for help when it comes to anxiety. I must also talk about bullying at school and on the Internet, where children often needed adult help, but they were ashamed to turn to their parents. In the town of Viljandi, a young man who thought he was communicating with another youth was deceived by an adult paedophile and a molester. The young man was ashamed to tell his parents, and he found no other way but suicide. Situations where, after separation, parental custody disputes make children a weapon against another parent, which is very difficult for children both mentally and psychologically, are not strangers to child protection workers or to courts. As Tartu's pediatrician, family therapist and psychologist Lemme Haldre, who received the "Children and Children" Life Work Award on 1 June, said Lemme Haldre, is one of the areas of concern to her, the sexual violence between children, which means that older children take advantage of younger children. Yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs, the deafening silence that has already lasted for months, there was a debate between representatives of non-profit organisations and the best experts in the field of child psychology and the Chancellor of Justice's Office and members of the Commission on the psychiatric assistance law (proposal 115). By the time of the Commission's meeting, the Commission had received 36 joint visits from youth and mental health organisations. I quote only one paragraph from this appeal: 'We turn to the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu regarding the draft Act supplementing § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act (115 SE). We believe that a change is essential to further empower young people. This is particularly the case where mental health changes, which provide additional opportunities for young people to receive help, should be a priority for public health and therefore also for the Riigikogu. ' Finally. Discussion is always better than silence. And in a parliamentary country, this place is a large hall where the vote expresses its support and support or opposition. Once again: a large hall, not a Commission, where even to put on the agenda and hold a debate, the coalition can dictate whether and when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U87	Aadu Black, please! A word for a reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I consider it necessary to comment a little on this issue raised by my colleague, Jüri Jaanson, and to correct the views of the Committee on Culture in particular. Point one, we really thank Jüri Jaanson unanimously for this initiative, which has been applied, not yet as a law, but also as a reality in Estonia. I am referring here to a number of the problems he has raised. For example, the National Archives already did in the same spirit events with translation, etc. However, it is important to say that we have talked about this with the national broadcasting management, and yesterday this was one of the topics in our negotiations with the national broadcasting management. Another reason is that the issue as a euro directive will come to our agenda immediately in the autumn. And I promise, for my part, that we will certainly invite Mr Jüri Jaanson to this meeting, and we will also work with the Committee on Social Affairs on this. The issue is not finished or sidelined, but we will continue to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U89	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, is...? George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U90	Thank you very much. Yes, in response to Mr Aadu Black, I would just say that, of course, we talked to each other, and that is perfectly understandable both from the point of view of the Committee on Culture and from my point of view. But it is not the views we are talking about, but it is now that the responses and questions of the target groups should be answered. They didn't get any answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U91	Got it. Does Jürgen Ligi have a call? What's the format of the call now? Free mike? The free microphone is on Monday and theoretically should not continue on Tuesday, but the board made its wise decision that since there are no more Mondays, the word was given to those who wished. But I wouldn't go on with the free microphone right now. [[A voice from the hall.]] Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! Of course, we should talk about the road plan to the end. And my name sounded something like it doesn't matter if I like four-lined tea. No, it doesn't matter. I actually like four-lined roads. It's good to drive. I am not complaining that Estonia has not yet been asphalted, I am complaining about such blunt goals, where the minister comes and says that, oh, no, it is not practical, but we have decided to asphalt Estonian soils, fields and forests. This logic towards nature in the 21st century is pathetic, but it is also completely pathetic to public finances. I also do not complain that PPP projects are not progressing. Thank God you're not making any progress! The PPP is theft at the expense of the future, it is self-deception and failure to comply with budget rules. In fact, every project and every debate here in the Riigikogu should come over the feasibility of spending investments. Suspense! Not that he's useless, but we've made up our minds. The four-line idea, of course, has gone through the programme of all parties, but it also doesn't fit that the minister comes here and says something that is still quite startling. I didn't hear the beginning, maybe he explained something, but the fact that you didn't already finish cost Estonia 500 million, because you were in power, but didn't, is too pathetic even for Savisaar. Such a tribute to the questioners and Parliament is not appropriate. I can't imagine how people like that live, how they think. Is everything that hasn't already been done faulty? The reality is that all budget expenditure should be as uniform as possible, weighted and investment among them should follow some logic. The state can't dismantle itself retroactively. Thank God he hasn't tried to make everything ready. Because the technology is changing, and when you push it at the same time, the prices are being driven up, and the sense of reason is being left unweighted. In that sense, it's very nice to have a light break. There will be no forced deflation and consideration of where four lines of road are needed, and what is the state of finance at all. It's not a big idea or a vision of not making smart investments, cutting science's money, cutting education's money, essentially freezing it, but then talking about asphalt instead of brains. I did not, frankly, sign an inquiry on the grounds that there is no idea why you have not already asphalted. The promise was stupid, in that sense you have to ask. Stupid promise. Some promised to be ready in four years. On this account, yes, but then the minister's dignity should have those reasons for not being able to do so in four years. Even Martin Helme is a little quiet, you know, still can't, we have some sort of coordination here and some kind of design to do first. A lot smarter than what we heard here, because we haven't done it, we've lost 500 million. I think we've won five billion by not doing everything in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U93	Got it. This was now at the discussion of the questioning of the road plan. There is no further talk request. I do not see the honourable minister who would otherwise have the opportunity to conclude, so there is no final word and the question has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U94	Now we move on to the agenda and we have item No 3, the second reading of the draft law amending the laws on family benefits initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. The rapporteur is Priit Sibul, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U95	Honorable President! Dear colleagues and dear colleagues! The draft law amending family benefits and other laws will present you here for the third time. As the President of the sitting said, we have a continuation of the second reading. I recall that the initial point of the law from the Ministry was that some of the objectives or thoughts of the law have been lost in the course of the amendments to the various laws. Perhaps children's benefit is paid to children under 19 years of age, but those who graduate after comprehensive school have the opportunity to receive child benefit for the summer months as well, if they continue to study, but there was no legal basis for paying them. Now, with these amendments, this will be corrected. Similarly, as of 1 July 2020, the initial objective was to suspend the parental benefit by calendar month according to the parents' wishes and to continue until the child was three years old. As soon as both the Minister and the officials of the Ministry introduced it at first reading, they expressed their wish to add to this draft the idea that, in the case of successive births of children, the calculation period for parental benefit could be obtained from two and a half years to three years. During the second reading, this ministerial proposal also came, and that was why the Commission decided to suspend the second reading of the draft. The debate on the continuation of the second reading took place in the Commission on Thursday 11 June, where we still had three amendments, the first of which is more editorial and concerns the deletion of § 2 (8) from the draft. These provisions, which were described there, are introduced and formulated in § 1 as different paragraphs and items. This amendment was supported by all members in the Commission. The second amendment is on transitional provisions for the calculation of parental benefit. Perhaps the families, parents, and children to whom this topic applies will be defined, in principle, for those who are already on parental leave, and the calculation will be carried out around. If they benefit from this, they will receive a possible conversion on the basis of the version that will apply from 1 July, if that is of interest. And the third amendment, which I presented last week, which was then not discussed by the Commission. I would like to thank our good official, Heidi Barot, and thank him once again, because this is a subject of fine science. Perhaps we had a legal situation in which, at different points in time, the legal provisions with the same numbers were in force, and it was quite difficult for one fully understanding person to orient himself. All these changes were also supported by the Commission. The Commission has decided to conclude the second reading, and if today's large Chamber decides to support the completion of the second reading, it would already be on our plenary agenda, as we confirmed on Monday, on Thursday, i.e. the third reading. This is a summary of what happened in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U96	Thank you very much. Questions. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When you discussed this so-called extension to three years, did the question arise, which has always been asked from time to time, precisely because this particular measure may suddenly once again push most mothers away from the labour market? This has always been one of the important issues of how to flexibly participate in the labour market, while at the same time being assured of these benefits. Was this question discussed in the format of this extension or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U98	Thank you. There was no direct question, but it was a 'flexicurity' issue. This draft has become flexible over the ages by various changes, and, as I mentioned, the original idea of this draft was that the parent would be able to stop for months and carry out other tasks in the meantime, but so that he would not lose this parental benefit. But specifically this idea or the problem of whether extending from this two and a half years to three years could lead people away from the labour market, the Commission did not address this wording.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U99	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U100	Thank you. I've been called the author of parental benefit. It's a bit of an exaggeration, but I really led this group that proposed this idea in 2003. In that sense, I take this subject quite personally. I am actually amazed at your answer to Urmas Kruus. After all, consideration has always been given to how work and family life can be reconciled, how it is possible to be at home in delicate times and then return to work. But now everyone has been basking on this measure and chasing this flexibility, that it is random money at any time and that it no longer has any purpose. Does the Commission no longer consider the fact that keeping women out of the labour market is a problem? So far, we thought that at some point this should be possible, but in general women could also get to work and take care of their children's money.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U101	I dare say I don't know what was amazing about that answer. The Commission will certainly discuss all aspects. But I say that, for example, this amendment, which was not supported, the amendment of the Reform Party, also spoke about the'reflection' and about that, the sum could be as much as possible. Although, as I said last time, the amendment was, in some way, interestingly, that the representative of the Reform Party despised it with the same arguments as the representatives of the Ministry, but the decision or result was exactly the opposite. Some made one suggestion, and others said exactly the opposite that it works against each other. So it is likely that this debate, as you say and describe it, will remain different either from the objectives of those who make these wordings or from the understanding of people. And we will, I think, have discussions and debates on parental benefits in the future. But as far as I can tell, the main goal of moving from this two and a half years to three years is still to increase birth rates and to have successive children. We know that having a child and becoming pregnant are not just an easy or fast process. We can be on parental leave for up to three years, in that sense it makes sense to set these times in such a way that this period is uniform. It is the idea that parents in parental benefits for successive children would not lose their parents, but that the work would then take place on at least the same basis as for the previous child.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U102	Thank you very much. More questions for you... Oh, Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U103	Word request.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U104	Then you should press the other button if you want to give a speech. Possibility of speaking. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U105	Good meeting manager! Ladies and gentlemen, and yet honourable technical staff! I really don't want to waste time with slogans or excessive draft nuances, but I promise myself a few words. And I say that the EKRE very much welcomes the initiative of a coalition partner, which fills some of the gaps in our self-established family benefits system, which is perhaps one of the best in Europe. The birth rate of our indigenous population, as you know, is higher than the birth rate of the population of foreign origin. If we also manage to regulate immigration sensibly and provide suitable jobs for our people in Estonia, so that they do not have to go abroad, then we can also stop the trend of the fall in the share of Estonians in our population, so that we can actually move to the implementation of our constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U106	Thank you very much. There is no further talk request. Let us consider the negotiations concluded and examine the amendments to bill 185. The first amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs and the opinion of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment, as well as from the Committee on Social Affairs and here too, is the proposal of the commission to take full account of the amendment. The third amendment is also proposed by the Social Committee and by the commission: take full account. No one disputes these amendments, so the second reading of the draft has ended, just as the lead committee wanted. The second reading has been completed and the process will continue as foreseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U107	We're going to the next item. This is the second reading of draft Act 206 amending the Labour Market Pathways and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U108	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Unemployment Insurance Act twice between the first and second readings. The first reading was already on 8 June and the deadline for amendments was 10 June. Before that, we also had an engagement meeting, where representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation and the Estonian Sharing Economic Union participated. At this meeting on Tuesday, June 9, we heard the opinions of these associations or associations. First of all, the Estonian Employers' Confederation expressed the opinion that this bill was good and supported its swift processing and purpose. However, some of the proposals discussed between employers and trade unions were excluded from the draft. One of the things employers put emphasis on is certainly that progress should be seen from the perspective of the impact of the forthcoming changes on the budget of the unemployment fund. Some proposals need to be more conservative as they are financially more extensive and cannot be applied in every economic situation. Employers understand the drafters and are ready to try innovation step by step. This means that all the changes that have been introduced here, they fully support and are also ready to come back to the issues that have been left out of this draft in the future. The Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions noted that they very much welcome the urgent processing of the draft and the content of the draft. It was also pointed out that this is very important precisely from the perspective of unemployment insurance, because indeed, the last change in this area has been made no more or less than in 2008. So in this sense, it is a positive step in every way. They wanted to emphasise specifically that they certainly consider it very important to allow for job breaks. The Estonian Association for the Sharing Economy said, again, that the draft is very positive. In particular, they pointed out that the platforms of the collaborative economy and the people who use them are certainly positive because we allow job opportunities. However, they suggested that the linking of work to the number of days when a person is unemployed would prevent people from working and that people with limited working capacity would therefore be partially excluded from the labour market. After that, I will come back to this subject, which concerns the number of days worked and the number of days allowed. We also discussed this in the Commission and found the best possible solution here, I hope. Then Mr Meelis Paavel, the head of the unemployment fund, said that these proposals had indeed been dealt with in times and times at their Council meeting. All the proposals that came into the draft are the result of a major debate and consensus. These things, too, which have not been reflected in this proposal, need to be negotiated and discussed. But all these proposals, whether about flexibility, changing some rates or other, can certainly come back to these issues later. And, of course, the point is that if an employee leaves work at his own request, there is still a need to think about whether and how the unemployment fund will help those people who really will leave work at their own request on this subject. There is no broad consensus on this in the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. This does not mean, however, that these issues will not be discussed and that they will not return in the autumn. The Ministry of Social Affairs, who is the initiator and leader of this draft, still considers it necessary that the changes that are in it be implemented quickly and immediately, including those that are already in place from 1 August and those that are in it from 1 September. This is certainly important. But they also pointed out that voluntary unemployment insurance definitely needed a debate. In order to be able to implement it, a separate information system needs to be developed and may take time, so their first prospective assessment is such that this issue could be returned in 2022. A decision may be made beforehand, but it may therefore take a little more time to design this information system. Then the members of the Commission also had some questions. There was an interest in the different social partners' view of the exit agreement. People who leave work voluntarily cannot apply for unemployment benefit. As I said before, in fact both employers and trade unions are positively disposed in this sense, they are ready to discuss this issue, but these solutions are different. The Ministry also said that this issue is definitely on the table and will be returned to it in the Tutukassa Council soon and soon. The Head of the Unemployment Insurance Fund expressed his hope that this issue would be resolved in the near future. In his opinion, it makes perfect sense that if a person quits, the unemployment fund could help that person in any way. It is certainly an important place to analyse, precisely what impact such a measure could have on the budget of the unemployment fund. At our second meeting on 11 June, we examined the amendments received. They came from several political groups, but the commission itself made some amendments. One amendment, which was accepted by consensus in the Committee on Social Affairs, was precisely a piece of work. While the initial draft law at first reading provided that the unemployed person could take six to five days' work breaks and then receive a fee of up to 40% of the previous year's minimum wage, the Commission considered that such a time limit could be different. One amendment from the Reform Party Group was that this time limit, the number of days, could be raised from five to ten, but during the discussions in the Commission and as a result of the compromise, we found that the sensible solution would be eight calendar days a month, but not the minimum wage for the previous year, but the minimum wage for the current year and up to 40% of it. So this order of magnitude, if I am not mistaken, is this: this year's minimum wage is EUR 584 and then 40% of it should be EUR 233 and 60 cents. The Commission has also examined the amendments. What the commission has done has also found support and will certainly come to this Chamber for further review. Other amendments can still be discussed in the large hall. The Commission took the following decisions (consensually): to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for a second reading by 16 June, to propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped, and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out a third reading of the draft on 18 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U109	Thank you very much, dear waitress. It's obvious that we won't be able to finish our hearing today at one o'clock. We have two proposals...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U110	I'll get it quick.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U111	... From the Reform Party Group and the Centre Party Group to extend today's session. I would like to put this extension to the vote now, and then we will go to the questions if you do not object. There's a deal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Central Party and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There are 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of extending the sitting, against 1, with 2 abstentions. We will continue to deal with Bill 206. I would like to ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Möldri, again, and we will start by asking questions. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! The great thing about this bill is that we really allow the officially unemployed to take a job for the first time. The draft issued by the government had two limitations: firstly, the income limit, and secondly, the number of days, i.e. five days, the officially unemployed should make their job breaks. The Union for the Sharing Economy pointed out that this was not reasonable. The Reform Party and I proposed to increase the number of these days to ten, although in fact I do not quite understand why the number of days is even needed if we already have a figure that can be done. Did you understand the difference between ten and eight days, where we sort of reached a compromise?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U113	Thank you. First of all, this amendment by the Reform Party Group was really very sympathetic. And I sincerely believe that the great hall will support it. Well, it's a question of the number of days. In my opinion, too, since there is, in fact, a border ceiling, a person cannot serve any more. A person can do even 30 days a month's work, but if he only gets an hourly fee for it, which is the minimum rate, maybe 3 euros and 48 cents, then maybe the limit doesn't come together, even though I haven't exactly calculated it. Indeed, the Ministry of the Instigator of the Bill proposed a solution so that it could be five days, their original text was so, precisely because it would be easy to monitor and that we would not in any way encourage a person to go black to work, or indeed to lose the motivation to take up full-time employment. I'm not going to read everything for a long time right now. In fact, the Ministry of Social Affairs also gave a very interesting example, where there were different calculations. I can comment after that if anyone has a wish. But indeed, that was the point of limiting it to days. And as the Ministry said, if this work-ampus measure goes well and the state sees that it has been completely profitable and reasonable, then it is not excluded that the number of days could be changed in the future. They also did not rule out that the number of days could be completely decoupled in the future if the limit still remained. It's really important to be in that limit. Now, if you make some quick thought here, why eight, not ten, then: if a person works six midway 168 hours, i.e. an average of 20 working days, which is 8 hours, then 40 percent, no 20 40%, we get 8. But if there's any scientific basis for this calculation, it's up to the big hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U114	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U115	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Did you think of the poorer people in this bill? Estonia has not met the requirements of the Social Charter. The minimum level of unemployment benefit is too low and unemployment benefit is too low. With this bill that we have before us today, people will not be saved from poverty, especially the low-paid, who will receive the first 100 days of 60%, after 40%. Now, if we look at how much this money really is, people are about to get into poverty. The other thing is unemployment benefit. Why is it only rising next year, not this year? I already know what you are going to say in the supplementary budget, but if there were any wish, there would be an opportunity to increase unemployment benefit this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U116	Thank you. Let's start at the back. Really, it has to do with the extra budget. As the Ministry said in the first-reading debate, when an additional budget comes up and Parliament adopts it, it will still be possible to implement it this year. What is included in this draft is the minimum, i.e. precisely this base percentage, the upper ceiling has not been defined. If Parliament has a will and a desire, it will also be possible to implement it before 1 January comes. We in the Commission are certainly always thinking about all social groups, including those who are least insured. I admit, and I agree, that all unemployment benefits would always want to be paid more and a higher percentage, but this is where we have to look at the steps that are actually taking place in this draft. They're mostly rising. It is certainly important to see that the whole issue is balanced in this sense, i.e. that the budget of the unemployment fund will also withstand all these changes in the long term, not only if the economy is doing well.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U117	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U118	Yes, thank you, good manager. Good chairman of the committee! The health crisis has pushed for a number of processes and different drafts, as well as this. In fact, we know that the Ministry of Social Affairs prepared for a very long time the whole of this move, the analysis of Praxis, the development plan, and the plan was only to come up with it at the beginning of next year. The draft we are discussing today has left out a number of important issues, such as extending the circle of insured persons, as well as making the level of benefits and benefits dependent on the economic cycle, which would be appropriate and cost-effective. How does the Commission know whether and when the other planned changes could reach the government and the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U119	Thank you. What you have referred to is that the draft is sympathetic to most of them, I agree. In fact, all parties point very clearly to the need to return to these issues by expanding the circle of insured persons, a flexible system, whether or not to implement it, perhaps by raising the rates. I think this is a subject worth coming back to in the autumn. And in fact, the Ministry also said in its replies that this topic will go back to the debate at the unemployment fund board in the autumn. Of course, it is always possible for the Riigikogu itself to initiate and discuss this timetable. However, I think it is reasonable that, just as all the ideas that have been incorporated into this bill, the unemployment fund has been unanimously approved by the Council. As the Ministry said, decisions will be taken by consensus in the Council. When these disputes have been debated there, when employers and workers have reached agreement on certain issues, I think that it is a reasonable and proper time to move forward with these issues. So I sincerely hope that in the autumn we will move on with this. And then we will be able to hold a debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U120	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm interested in the fact that when these jobs are implemented, what kind of target audience the lawmakers have in mind. What was their previous income, or whom, and where do we hope to find an application? Because, at first glance, this possibility of making EUR 200 and a little extra money may in many cases mean that the cost of doing this job, or doing this bite, is too high. Which target groups should benefit from this? Did their wages fall between one and the other? And the second part of my question relates to the publication today in the press of an article on the weak motivation to do certain work on a seasonal basis, precisely because there are large debt burdens, there are debts that have to be paid, and there is nothing left in the hands of the employee. At the same time, the country may not have a very clear view of how many people are unemployed. Did you address this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U122	Thank you. I'm gonna start answering from behind again. Unfortunately, I haven't read the story published in the media, I'm sure I'll read it, and then I might be able to comment on it in more detail. But I think that when we talk about these jobs and the target group, we have not defined any specific target group. But what is important is that if a person becomes unemployed, we keep him active, so that he can still go to work on account of being unemployed, so that it develops into a certain pattern of work, such as for people who have been working for a long time, and then there will also be full-time, full-time jobs. This is actually very important, because we see that it is often the work habits and this side is an obstacle to people not finding a full - time job. If you now want a more concrete example aside, then surely one good example is this: a person has a basic job, but he also has activities of interest, hobbies or projects for which he is paid. A person can work as a miner, for example, but occasionally write stories about a local newspaper and get a reward for it. Yes, if he becomes unemployed, his main job will be lost, but he will no longer have to take himself off the account because of writing these newspaper stories, but he will really be able to do some work and earn up to 233 euros and 60 cents in a month, for example, for these pieces of writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U123	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You rightly said that the Riigikogu has the opportunity to initiate debates. I would add that the Riigikogu has the opportunity to continue the discussions. It's our last week of hearings. You have said that we will come back to this very subject in the autumn. Yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs, we decided that we would return to the law on psychiatric assistance in the autumn. My question is: why do we come back to these issues in the autumn if we can calmly discuss these issues in the summer as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U125	Thank you. I guess this is where we were both actually wrong. Not only do we have the right to hold and initiate debates, but we also have the right to close these debates. We can end with results in this sense, which is a good and high-quality law. Let's be honest. Why do discussions go on in the autumn? I suppose Parliament would like to have another debate. Obviously there will be loose ends and there will be no broader consensus on these drafts. And when that consensus arrives, we can finish with these issues. I mean, don't be afraid that summer's gonna come between us. I believe, however, that by autumn we will all be willing and willing to work, and then we will be able to come back to the discussions on these issues again.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U126	Urmas Kruuse, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Perhaps this example of journalism was not the most successful. It seems very tight in that press right now. But the real point of my question was: if we adopt different laws or changes, then we assume that this will achieve something. That's why I'm a little surprised at your big generalisation. I assumed that, for example, the Ministry of Social Affairs or some other ministry has done an analysis and said that we have a situation like this at the moment, we are going to solve this problem and solve this problem or, under its influence, maybe we can get some more people into employment or get back to work. What you referred to shows rather that we are talking about long-term unemployed people whose work habits are disappearing. During the first six months, work habits should not actually disappear like this, although within six months critical moments will certainly begin to emerge.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U128	Thank you. If you're saying my example was a failure, then that's the case, isn't it? But in fact this draft, as the speakers have pointed out, was preceded by long and thorough work in the ministry for several years, including Praxis's analysis. And I say once again: job breaks are one way of actively helping the labour market back into the long-term unemployed. At the same time, it is certainly a relief measure for people who have lost their main job, but also for those who have hobbies, activities or additional specialties for which a salary can be paid. Therefore, they should not stop being on account of their unemployment, but be able to take these jobs and then find a long and comprehensive full - time job in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U129	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U130	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, There is a bill before us that has good things and there are not so good things. Surely there is a bill before us that contains things that have not been done. As we heard in the Commission from representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, including the Minister, they will come back to these matters. Sadly, not everything is done right away and at the same time. What's good about this bill? The good thing is that we actually activate people. Allowing jobs during periods of unemployment, or earning a small amount, is not really a return of the long-term unemployed to the labour market. In particular, this measure is for the person who has lost his or her job and whom we hold in connection with the labour market, even through small breaks of work, so that he or she does not become long-term unemployed. That's the measure. However, this is a positive measure because, for this measure, as well as for the timing of the unemployment period, it is possible to work in the meantime and then return to the 12-month period by receiving unemployment benefit Unfortunately, the second set of measures that are in this bill will take the money out. And if we have listened to the Prime Minister here last night and continued today, then we all understand that the wallet is never bottomless, so the state's wallet will never be bottomless. That is why the Reform Party has made such a conservative proposal, with which we really want to help people in the period of unemployment and raise their compensation rates, but only in a situation where we have a difficult economic time and people find it difficult to find work and provide incomes. However, the conservative side of our thinking is that we encourage, or encourage, people to go to work in good economic times, and the need to do so by preventing these benefits and benefits from rising excessively. That is why, which we are about to vote on, it makes sense, with your support, to get into this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U131	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! First of all, I would like to congratulate the social partners. In any case, the draft under discussion is a step forward, a step in the right direction. At the same time, however, it is a partial solution when we look at the pre-draft planning and the statements made by the Minister of Social Affairs. Repeatedly, research by the OECD and the European Commission, as well as our own National Audit Office, have highlighted the need to change the unemployment benefit system. Estonia has not yet met the requirements of the European Social Charter. After all, the minimum unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit are too limited to keep their people from falling into poverty. The government's draft will alleviate the situation, but it will not guarantee that our people, who are unemployed, will not fall into poverty from the very first day. The social setback of the crisis is the most lasting and strongest and the rise in unemployment comes with a delay. Unemployment in turn threatens poverty and, above all, risk groups, i.e. older people, people with disabilities, young people and others. Insufficient social protection for our unemployed people does not give them a breather, does not allow them to go to training, to re-skill or to look for an appropriate job, but forces them to take the first job ahead of them. Or it could lead to premature withdrawal from the labour market, or the number of early retirement pension beneficiaries has grown steadily among those who have lost their jobs, or rather looking for work abroad. When uncertainty prevails, it is the duty of the state to give a person confidence that if he falls into trouble, he will not be left alone. With loan guarantees and support measures, the state has managed to allocate nearly EUR 2 billion to the survival of companies and an additional amount is expected. Like the employer, we need to value the employee. The Social Democrats have submitted the draft to the Riigikogu and we have also made our amendments to the draft under discussion. It provides for an extension of the range of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits. The present procedure does not entitle those whose employment was terminated by agreement between the parties or at the initiative of the staff member to compensation. Unfortunately, it is not the free will of the employee that is responsible for the termination of such employment, but the compulsion, sometimes unknown. For example, in 2018, the employee's own request ended 70200 and 77000 employment relationships, i.e. largely voluntarily enforced, with the agreement of the parties. At present, 33% of all unemployed people receive unemployment benefit and 26% of all unemployed people receive unemployment benefit, while 41% of those who lose their job do not receive a cent from the unemployment fund because they simply do not qualify. However, they have also paid unemployment insurance contributions. The Social Democrats consider that insurance cover must also be extended to people who have left work formally, either by agreement or at their own request. If the employment relationship has now been terminated by agreement between the parties or at the initiative of the employee, the payment of the benefit will be postponed by 30 days of unemployment, i.e. the money will not be paid until the 31st day. The waiting limit is also in place in several other countries. It is included in our draft, and this is what we proposed in this draft. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U133	Extra time requested. Three minutes. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U134	The second and fundamental step we have taken in the draft is to increase unemployment benefit rates, i.e. the first 100 days of unemployment should be 70% of previous income and then 50% of 101 days. Of course, there must be a substantial increase in unemployment benefit. The current EUR 189 subsidy is below the deep poverty threshold and our proposal is to increase unemployment benefit to 60% of the minimum wage, or EUR 350 per month. The amount of unemployment benefit and the minimum wage allowance must not be reduced to less than EUR 350. Ladies and gentlemen, The Employment Contracts Act, which was adopted in 2008, extended the range of beneficiaries of unemployment benefit by agreement between the parties and on their own initiative to leave the country and increased the level of insurance benefits. At that time, however, these changes were not implemented and were justified by the economic crisis. This mistake must now be corrected. It is not wise to step on the same rag again. Keeping people in the labour market is also much easier than trying to pick them up later, either from the top or behind the shop. Many of our small people may be lost hopelessly by then, so that they will never find him with a matchfire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U135	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The ECRE Group is in favour of implementing this draft, including it as soon as possible. The problem with unemployment benefits is that setting them in place is quite complex. It must first be enough to help us survive difficult times, but it must not be too big to take away the motivation to find a job again. Nor has he been raised for a long time, so it is very positive in this respect: 40% of the minimum wage offered at the moment is the level that we can afford. This is certainly not enough, but in many Western countries, for example, where this level is significantly higher, it has often happened that there is no need to sit there on unemployment benefits or to move at all. Also very sensible things about job bites. If people are looking for a job that suits themselves, they do not accept every offer, but the money is scarce, these bites should help. And what's very important is that it doesn't lose out on work habits, work placements. Then a person's motivation would go away. Either five or ten in the Commission, we discussed and agreed that eight could be at the moment. Once again: Bill 206 deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U137	Erkki Keldo, please! I don't see him. Then that concludes the negotiations. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U138	I apologize to Erkki Keldo, I accidentally leaned on his remote control, and it turned on. It's not his fault. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U139	Let's get this straight. The negotiations are therefore concluded and we will begin the examination of the amendments. Amendments to draft 206. The first amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the position of the commission: consider the substance. The second amendment, from the Committee on Social Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the lead committee. Third amendment, from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, proposed by the commission: disregard. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U140	Thanks! I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U141	The amendment will be voted on. First of all, it's a sergeant. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the third amendment of bill 206 by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. Nine members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, against 52. The amendment was not supported. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Social Affairs, and the lead committee has proposed that it be fully taken into account. Fifth amendment, from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, decision of the commission: disregard. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U142	Thank you. I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on. Maybe it'll be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U143	Will it be allowed to be put to the vote immediately? Approval buzzing. So we are voting on the fifth amendment on this draft tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote. 7 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, against 54. The amendment was not supported. The next amendment is No 6, it is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and the Steering Committee has also disregarded this. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U144	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U145	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the 6th amendment on the draft, which has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and which has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 7 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this amendment, 53 against, the amendment was not supported. The seventh amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the proposal of the commission: disregard. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U146	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U147	I shall put to the vote the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Reform Party and the steering committee have been disregarded. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U148	34 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, against 51. The amendment was not supported. The eighth amendment, from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U149	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U150	I shall put to the vote the eighth draft amendment 206 made by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been rejected by the lead committee. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U151	7 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, against 52. The amendment was not supported. We have examined all the amendments. We have the commission's proposal to conclude the second reading of draft 206. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U152	Let's go to the next, fifth item. Draft Bill 195 of the Bankruptcy Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending other laws, we will begin with its first reading. Please, waitress Minister of Justice Raivo Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U153	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U154	Honourable colleagues! The rapporteur has the right to be heard, so I would now ask him to listen to what the rapporteur is saying.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U155	Yes, who has not yet heard, I have started this way: the honourable President of the Riigikogu and the honourable members of the Riigikogu! We must all acknowledge that the economic situation in the world is becoming increasingly uncertain every day. Businesses need to adapt and, unfortunately, some of them even have to stop because of a lack of sustainability. A fair understanding of the company's failings and its winding-up must be reasonable for responsible entrepreneurs and as quickly and efficiently as possible for creditors. At the moment, I am pleased to present to you the first outcome of the insolvency review by the Ministry of Justice, the draft law amending the law on bankruptcy and other laws. The aim of the draft is to make bankruptcy procedures faster, more cost-effective and transparent, to ensure that creditors receive higher payouts, to find out about illegal bankruptcies and to improve the business climate, international level and reputation of Estonia. In addition, the draft has made the necessary changes to the economic situation caused by the effects of the COVID-19 coronavirus. In the autumn, the second phase of the review will follow concerning the remaining insolvency proceedings, corporate reorganisation, debt restructuring and the release of the self-employed debtor. The second phase will also transpose the European Union's Insolvency and Recovery Directive. The length and effectiveness of bankruptcy proceedings are one of the health indicators of the business environment. Unfortunately, in Estonia, this is a rather long and inefficient process compared to neighbouring countries, especially for creditors. The average duration of bankruptcy proceedings in Estonia is three years, it takes 9% of the bankruptcy assets and the satisfaction rate of creditors is on average only 40%. In the analogue countries, Finland and Germany, the corresponding figures are 3% and 80.90% per year. One of the biggest concerns is that bankruptcies have been stolen and bankruptcy proceedings have declined, which means that there is only a shell left of the company, in which there is not enough property to find out the reasons for bankruptcy, whether it is due to the economic environment, bad management decisions, or a very malicious and careless attitude towards the company's welfare. I would like to introduce you first of all to the various measures that will reduce the massive decline in bankruptcy proceedings and the cause of malicious insolvency. I will then introduce measures to make the procedure more effective and, finally, temporary changes due to the effects of COVID-19 coronavirus. Firstly, the collapse of bankruptcy proceedings and malicious insolvency. One of the most important changes in the fight against bankruptcy and malicious insolvency is the creation of insolvency service. More than half of the bankruptcy proceedings in Estonia are declining because of the lack of resources to carry out the procedure. As a result, no one will investigate the causes of insolvency and the possibility of loss will be exploited to remove liability. Both creditors and the economic environment as a whole are suffering. The service that is to be created will help to identify the causes of insolvency, bring back assets that have been unlawfully removed from the estate and claim damages. To this end, the service can carry out specific audits and public investigations into bankruptcy proceedings. The special audit examines how to win back or restore the debtor's accounts. Service intervenes when it comes to the public interest and there is no other means. The service will be set up at the Competition Authority. As a result of the insolvency service, the business environment in Estonia becomes fairer, more reliable, including for foreign investors, as well as increased entrepreneurial security and the level of disbursements resulting from creditors' bankruptcy proceedings. One of the largest creditors of bankruptcy is the State. Public claims, in particular forgone taxes, account for 40 to 66% of claims in different estimates. In addition, there is a proposal to motivate creditors to deposit procedural costs, which is also an important but underused measure to ensure bankruptcy proceedings in the case of a bankrupt debtor. We will make it easier for the creditor to recover the costs incurred in bankruptcy proceedings from the bankruptcy property. In the future, the creditor will also be allowed to claim the remuneration of the interim administrator and the payment of the deposit. Under current law, the creditor does not have the option of doing so. In order to prevent bankruptcy proceedings from falling, it is important that there is always a person responsible for the timely filing of the application for bankruptcy. As a general rule, it shall be the responsibility of a member of the Governing Board. If there is no board member, no one is responsible for filing for bankruptcy under the current law. In order to protect the interests of creditors, it is proposed to extend the obligation to submit a bankruptcy application to shareholders and board members responsible for the appointment of directors in the absence of a management board. If there is a Governing Board, the persons named by the latter shall not be liable. In the case of a debtor who is a legal person, more precise conditions are laid down for the arrival of insolvency, which will help the parties to identify more clearly and more easily the moment when the insolvency occurs. For example, insolvency is expected where enforcement proceedings reveal that the debtor has no assets to meet his obligations, or where the debtor's net assets are below the amount prescribed by law. The debtor shall be able to demonstrate that there is no insolvency. The prerequisites for insolvency will help address the problems of late filing of applications for bankruptcy. Assumptions are essential for the ex post identification of the moment of insolvency, for example when an action for redemption or a claim for damages is brought. The redemption of assets is important from the low asset procedures, especially where the asset has been removed. However, the debtor often does not have enough time to pay the state fee for the readmission action. It is therefore proposed to exempt the insolvency practitioner from the payment of the state fee when an action for redemption is brought. In practice, it has proved to be a problem for the shareholders or shareholders of the debtor who is a legal person to take control of the bankruptcy proceedings through fictitious transactions. Their aim is to maximise their own profits, which are inevitably harmful to other creditors. The Bill limits the voting rights of these creditors in bankruptcy proceedings. Secondly, ensuring that insolvency proceedings are carried out more quickly, at lower costs and with a higher quality. In order to improve the efficiency and coherence of insolvency proceedings, the specialisation of courts in insolvency matters will be increased. The jurisdiction of insolvency proceedings of debtors who are legal persons will be transferred to the Harju and Tartu County Courts and it will be ensured that judges specialising in insolvency will be held in all county courts. In the interests of speeding up the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings, the procedure for the protection and recognition of claims is being redesigned, which is the most time-consuming part of the procedure. At present, the protection of claims takes place at the appointed creditors' meeting and disputes over claims are settled in separate legal proceedings. However, according to the amendment, the protection of claims will continue to take place in writing and will be recognised in court in one procedure. This will ensure that the judge handling the case has a comprehensive view of the whole matter. The mandatory nature of the statement of objections will also be introduced and the list of claims recognised without protection will be supplemented, resulting in a reduction of disputes over claims. Overall, there will be a significant reduction in the volume of disputes relating to the recognition of claims and a rapid and effective filing and protection of claims in bankruptcy proceedings over a period of four and a half months up to seven months. In practice, many questions have also been raised by the remuneration of administrators, which is an important aspect in terms of the cost and quality of the procedure. On the one hand, it is considered that the charges are high, on the other hand, that they are too low. As a result of the draft, the development of the administrator's remuneration will become more transparent and predictable. For example, at the beginning of the procedure, the administrator must draw up an expected action plan and also keep a staff record in his work. The individual costs of the administrator will be included in the administrator's fees in the future. In addition, the use of the administrator will be made more up-to-date by linking the hourly rate and the maximum level of remuneration to be reimbursed from State resources to the minimum monthly wage. The current ceiling for the hourly fee of the administrator has been unchanged since 2004. For reasons of expediency, the possibility of continuing the execution of assets in enforcement proceedings is also created when the temporary administrator is appointed or declared bankrupt. According to the law in force, enforcement proceedings shall accordingly be suspended or terminated. As a general rule, in bankruptcy proceedings, the administrator begins from the beginning with the same operations, which in turn is not procedural economic. The continuation of enforcement proceedings may also be necessary to preserve the value of the property, for example in the case of perishable assets. The property would be a property of bankruptcy. In order to speed up the procedure, a more precise time frame is also laid down for the resolution of disputes concerning the votes assigned to creditors at the general meeting. In practice, this will take too long, the procedure will stand behind important decisions. The draft provides that the court is to settle the dispute at the same meeting or, in more complex cases, at the latest on the next working day. The abolition of the obligation to hold a hearing on the appointment of a temporary administrator and on the review of the application for bankruptcy will also help to reduce the time required for the proceedings. In many proceedings, the temporary administrator can be appointed and declared bankrupt in a written procedure which is quicker and less burdensome for the parties and for the court. The appeal against the declaration of bankruptcy in the Supreme Court is also restricted. The right of appeal shall be restricted in the interests of procedural economics and in order to reduce the burden on the court. Announcement of a bankruptcy shall take place without an action in proceedings where the court has an obligation to collect independently the necessary information for the settlement of the case. The Court also relies, inter alia, on the report of the interim administrator when declaring bankruptcy. The temporary administrator shall identify the debtor's assets and liabilities and assess the debtor's insolvency. Therefore, after the Court's substantive and broad examination, it is not necessary to have litigation at three levels. In addition, the Supreme Court can only make a legal assessment. In order to guarantee the rights of parties to proceedings, the amendment provides that the district court is to issue a reasoned order in the course of its proceedings. The draft proposes to ensure that the debtor's obligation to contribute is ensured in such a way as to respect the privileges of self-incrimination. It shall be ensured that, without the consent of the person concerned, the information published by him or her may not be used in the criminal proceedings against him or her. The amendment is important because obtaining information is critical for the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings, and it is the debtor himself who is predominantly the owner of the information. In addition, the number of votes of the creditor shall be aligned with that of the creditor's protected and outstanding claims. The aim is to ensure that creditors whose claim has been satisfied no longer participate in decisions relating to bankruptcy proceedings. The decision-making process will be more effective and more relevant to the interests of the creditors concerned. Thirdly, the impact of COVID-19 on the economic situation is subject to changes. In view of the sudden and sudden change in the economic situation caused by the effects of the COVID-19 and the corona virus, the draft proposal proposes to allow for a temporary modification of the recovery plan and flexibility of the debt restructuring plan. The current law on reorganisation does not allow for any change to the orderly resolution plan, and it is too difficult to change the debt restructuring plan. The amendment of the plan must be necessary in order to achieve the objective of reorganisation. In addition, the suspension of payments under the orderly resolution plan shall be granted for a maximum period of three months, which may be extended for a further period of up to three months if necessary. This is a temporary possibility and an application can be submitted until the end of 2020. In addition, a number of proposals will be made to address other legal and practical problems. A specific regulation of the bankruptcy proceedings of the estate will be established with a view to overcoming legislative and practical bottlenecks. The current law does not have a legal framework that takes account of the specific features of bankruptcy proceedings, creating difficulties in interpretation and uneven practices. There is therefore a need for a clearer legal framework, which would end with transparent and more efficient procedures and take into account the specificity of the bankruptcy procedure for the estate as a pool of assets. The automatic application of the business ban on a self-sustaining debtor will be abolished. The refusal may subsequently be applied by the court or tribunal as the case may be. The procedure for the selection of the members of the bankruptcy panel will be amended so that the vote of smaller creditors will also be more strongly represented in the selection process. There will be an opportunity for a conventional downsizing of loans, which will give greater flexibility to market participants. It is stipulated that the creditor who does not have a personal claim on the debtor is not the creditor of the bankruptcy. The jurisdiction of the county court to resolve disputes concerning the recognition of public claims is specified. The amendment is important in the context of the reform of the procedure for the protection and recognition of claims, which aims to look at all claims in a complex manner by the court handling the bankruptcy proceedings and thus to ensure recognition of the claim significantly faster. Provision shall be made for an additional consequence of the declaration of bankruptcy, according to which proceedings relating to the debtor's bankruptcy proceedings shall be suspended until the administrator decides to initiate proceedings. This will provide the administrator with a knowledge of the procedure and sufficient time to decide. The role of creditors in the approval of the administrator will be increased, leading the court and the creditor to greater cooperation in the choice of the administrator, and both will increase their trust in the chosen administrator. The creditor's right to set off the claim with a pledge-backed claim shall be specified at the sale price of the pledge at the time of acquisition of the pledge. Unreasonable deadlines for the exclusion of assets from bankruptcy and sharing of joint assets will be abolished. Renewing references to the recast insolvency regulation, correcting the wording of Section 18 (2) of the Bankruptcy Act in such a way that the withdrawal requirement is subject to the submission rather than the expiry date. Orders to pay the costs of bankruptcy proceedings shall be regulated. The scope of the investigation principle of the court hearing the bankruptcy proceedings is specified. Provision shall be made for the administrator's remuneration and the amount due to be deposited in a court's deposit before the order closing the proceedings enters into force. It is specified that the creditor who applies for bankruptcy also has the obligation to lodge a claim. The competence of the Ministry of Justice to impose disciplinary sanctions shall be abolished. And entry into force. Amendments relating to the effects of COVID-19 and corona virus are urgent and will enter into force, as proposed, after the day following publication in the Official Journal of the State. These are the possibility of amending the orderly resolution plan, the simplified procedure for amending the debt restructuring plan, the abolition of the requirement to hold a mandatory preliminary hearing, the possibility of reviewing the application for bankruptcy in the written procedure, the abolition of the automatic prohibition of business for a self-employed debtor, the limitation of the right to appeal to the bankruptcy order, and the acceleration of the appointment of creditors' votes. In other respects, the Act would enter into force from 1 January 2021. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U156	Thank you very much, Minister. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U157	Thank you. Dear Minister, The bill has been prepared in your ministry. Would you once again say more than three of the most important, important points in this bill? What is it that needs to be put in here for sure?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U158	I'm sure what I started with was the creation of an insolvency service. The example is taken from our neighbouring Finland, where it is estimated that the insolvency service has led to a significant acceleration in the time of bankruptcy proceedings and an increase in the amount to be repaid to creditors. In itself, the audit team has also assessed it as an effective form of work. That's a first. I would certainly like to highlight the specialization of the courts, which is the concentration of bankruptcy proceedings of legal persons in the county courts of Harju and Tartu, with the aim of ensuring that there is a stronger specialization in bankruptcy cases in these courts. Because bankruptcy cases are sometimes very complicated, and the judges who deal with them must have continuous work experience and appropriate preparation. I would certainly also like to highlight the various aspects of the procedure, for example, how to give more strength to creditors by the fact that the creditor also has the right to file for bankruptcy. In addition, the obligation to publish bankruptcy will be extended. At present, according to the law, this is basically the responsibility of the board, but we know that there are cases in practice where there are no management boards, and then, according to the law, as no one has this obligation to file for bankruptcy and the application for bankruptcy is not submitted in time. As a result, the subsequent bankruptcy proceedings will become essentially empty, i.e. there will be no longer any assets to recover from it. It will now be extended to shareholders in the case of private limited liability companies and to the Council in the case of public limited liability companies. In the case of public limited liability companies, there must also be a board of directors, and both the board of directors and shareholders have an obligation to appoint a board of directors. However, if they do not fulfil their obligation, they must be responsible for filing for bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I do. I commend you this time. I have sometimes been quite critical of some of the suggestions, but this time I really applaud the fact that this bill has arrived in the Chamber, as today's situation is in fact quite traumatic in circumstances where only 40% of the claims are met. Let us set Finland aside 88% and OSCD 80% and see, in reality, not a misleading claim when it is said that the debtor's interests are better protected than the interests of creditors. But my question concerns insolvency service. Can the insolvency service also take the place of the insolvency practitioner? Or is it merely carrying out certain actions in bankruptcy proceedings, such as the recovery of unlawfully removed assets, etc.? If the insolvency service is generally financed from the state budget, there is also a hint in the explanatory memorandum that it can still recover certain expenses in bankruptcy proceedings. How are these expenses compensated?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U160	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U161	Thank you for your question. Bankruptcy does not replace the insolvency administrator. And the bankruptcy service will be set up, as I was saying, right, according to the current plans, at least to the Competition Board, but he's a completely independent body there. It also came from discussing whether to make a separate new state institution, but this thought could not be supported, and then it was decided to build it into an existing body. The size of the bankruptcy service is initially planned for only three to four people. I'm sorry! Insolvency service, of course. Since we're talking about bankruptcy, words get a little messy. So, the size of the insolvency service is planned for three to four people, one is the leader and then is the corresponding experts. It is clear that their procedural capacity has certain limits, precisely in terms of this size. And there are conditions that must be fulfilled. Firstly, there must be a public interest in a particular bankruptcy. Bankruptcy is fading, this public-interest bankruptcy is fading, i.e. the lack of resources and assets for bankruptcy proceedings, and, as there is no asset, the motivation of the insolvency administrator to carry it out is very small. However, since the procedure is carried out specifically from state resources, there is a possibility to ensure its continuation. These are the main arguments. Yes, indeed, the insolvency administrator and the insolvency service complement each other; they do not replace each other. And this Insolvency Service is also a partner to law enforcement authorities, i.e. they can either carry out their own audits or order their own expertise in carrying out insolvency proceedings. If, for example, there is evidence or evidence of a criminal offence, they will of course also communicate this information to the law enforcement authorities competent to conduct criminal proceedings. I mean, they don't have the right to conduct criminal proceedings on their own. I don't know if you got the final answer now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U162	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with this issue of insolvency service. You have asked for and received a great many views and opinions on this draft. It is striking that the Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators actually wanted this service to come to their house. Maybe you can explain this a little bit. Will this insolvency service be like a state institution and how will it be manned? And secondly, in the committee, I may have asked once if I am not wrong, define the public interest that will make this insolvency service work.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U164	Thank you for your question. This public interest is a subjective definition; there is no clear legal definition. The public interest may arise in different circumstances and the assessment of these circumstances will determine whether there is a public interest or not. The service of insolvency is indeed a state institution. It is precisely for this purpose, or as a result, that this service of insolvency is not set up with the bailiffs and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators, because it is not a national institution. However, the so-called mandate for any monitoring and inspection is still due to the exercise of state authority. That is why it has to be an institution of the state and not an additional capacity for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U165	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U166	Thank you. Good minister! I'm trying to go over it now, maybe, and I'm going to question it just for the sake of clarity. I am once again in the same service of insolvency and in the public interest. I understand, in itself, that this is a very good institution and probably also a very necessary institution, but the launch of this procedure in the insolvency service is in the public interest, that is like one of the preconditions. A moment ago, you said that this public interest is not very well defined, but if I now read the draft law itself, it turns out that, first of all, it is precisely through public interest that this insolvency service is involved in carrying out various audits and bankruptcies. The law also states that the only necessary fact is that the debtor does not have enough money. Then, in the explanatory memorandum, the law says that non-reliance on money is a public interest, that is to say, a public interest. That's where my question comes from. Am I to understand that this is precisely the case that, in the event of a lack of money, or the risk of a loss of money, it is an entirely sufficient public interest that triggers proceedings in the service of insolvency?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U167	Thank you for your question. Certainly not the lack of money is the only interest. This is precisely the case when there is a bankruptcy process of great public interest. An example is the recent case of the bankruptcy of an e-shop, an e-shop. There were a lot of interested parties, but since the claims for damages were there from a few hundred euros to a few thousand euros, they were simply not interested. This damage seemed too small for an individual interested or interested party to go into bankruptcy proceedings. This is certainly an example where there is a public interest, but the debtor himself, the e-commerce store or the e-shop itself, does not have this property. This is an example where this service should certainly have intervened then, because there were hundreds and thousands of creditors there, but, on their own, they were not interested in proceeding there, so that would have been a function of the state. So it is not only the case that the debtor is broke, but actually there are other aspects. And so-called maliciousness must also be here.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U168	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U169	Good manager! Good waitress! I read here that, as a result of a long analysis and consideration, it was decided to set up insolvency service at the Ministry of Justice. The example was taken from the Finnish bankruptcy ombudsman, who happened to be established in 1995. My question: how long did the Ministry of Justice analyse it and weigh on all the 25 years that have passed? Why was it considered for so long, or how long did it take before this reasonable decision was reached?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U170	Thank you for a very interesting question. I really don't remember the history of the Justice Department's consideration, I've only had a year of my own office as Minister of Justice. But in fact, this idea input or idea received support and confirmation in the course of this insolvency review. The review committee or the people who did this review also appreciated the effectiveness of this Finnish example. They found that yes, it's good, it's effective, and proposed that he be included in the final conclusions of the insolvency review. And now, from these conclusions, this draft has been drawn up. But I really don't know what the debate has been on and how long it has been going on, and I am indebted to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U171	Toomas Kivimägi, second question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U172	Thank you, Honourable Manager. Honourable Minister! My second question concerns the costs of the insolvency administrator. When you read the draft, quite a lot of changes are planned here. I have understood this idea in such a way that the motivation of the insolvency administrator to participate in bankruptcy proceedings should be increased. On the other hand, if we look at the source, the costs of the insolvency administrator are currently 9%, while, for example, in Germany, the costs are 3%. As a result of these changes, will the costs of the insolvency practitioner increase, or is it intended to reduce these costs rather? Are there any links between the remuneration of the insolvency practitioner and the level of satisfaction of claims?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U173	Thank you. The remuneration of the insolvency practitioner is clearly linked to the level of satisfaction of claims. Are the fees of the insolvency practitioner increasing or the costs? I assume that they will not increase, at least here the audit committee has not highlighted this as an additional fact. The only addition now in the draft is that these "current costs', office expenses can no longer be recovered separately by the insolvency administrator; they are already included in the insolvency administrator's remuneration. In addition, in order to make bankruptcy proceedings more transparent and thus to speed up the procedure, the insolvency practitioner must, at the beginning of the proceedings, draw up an initial plan or plan, which will then be known to creditors and, of course, debtors, so that there are targets to be set for which, in what time and with which point, to pursue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U174	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U175	Thank you. Honourable Minister! What is going on with this bill is certainly a very necessary institution. However, the scope of this institution's powers remains somewhat open to me. Will they and will they be able to carry out some kind of investigation into a particular bankruptcy case? Can they demand bank statements, for example, can they demand the accounting documents of this bankrupt company, for example? Will these tasks include, for example, identifying some obvious violation, say, the initiation of a criminal case? What exactly will this institution do, and what is the scope of its powers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U176	Indeed, in examining the reasons, the means are to carry out specific audits and public investigations. To this end, the service can carry out or commission expertise and use national supervision measures to obtain the necessary information. For example, they have the right to question persons, examine premises, documents, examine their original data, take copies with them. This is again a bit of a copy, because these are analogous measures that the Finnish Ombudsman, of whom we talked here earlier, can use. So there are surveillance measures and powers. We don't create a service without powers and tools. Of course, if they detect an offence, they will not only have an opportunity, but will also be obliged as a public authority to inform the relevant judicial authorities who are already dealing with criminal proceedings and criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U177	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue on the same issue of insolvency service. Yes, it seems to be a necessary institution and would help to clarify the picture. But the question arises. One of the priorities of the current government, as I understand it, has, at least in words, been the implementation of state reform, the thinning of the country. Why has the Competition Authority been elected? Does the service have to be based on existing people, or is there a plan to grow a state apparatus? And if there's a plan to grow it, then why the Competition Authority? Why not the National Audit Office, which should have very good experience in the control function, probably also have a resource? Because it is still being tried to put them on a completely different task, which is not too much to do with their work so far, and the Prime Minister has said that he thinks it is a very good idea. Maybe there's a resource there and you could consider it. Was it considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U179	Thank you for your question. In this case, however, it is assumed that the three or four people who create this service of insolvency are, in addition, a resource to be hired and recruited. Alternatives were also discussed, such as where this insolvency service could still be plated. For example, we were talking about what we were already talking about, so that we could make it to the bailiffs and the House of Bankruptcy Administrators. However, as I explained earlier, this is a matter of national supervision and, consequently, of a national institution. It was also discussed that he could be with the Tax and Customs Board, for example, but in reality a very large part of these requirements are those of the State, which is specifically dealt with by the Tax and Customs Board, or the state tax debts. Here, however, there is simply 'competitiveness' in the sense that the same authority is involved in the recovery of debts and claims, and the same authority is also processing this process, which is why the Tax and Customs Board has fallen out. Yes, why he wasn't planned for the National Audit Office, I owe the answer to that. It was proposed to move forward with the idea of creating this service with the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U180	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U181	Thank you very much. Good minister! You have rightly said in advance that the big objective of bankruptcy proceedings is primarily to protect creditors, and you have pointed out that it is important to comply with the obligation to file for bankruptcy, because if it is filed too late or something worse happens, then bankruptcy proceedings may become empty, no money, etc. That's very right. Now the question is how to motivate and protect creditors. Motivation must be made for debtors to file for bankruptcy. We have deadlines, within a certain period of time, you have to submit, and if you don't, you should have some strong motive to do so. In the past, we had § 385 of the Penal Code, which said that if you do not file for bankruptcy in time, you will be punished, you will be punished. Weird reform of the Penal Code now took place in 2014-2015, which greatly excited and weakened our legal order, including the abolition of this paragraph and the removal of the coercive motive for filing for bankruptcy. Question: is the law that we are looking at strengthened the motive for filing for bankruptcy when a person is in bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U182	Thank you for your question. Well, these bankruptcies arise for different reasons. One is when there is a so-called malicious, criminal bankruptcy. Well, what are you trying to do about it? It's the goal to cause bankruptcy and thus get rid of the debt. The second aspect is when there is a bad economic environment and the company simply goes bankrupt. There is already a question of management decisions, whether it is wise to foresee that the risk of bankruptcy has arrived and to make this statement on time, or whether there is such unnecessary expectation that additional investments will come or be able to withdraw themselves from this bankruptcy situation, and then it will be delayed by filing for bankruptcy. But in all this late time, some economic activity is going, negative so-called minus activity, and the potential bankruptcy assets from a particular company are gradually decreasing. So the circumstances are different, but the additional measure is now that creditors can also file for its bankruptcy. However, this is not an obligation for them, because the creditor does not need to know the economic situation of a potential debtor or of a particular failing body so well as to be able to assess whether or not there is a pre-insolvency situation. On the other hand, yes, the creation of this state's capacity in the form of this same service may also, in certain cases, encourage us to think about how things are. The knowledge is that procedural capacity is increasing; the state also puts it under its shoulders, i.e. it is more seriously viewed and able to assess its actual situation, more adequately looked at it. These are the assumptions. But yes, as I said, when it comes to malicious bankruptcy, the aim of which is to get rid of debts through bankruptcy proceedings, whether these measures add up very much, then there will still be subsequent state intervention and sanctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U183	Peter Ernits, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U184	Good manager! Good waitress! I read here that the average annual debt of the so-called Harju companies is about 34 million, with 40% in front of the country. According to the small adjustment, in this 25-year period, the state is 300 million strong against the pants of the Finns and more than 600 million from the creditors. My question is who is responsible. Or is no one responsible? Twenty-five years have been missed compared to the northern neighbors, either out of stupidity or consciously.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U185	Thank you for your question. I really don't know how to answer this. I don't take responsibility. But should there perhaps now be a committee to find out who did this, in that respect, I am indebted to the answer. I think that in Estonia the ministries and agencies have worked in good faith. After all, attempts have been made to improve legislative acts to make our business landscape more attractive and also procedures more efficient, faster. Well, 25 years is the time, barely more, what our country has existed. This wisdom is evidently coming with wisdom, as is the case with man in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U186	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, if we continue here a little bit, we know how long private business, free private business, has now been operating here in a time of regaining independence. A comparison with Finland is undoubtedly necessary, but the initial conditions are still very, very different. My question concerns the fact that the example of establishing insolvency service has been taken from Finland, and I am constantly haunted by this public interest. Do you have any good examples that can help you better understand what this public interest is? Is that when the newspaper writes or someone on the show says, "Hey, there's something wrong with it?" Some of these practical examples would make matters clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U188	Thank you. Yes, one serious argument may indeed be that a subject has reached the media. I think it may be an entirely one indicator that it is in the public interest, unless it is a purchased article. I gave an example of this online store, which is going bankrupt. There are very many creditors, but these sums are so small and they are not interested in supporting this bankruptcy procedure there, for example, to deposit their money there for bankruptcy proceedings to keep it alive because the debtor was unearned. There are examples. Or there is certainly one aspect that I have already referred to, where shareholders turn themselves through internal transactions, the role of 'creditors', the role of 'big creditors', and thereby gain an advantage over other creditors. This is also an example for us to take from a rather recent time, with the body of a milkcombinate. These are certainly those places where there is a perfectly clear justification for such a public interest. In this case, the same service can start tracking different transactions, turning back these transactions, restoring accounts, etc. These are, in my opinion, cases like this. There are certainly no hundreds or thousands of them, they may be lonely or dozens, but in this case they are still big bankruptcies, where large creditors' money is also involved, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U189	Last question, Heiki Kranich. Short question, short answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U190	Thank you. The short question is: when will you see this new institution working? And will he only deal with new bankruptcy proceedings that begin, or will his powers extend to bankruptcy proceedings that are already under way?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U191	Thank you for your question. In order for the law to enter into force, we have foreseen 1 January 2021. One of the prerequisites for insolvent service is, of course, the availability of a resource. This means that the state budget currently has an annual cost of EUR 600000, of which about half is personnel costs and the rest are the same audits and expert analyses. So, in the autumn, when the state budget procedure comes, money is expected to emerge on that line and its formation could start from 1 January 2021. Well, actually, from 2 January, I guess. If there's money, why wait, we'll have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U192	Thank you very much, Minister. The meeting is full, and there are no more questions for you. We will hear the accompanying report tomorrow and we will continue to address this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-06-16_U194	Thank you. Court adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 2 p.m.
