ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is a pleasure to have such an abundance of participation. We will begin the extraordinary plenary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened in accordance with § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Law on the Home and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, at the time and on the agenda requested by 88 members of the Riigikogu. First, however, as usual, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U2	President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! On behalf of and in favour of the Socialists, I will hand over a draft decision aimed at launching the necessary welfare reform already in 2021. According to our draft decision, the government needs to develop solutions to ensure dignified ageing and to alleviate the numerous pains associated with care and care. It is already this autumn that legislative changes to this effect will have to be adopted, because only then will the transition to a human-centred and much better funded care arrangement begin in the new year. With regard to coronavir, in a very short time, the government was able to develop and implement the necessary rescue packages to boost entrepreneurship and the economy. I'm sure that's commendable. At the same time, people who need help and care are in a very difficult situation, but whose loved ones are unemployed or who have reduced wages. All necessary research and other data are available at the Ministry of Social Affairs, starting with the World Bank analysis and ending with the principles for establishing a long-term care system approved at the beginning of this year. Today, we are more hopeful and hopeful than we did in February this year, when we tabled a draft similar decision, but which did not receive 51 votes in this Chamber. The statement of the Congress of the Central Party gave us the courage to present the bill once more. I quote: 'The launch of a healthy long-term care system and further support for the social sector are essential to guaranteeing a decent life for our people. ' Finally. We do not know what autumn brings about coronavir, but we do know that our elderly and other people in need, our carers and those in need of care, need help now, no later than the beginning of next year, and not knowing that help is ever coming. I believe that the government, of course, if it wishes to, will be able to find solutions to the welfare problems in the autumn as quickly as it found a solution in spring to boost business and the economy. This is needed in order for the weaker to be supported. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U3	Thank you. I am on behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu... Ay, any more wishes? Siret Eagle, please! It must have been an accidental push on the button. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and the Management Board decides to process it in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Next, we'll run a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu are present, 18 are missing. According to § 52 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Riigikogu establishes an extraordinary session by a majority of the working time. I will put to the vote the proposal of the Riigikogu Board to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. Please take a stand and vote. There are 81 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Before we start processing this application today, I will recall the rules of procedure that we are following today. First, the presentation of the drafters shall be up to 20 minutes, then the presentation of the representative of the commission shall also be up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may submit one oral question to each of the two rapporteurs and then the negotiations will take place. Representatives of political groups and committees, as well as members of the government, may take the floor. The Chancellor of Justice is also entitled to speak. Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu has expressed his wish to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U4	So let's start with the reports. The first item is the statement by the Riigikogu, the first reading of the draft 223 in support of democracy and civil society by 88 members of the Riigikogu, which remains the only one. The rapporteur is Marko Mihkelson, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, Today's extraordinary sitting has been convened by 88 members of the Riigikogu who signed the draft statement 'In support of democracy and civil society in Belarus'. The Estonian Parliament rarely makes statements with an international focus, which increases the weight of each statement. This is also the case with our statement today, because the Riigikogu cannot remain silent at a time when a democratic and peaceful popular revolution is taking place in our immediate neighbourhood against a violent dictatorship. It is also symbolic to our statement that today, 29 years ago, on 25 August 1991, the Belarusian Declaration of Independence entered into force. The brave uprising of the Belarusians for the third week against the dictatorship of Alaksandr Lukashenko has a number of possible consequences at the same time. Current and future events may depend on whether Belarus remains an independent and sovereign state, whether the Western world can be trusted in the defence of democracy and civil liberties, whether Russia will swallow up Belarus and restore the empire, and whether Estonia and the other Baltic states, together with their allies, will be able to discourage the expansion of Russia's aggression policy. Let us be honest, Belarus has not done much to us in the last few decades. To Estonia's foreign policy radar, Belarus, unlike Ukraine, is more wrong than has been constantly in our field of view. Belarus is a country of the Eastern Partnership of the European Union, but it has been difficult to communicate with it. This has been explained by Lukashenka's established and Kremlin-based aura. The apocalypse and satisfaction of the Belarusians with apparent stability and prosperity have kept Lukashenko in power for 26 years and have not allowed the various opposition forces to find wider support. Anyone who has dared to stick his head out has been killed, arrested, tortured or expelled. The kidnapping and killing of Yuri Zahharenko, former Chairman of the Central Electoral Commission, Viktor Hanchari, and Anatoly Krassovski, former Minister of the Interior, in 1999 are crimes of the Lukashenka regime that should never expire. The impunity is giving birth to the new violence that we have experienced in Belarus again these days. However, the new outbreak of violence that is completely inappropriate in modern Europe may no longer save Lukashenko. As the presidential elections approached this time, it was clear that there has been a quiet change in Belarusian society, which no one has noticed. The free expression of the mind of hundreds of thousands of people from the energy of the new generation across the country shows that the Lukashenka era is coming to an end. All of a sudden, people have had enough of the sole authority of the former collective farm leader. On 9 August and the ensuing protests, civil society in Belarus issued a storm warning: Lukashenko must leave and the future of the country must be decided by free and democratic elections. Lukashenko tried to use intimidation tactics both before and after the elections. The arrest of hundreds of journalists, activists and presidential candidates did not nullify the Belarusians' willingness to show Lukashenko the red card. Obviously and massively falsified elections were followed by a rapid and natural protest by the people. Afraid of repeating the fate of former Ukrainian President Yanukovych, Lukashenko immediately applied mass violence to disband protests. Thousands were arrested, many mercilessly beaten and tortured. According to various data, dozens of people who have been arrested and who have no information about their fate have so far disappeared. It was only this afternoon that I was able to find out from independent sources in Belarus that at least 15 people have died as a result of these violent attacks. The presidential elections, which most likely won the Svetlana Tsikhanovskaya, were forced to leave the country because of threats to the safety of their children, but it has not stopped the wave with a false mandate against Lukashenko, which seems to be gaining more and more strength. No matter how complex and dangerous or how long this road may be, the national awakening of Belarus before our eyes has far greater weight than could be expected from the subdued reflections of the international and, in part, of our media. Why is the future of Belarus important to us, and why does the Riigikogu make a statement today? Ladies and gentlemen, Belarus can actually only have two choices: either to maintain independence and to establish a democratic rule of law based on a self-conscious civil society, belonging to Europe, or to lose sovereignty, to become a province within the Russian Empire. In the latter case, this would also mean suffocating the civil society that has come out of it. The choice, of course, can be made by Belarusians themselves. The first road can only be born through free elections and with the support of a democratic world. The second road requires submission to violence and delegation of decisions to the Kremlin. From the point of view of Estonia, what choice the people of Belarus make is crucial. If the first scenario remains, there is a serious hope that the latest model of the Russian Empire, founded on the authoritarianism and violence of the Czechs, will fall apart once and for all. In December 1991, Belarus's primitive forest in Belovezhje was the place where the fate of the Soviet Union was decided under President Yeltsin's leadership. Belarus may now have the opportunity to beat the last pound into the coffin of the Russian Empire. Then, without Belarus, there is no hope in Russia to restore the former great power. However, it is obvious that the Kremlin will not give up so easily. We do not know what Russia's intervention has been before, during and after the presidential elections. The mere introduction of the Wagner bandite game by a private security company under Russian military intelligence suggests widespread manipulation. Russia's intervention in Belarus has so far been more framed, political technological and informational than the introduction of strikebreakers on national television. The Russian leadership may find the confusion appropriate because Lukashenko has not been the most obedient vassal. At the same time, the bravery of Belarusians to resist violence has aroused their national identity and patriotism, which may no longer be compatible with the great intentions of Russia. Russia has been panicked every time in the territories of the former empire, people become more aware of their rights and demand freedoms. Every time, Russia's aggression against these countries has followed. This was the case in Georgia in 2008 to prevent the enlargement of NATO to the South Caucasus, and this was the case in 2014 to prevent Ukraine from shifting to closer relations with the European Union. Will the same happen to Belarus in 2020? In the case of Belarus, perhaps it is even more critical. If the people of Belarus win over the dictator, then people in Khabarovsk and elsewhere in Russia can also understand that there may be other choices for their future if it is offered by President Putin, who has just received dictatorial powers, with the amendments of the constitution. I doubt the Kremlin would be willing to put up with that scenario. Russia has already accused the Western countries of interfering with what is happening in Belarus, and the propagandist, Margarita Simonjan, calls on the social media to send green men to order in the neighbouring country. Lukashenko has brought his armed forces under the NATO-Negative sign and, at the same time, to full combat readiness to stay away from the people's revolution. A dictator who is complicating his own borders, grappling with the last straw, may be a threat to our regional security. It is therefore important to monitor closely the activities of the Belarusian armed forces at the borders of NATO Member States in order to avoid possible provocations in the bud. Belarus is strategically crucial to Russia, which has a long hybrid attack on the West. Territorially, the control of Belarus in Russia makes it possible to endanger NATO's ore movement of 104 kilometres, separating Belarus from the Kaliningrad region on the Polish and Lithuanian border by blocking it, which would mean for the allies that land connections with the Baltic countries will be lost. There are also a number of important military factories in Belarus and a powerful pre-warning radar located near Hantsavich, operated by the 474th radio technical unit of the Russian space forces. The latter makes it possible for ballistic missiles to be launched from Western Europe to be detected in Russia, and, more importantly, NATO submarines in the North Atlantic can be monitored. Russia knows what it wants and fears, and is therefore prepared for anything, including military intervention. But what are the Western countries ready for? In the first hours following the presidential elections in Belarus, when the blood of peaceful demonstrators was already shed on the streets of Minsk, the silence of the international media was deafening. Otherwise, CNN, which was so news-sensitive, couldn't even compile a column message for several hours. The same sluggishness was also reflected at political level, which showed the weakness or even lack of policy to date. I am not surprised that in many Western countries it was not until those days that Belarus was searched for on the map. Unfortunately, this was proved, for example, by Commissioner Thierry Breton, who believes that Belarus is not in Europe. The courage of the Belarusian people is testing the credibility of the European Commission, which calls itself a geopolitical one, especially when the people of a country in Europe are seeking legislation and freedoms that are compatible with Europe. Lithuania and the other Baltic countries and Poland's active involvement in the reflection and focus of what is happening in Belarus shows that the European Union is still able to correct its policies in August. Discussions between both foreign ministers and Heads of State and previous decisions on non-recognition of elections and preparation of sanctions against natural persons are steps in the right direction. Close cooperation with Britain, Canada and the United States is also important here. The European Union must not now lose its pace. Alongside the first steps, a clear message should be formulated in the near future for the people of Belarus and its serious intentions should be demonstrated with real help in reaching new and free elections, in supporting civil society, the economy and sovereign integrity. At the same time, it must be taken into account that the journey will be long and will inevitably lead to a tightening of relations, including with Russia. Estonia and the other Baltic countries certainly have a special role to play here, because our future depends on the future of Belarus. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu has been monitoring what is happening in Belarus for a long time. Already in February 2006, our representative of the people made a statement in support of democracy in Belarus. What has been emphasised in this Chamber at that time is also relevant today. As we can see, developments in Belarus are long-term, and therefore we must not create an illusion today that Belarus, which respects citizens' freedoms and their democratic rights, is immediately a reality. But one thing is clear: the national awakening of Belarusians, the courage to face the helpless violence of the authorities, and the hope of a better future has led to a fundamental upheaval. With this in mind, our statement today is also important, with which, as representatives of the people of Estonia, we will also convey the solidarity of the people of Estonia to the Belarusians' attempts at freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U6	Thank you, good waitress. There are a number of questions for you. First, Maria Jufereva-Skuratovsky asks.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U7	Thank you for the floor. I want to ask how you think these events in Belarus could affect our Eastern Partnership programme. Are these events expected to result in some of the projects in this programme slowing down or even stopping?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U8	Thank you, that is a very important question. As I mentioned in the speech, indeed, Belarus is one of the six Eastern Partnership Member States, but communication with Belarus, both at the official level and through civil society, has been considerably more difficult than with Georgia, Armenia, Moldova, Ukraine or Azerbaijan, which are the other five Eastern Partnership countries. As far as I am concerned, now that the government has already decided to support civil society, in addition to the Eastern Partnership programmes, which are currently partially suspended, with EUR 100000, is the question of what are the most effective ways in which such support from both us and others would reach where it really needs to be. I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is active in this regard and that there are a number of civil society organisations in Estonia, non-profit organisations with experience in cooperation with colleagues from Belarus. I believe that the events that are now developing in Belarus will certainly not lead to very rapid and expected results for us. However, this is likely to increase the possibilities of at least this hope is that we can also support Belarusian civil society in the future through the Eastern Partnership programmes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U9	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The post-Presidential stalemate in Belarus lasts for the third week. The streets are crowded, there's news every day, there's more coming. At the beginning of your presentation, you described possible development scenarios in Belarus. If for a moment you return to the possible developments you described at the beginning, which of them are more likely to materialise and on which or whom does it depend?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U11	Thank you, this is indeed a very important question. If we knew exactly how these developments were going, maybe that statement wouldn't be necessary. But for that we have gathered here today to give a clear understanding of our support, especially to the Belarusian capital as well as to the streets of other cities, to the people who have come in defiance of violence, whose most important message now is that they want to have the right to freely decide their future. And in fact the elections were most likely won by Svetlana Tsikhanovskaya's main programme objective was to create the preconditions for holding new, free, honest, democratic elections within the next six months. This is certainly the easiest way to answer this question: the people of Belarus must have the right, through free, fair elections, to decide their own future on both internal and foreign policy issues. In fact, this debate has not been possible in Belarus since the early 1990s. We can see that, even now, the Belarusian leadership, led by the leadership, is boldly trying to say this with President Lukashenko, who was a former president, for the third week now, to avoid dialogue. He has called for arrests or orders to arrest members of the Coordination Council in order also to pressure any kind of dialogue with those who protest on the street. Of course, the very big question is how they have reacted and how the current Russian leadership can react to what is happening in Belarus. There are very many different speculations upstairs because adequate information from Russia is very difficult to see or hear. But one thing is absolutely obvious: Russia is doing everything it needs to do. Even if Lukashenko had to withdraw from power, the opinions are now moving, that one possible way to withdraw him is to offer him a high official position in the federal state, to offer immunity. And then a new leader could emerge through the elections in Belarus and perhaps also with the readjustment of the constitution, who should be willing to carry out deeper integration with Russia. However, even at a distance to observe the events that have spread out in Belarus over three weeks, the two mass demonstrations in which hundreds of thousands of people on the streets of Minsk expressed their minds under national flags, it is very difficult to imagine that the Kremlin's political technology would still function in a way that they may have imagined a few weeks or months ago. Military intervention in Belarus is, in my view, not yet topical. This may be topical if the Belarusian armed forces or security forces can switch to the side of the people. There is no provision for this at least according to the latest information. So once again: all the developments that will be taking place in Belarus will be very long and we must also be prepared that these changes will not be rapid.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U12	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for a thorough but very worrying presentation. People in Estonia who support change in Belarus have expressed their support in different ways. Last on August 23, we stood in a red and white chain in Tallinn. There has been talk of support from civil society in Belarus; you answered the first questioner when you touched it. But how could Estonia help Belarus's free media?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U14	Thank you. This is certainly one of the areas on which we can obtain adequate information from Belarus at all. Well, we might as well go back to the days of 30 years ago when we had a momentous event here. We know how important it was for us to then provide the Western world and the free world with information about what is happening in the country. Of course, things are different in the Internet age. We have seen a situation in which, despite all the possible restrictions imposed by the authorities on the transmission of information by social media channels or, even more generally, by restricting the Internet, this has not been an obstacle. We have, however, seen and heard literally in the online picture what is happening in that country. In Estonia, of course, we have actively initiated various programmes through the Eastern Partnership Centre and in cooperation with our partners in our immediate neighbourhood. Perhaps there have indeed been fewer in the direction of Belarus. But now it is a place where we need to seriously think about what our opportunities are to support the strengthening of Belarusian civil society mainly through various channels, including the free press. I remember from the times of my young journalist that there were many different programmes in the early 1990s, with the help of which it was possible to better understand how a journalist in a free and open society should act, what his rights and opportunities were.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U15	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The list of actions that we can do for the future of Belarus, of course, is not too long. These are political statements such as we are dealing with today, citizens' actions, sanctions at European Union level and financial support for civil society organisations. Did the Committee on Foreign Affairs also discuss the infrastructure that will ensure that this aid actually reaches these civil society organisations in Belarus and not the government institutions? The same point is also mentioned in the statement by the Lithuanian Seim, but it states more specifically that direct financial assistance is involved and financial assistance is limited to government agencies. How does this assistance reach Belarusian civil society organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U17	Thank you. Of course, it cannot be assumed that if aid were to be given to the Belarusian Government, it could be hoped that it would go to strike workers to compensate for their losses or to strengthen civil society. Of course, that is not the case. After all, the system that has worked so far in the context of the Eastern Partnership has been somewhat complicated. It is precisely because Belarus has still made very serious internal obstacles to the creation of civil society organisations and their contacts with the rest of the world. But, as far as I know, there is a great deal of work to do on this by supporting the likely winner of the elections in Lithuania, Tikhanovskaya, but also through other civil organisations leading the people's revolution in Belarus. Of course, all this aid will be easier to deliver if Belarus reaches new elections in the current transitional period. It's still hard to predict when they could happen. However, I think it is more a matter of time than it is that they prove impossible. And, of course, one thing that is very important to bear in mind is that Belarus is economically highly dependent on Russia. In their current situation, they still find the economic situation far more difficult due to many aspects than it was, for example, six months ago. It is certainly also one of the leverages that Russia is exerting pressure on Belarus. I think that the European Union, perhaps the wider international community, could have a great need to think about the creation of a fund to assist Belarus. The Belarusians have actually applied for this. We've been talking about a few billion euros. I think this is an issue that should certainly be discussed very seriously at the level of the Heads of State or Government of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U18	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Do you think that the European Union, including the Baltic countries with Lithuania, has done everything to contribute to democracy in Belarus, or is there something you would have liked to do better or otherwise if you had had the chance to be in the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U20	I think that it is already alone that our statement today is still a consensual statement, supported by all the political forces represented in the Riigikogu, shows that it equally matters to both the opposition and the political forces in the coalition. However, as far as the activities of the Baltic States and Poland are concerned, I must say that, above all, Lithuania and Poland, of course, clearly show activity for fully objective, historical reasons just before the presidential elections take place, and especially after they take place, shows how much small countries can also do to influence the shaping of European Union policies. While the presidential elections had taken place on 9 August, the first reaction from the European Union's so-called External Action Service was sluggish. Of course, August is the quietest month in every sense, but the first reaction was that perhaps we wait until the end of August and maybe then let's see how the events have progressed, and the foreign ministers had a plan to come together anyway. However, thanks to the support and demand of the Baltic States, Poland and also Nordic countries, an extraordinary meeting of foreign ministers was held after the elections on Friday, where sanctions were agreed on for natural persons responsible for the violent repression of demonstrations. And, of course, it is very important that, on the proposal of Poland, there was a virtual meeting of the Heads of State or Government of the European Union, but it stressed that the elections that took place were fraudulent and that it was not possible to recognise the President in his office. This is a very strong approach by the European Union, given other problems. Let us think about what is currently happening in the Mediterranean between Greece and Cyprus and Turkey. So once again: this activity, which has been demonstrated by our closest neighbours and also by ourselves, I believe that these are steps in the right direction. However, it is certainly necessary to develop such a longer-term policy as well. To assume that in a few weeks, a few months, or even a few years, a very big break could now take place in Belarus would be very premature. We must be ready to implement a long-term policy. It must be borne in mind that Belarus is not a Member State of the Council of Europe, for one very simple reason. This is because Belarus is the only European country with the death penalty. If Belarus could, in the near future, also make governance fairer, more democratic by choosing new ones, then with one simple step, i.e. banning the death penalty, Belarus as a European country, it would also be possible to bring the people of Europe to the family of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U21	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U22	Good manager! Good waitress! There's a lot to ask. Yes, every nation has the right to choose the leader they think is right. But you said the election was most likely won not by Lukashenko. And my little question is, what's the probability? But my big question is that Belarus happens to be a member of the Eurasian Alliance. What kind of violation of such a global system could result? And what and how much can this result in for us? We now have a large army of Ukrainian foreign workers. How many Belarusian migrant workers or refugees can be added to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U23	Thank you. I realized there were a whole series of questions. First of all, the question of elections and possible forgeries and who won these elections. As I have already mentioned, the main objective of the Svetlana Tsikhanovskaya campaign was to ensure that new, honest, democratic elections could be held in at least the next six months. And the main reason why this became one of the most important wishes of Tsikhanovskaya was, of course, that his wife, Sergei Tsikhanovsky, as well as a number of other people who showed a wish to stand as candidates in the presidential elections, was either arrested like Tsikhanovsky and Babarõka or forced to leave the country like Tsapkala, for example. Of course, as in previous presidential elections, it is not possible to talk about free, fair, transparent elections this time either. This is not about how the candidates were treated, nor about how the elections were conducted. The facts that came to the public on election day due to independent threshold polls both in Belarus and in 19 foreign countries at the Belarusian representations, including in Tallinn, clearly showed a trend. In Belarus, where around 80,000 people were interviewed in threshold polls and possibly even more, the grant for Tsikhanovskaya was 65-70%, and was even higher abroad at embassies. This is one of the proofs that we should very seriously question the official election results. Lukashenko confirmed that 80% of the people voted for him. But let us see what reaction was immediately after the election results were published on the streets of Belarus, and not only in Minsk, but also in other cities, and not only in Western Belarus, but also elsewhere. Let us see how many came to demand new elections to protest against the results of these elections, and how many were forced into the country by buses to support Lukashenko on the Sunday before last. This in itself is a very figurative example of what kind of mind is among the people, what the people think of how these elections actually produced such a result. But the fact is that, on the basis of these results, the most important solution for the future of Belarus, as you rightly said, is in the hands of the Belarusian people themselves. And they must be able to have free decision-making through fair and democratic elections, where, among other things, members of our Riigikogu, the OSCE or the Council of Europe's delegations may be able to participate as observers, as is natural in the context of international observation. Of course, in the case of these elections too, it has been said that international observers were present, but we know which country they were from: Russia. So it cannot be taken to be true, especially when there was no organisation set up to observe the elections internationally, there was no OSCE. Of course, these statements cannot be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U24	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U25	Thank you. Good waitress, thank you very much for this thorough review. The statement is noble. I ask you what effect we now expect from this statement. I ask this because Tsikhanovskaya, in his interview with Belsat, said that this issue, this situation must be resolved internally. At the same time, we know that society is relatively closed, and the only country that has influence there is Russia. Europe is passive and the international community is also, as you yourself pointed out. What effect do we now expect from our statement? And the small undertone of the question is this, precisely in the light of the message of Tsikhanovskaya, that are we helping the opposition or rather making excuses?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U26	Thank you. We'll help. As far as I know, when our Foreign Minister was in contact with Tsikhanovskaya, the information was that any, including such moral support, is very important for those people who are facing not only rubber clubs on the streets of Minsk, but also with real battle weapons. Consider, for example, the events of 30 years ago here in Estonia! Any expression of support for our singing revolution was also crucial, even though political statements alone were perhaps less effective in reality. But now Poland, Lithuania and Latvia have made their statement. The European Parliament has also taken a position, its conclusions have been drawn from foreign ministers at European Union level, have been made by representatives of the European Commission, and so have the Heads of Government. I believe that our people's knowledge of what is happening in Belarus has also improved, even though they are considerably more limited than in Ukraine or on any other subject. This is a natural expression of solidarity for those who really want to decide their own future. I would like to emphasise once again that our statement, too, will certainly not be striving to give the Belarusian people, or Belarusians, a road map showing how they should walk. They know how and what decisions to make today. But we certainly cannot remain silent at a time when such important events are taking place in our immediate neighbourhood. And as I mentioned in my speech, they cannot necessarily leave us alone. The future of Belarus cannot fail to affect our regional security. It depends very much on which direction and decisions Belarus is going to take.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U27	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much for your report, dear colleague. Undoubtedly, we must support our fellow fates. It has been read in the news that the elections in Belarus were also being monitored by foreign observers, and they too were being subjected to repression. Is it known which organisations were independently observing the elections in Belarus and are their reports ready? If so, what kind of violations are they primarily talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U29	Thank you. I must admit that I do not know that there would have been observers from any internationally recognised observer organisation. At least their actions, even if any of them may have been present, were clearly limited and hindered. The demand by Mr Tsikhanovskaya, who has probably won the elections in Belarus, as I mentioned, is to achieve that preparations for new elections involve international observation not only on election day from the start of the process. This whole process should be democratic and take place in the screening of candidates and their ideas and positions in the context of free media. This, of course, cannot be expected in the light of what is happening in Belarus in the near future, but I think it also proved to be what we are doing in our statement, but it confirms that legitimacy for the future leader of Belarus is still given international observation, which is competent and internationally recognised.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U30	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! What is the current situation with the various sanctions that are intended to be applied in support of the people who stand up for democracy in Belarus and, on the other hand, with individual targeted sanctions for Belarusian officials responsible for the counterfeiting of the results of the presidential elections in Belarus and the excessive use of force against peaceful demonstrators in Belarusian cities? Will there be an addition to the common visa ban sanction for Estonia and Lithuania? And do you think this is enough and when can all of them actually come into force? And how far is there in the European Parliament with substantive debates?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U32	Thank you. These are all very important concrete actions that must be taken, but which perhaps must not be placed in the main focus, precisely in the sense that it is our interest to support civil society in Belarus. It should not be the impression that we are now only sanctioning Belarus. We are indeed sanctioning those specific individuals who are responsible for both the counterfeiting of the elections and, above all, for the violence against their citizens. I also had some information today with representatives of Belarus, precisely then with representatives of the Belarusian majority. I would remind you that, when Mr Tsikhanovskaya was present today before the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, he also stressed that these demonstrations, demonstrations are convincing assurances that, in fact, the majority of the Belarusian people are of the opinion that former President Lukashenko has remained clearly and unambiguously in a minority. These sanctions should not damage the feeling of these people that Europe cares about them. Of course, we can see that, for historical and other reasons, Belarus's ties with Russia, the Belarusian people's ties with the Russian people, are deep and close. This certainly should not be deplored, and it is perfectly normal that these ties have been so strong. But it is certainly important that, with these sanctions, we do not prevent such a natural pluralistic dispute from arising among them when they think about what future to choose in terms of foreign policy trends. I very much hope that the discussions on sanctions that have been launched will not end with a stalemate in relation to another difficult geopolitical or international situation. I mentioned that, at a very unpleasant time, tensions have arisen between Greece in Cyprus, on the one hand, and Turkey, on the other. Such messages have also been put forward at these meetings by colleagues from these countries: if we support Belarus, should Cyprus and Greece not be equally supported in the situation that has now developed there. We certainly need to understand that the overall picture is much more varied, that events are not only developing around Belarus. But, as I said in my speech, I am positively surprised that, despite August, the European Union has, in fact, been able to agree quite a lot already and, in my opinion, has taken sufficiently vigorous steps. Now it is just important that Estonia and the other Baltic countries keep this pace. But I also want to say that one thing that is very important to the people of Belarus right now is that the rest of the world does not close its eyes to the violence that the people of Belarus are experiencing: these killings, these tortures, both video and photo evidence and transcripts from journalists who were in these prisons are hideous. These actions must be brought under international investigation and I know that, in cooperation with the various countries, steps will be taken to ensure that this knowledge is clearly there and that those who have actually committed these crimes will be punished.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U33	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U34	Thank you. Good waitress! One of the Estonian ambassadors in the European Parliament has today given an interview where he says that Estonia made a mistake when he questioned the results of the elections in Belarus. And there is such a quote that, unfortunately, Estonia will soon have to eat its words. We have met the Minister of Defence on this issue, we have met the Minister of Foreign Affairs, we have spoken to our embassy and other sources of information. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, if I am not mistaken, does not have such an indication that the whole West has misunderstood everything, that in fact there were very fair and transparent elections. Do you have more information on why we need to start eating our words soon? Is there any way you can explain such statements by people close to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U35	Thank you, good questioner! This is indeed a very interesting point of attention to such a statement. I saw this interview, I know who you're talking about. But I also know that this person once said that the attack in Salisbury, for example, wasn't really there. Even then, the same person announced that soon you would all have to eat your words. Nothing like that happened. I wouldn't pay too much attention to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U36	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U37	Good manager! Good waitress! As Estonians, we know how central to maintaining national identity is our own language. Among Belarusians, knowledge and use of their native language has been steadily declining. One of the first steps taken by Lukashenko in his coming to power in the 1990s was the abolition of Belarusian as the sole state language. Today, only about 10% of Belarusian people use Belarusian on a daily basis. You cannot talk about the national awakening of Belarus without reviving the Belarusian language. And, therefore, my question is: can the current situation, in which the people of Belarus are fighting for their freedom, lead to the re-emergence of their national identity, culture and language and, in the light of our experience, should we consider it a crucial issue here precisely to preserve endangered languages and cultures?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U38	Thank you. This is, in my opinion, a very appropriate question linked to what is actually happening in Belarus. Belarus, however, has experienced independence once in history, though for a very short time, in 1918. But still, the same national flag, the colors of which are now a sign of the popular revolution, is a very clear symbol of the subject you are asking about. If you have been monitoring the social media surveys from Belarus, it has also been stressed how much more has been spoken in Belarusian during these days, both journalists and the public have done so. Of course, their national identity has been incomparably weaker than the Ukrainians have or have been, let alone the Baltic States, but the more groundbreaking that is happening there today. I mentioned that, of course, this process will be long and complex, but I have the feeling that this is precisely the effect of the new generation of Belarus, the very intelligent generation, also those choices that concern the importance and preservation of language, culture, national identity, in order to ensure the preservation of its independence and sovereignty, territorial integrity. It's something you don't push back anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U39	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It must be accepted that the individual images that have reached the international media are quite ugly and frightening. Let us hope that no crime will go unpunished there. But can you tell me what Lukashenka and Putin have said? When I look at what is going on in Russia, what is going on, what is going on, what is going on, what is going on, what is going on, what is going on, what is going on, what is going on, what is going on, what is going on, what is going on? You said earlier that, since the army has not yet gone to the side of the people, Russia's more vigorous intervention can begin at the moment the army does.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U41	Thank you. It is very important to consider what scenarios might be. In many ways, this is all speculation. But what do we know? It is known that, at least since 2018, Russia has launched a very robust process to force the Belarusian leadership into closer integration with Russia. As everyone knows, the so-called 'Union agreement' between Belarus and Russia was concluded 23 years ago, in 1997. At the time, when Lukashenko had been President of Belarus for three years, one of his wishes was to take the lead in the Belarusian-Russian alliance instead of the sick Yeltsin. He was much more popular then in Russia than Yeltsin was then. And in the current situation, Lukashenko has until recently been able to play relatively skilfully. We recall the days immediately preceding the elections when a sudden announcement came from Belarus that 32 Wagner fighters had been arrested, allegedly coming to Belarus to help the opposition forces organize the riots. Of course, the aim was to show how Lukashenko is protecting Belarus from Russia's threat. It was not long before the same 32 men were sent, despite Ukraine's request for 28 extraditions because they were involved in crimes committed in Donbass to Russia, not to say a word that they would have to pay some kind of punishment because of their intentions. Now, obviously, Lukashenko is trying to achieve Russia's aid somehow, with considerable weakening. Perhaps this has also been the subject of these talks. I think he no longer expects to remain in the presidency, but rather the question of how he could withdraw from the position he is in today so that he would maintain his integrity and gain a dignified place in the context of a possible alliance. But in any case, as I mentioned earlier, the situation is in some respects favourable to Russia, because Lukashenko is much weaker and ready to go to concessions for which he may not have been ready a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U42	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. I thank you for a very good and constructive presentation and answers. Enn Eesmaa, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, will be next. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U43	Ladies and gentlemen, All the political groups of the Riigikogu are represented in the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu. If the entire Riigikogu were to work equally democraticly, harmoniously, decisively and constructively, our daily work would certainly be more effective. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, in my opinion, the processing of this statement went exceptionally productively and well. We have been discussing Belarus through this summer, and as mentioned earlier, we already adopted the Riigikogu statement in February 2006 to protect democracy in Belarus. Of course, we reread the statement at the time and had to admit that all these points of pain were still present and that the situation had become more critical and worse. This indicates that this statement is extremely important. It is also quite logical that the first statements came from the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the Riigikogu. A few days after the 9 August elections, I signed, with the approval of my colleagues, the statement by the presidents of the foreign affairs committees of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland on the elections in Belarus. That statement was critical. And then we started collecting more and more information. There's a lot of information, we've gotten it from a lot of sources. We have had very frequent videoconferences with our Belarusian embassy in Minsk and their length has not been 10 or 15 minutes, but they have lasted much longer. We have discussed the issues with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and those of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who are well aware of Belarus several times together. We are very pleased and are also actively using information from the so-called Monitoring Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where for some time all the four-point-five-point topics have been related to Belarus. The issue of Belarus is far from being exhausted. Today's information is quite disturbing. You certainly know, and you have heard, that Lukashenko even sent his war helicopters to Lithuania's territory, according to our information, in order to eliminate the balloons that were in the border zone and probably also reached the Belarus side. He said there's poison in those balloons. We know that the President of Lithuania has today convened a National Defence Council. It is possible that one of the reasons was precisely this, but there were certainly other reasons. Just before coming to this remote control, I read information that the Russian arms group Almaz-Antey has signed an agreement with Belarus on the supply of military 2020 missile systems spare parts to Belarus. This is the time when countries are sending signals and Belarus itself is sending a great deal of these signals. We've seen pictures and videos where Lukashenko is fully armed, next to his underage son, who is also armed. They take these things quite seriously and this is already the result of an analysis of whether they do so more for national or international reasons. In short, our data on what is happening in Belarus is diverse and, of course, we have also received hidden information about the situation there. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the situation in Belarus after election day, already at its meeting on 13 August. Kalvi Noormägi, a diplomat in Belarus, gave an overview of the situation on the ground, because at that point our ambassador was not in Minsk. Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu, who is known to be a frequent guest of our Committee on Foreign Affairs, presented Estonia's views mainly at the informal video meeting of the foreign ministers of the European Union, where Belarus was, of course, one of the main topics. After listening to both rapporteurs, the members of the committee decided unanimously to make a statement at the same meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in which we noted that compelling evidence indicates that the results of the presidential elections in Belarus have been grossly falsified, and therefore the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia cannot regard the declared election results as legitimate. We know that there has also been much more rapid rhetoric internationally, for example, that Lukashenko is the previous President and power is lying down in Belarus. We didn't go that way, we stuck to our sentence. On 18 August, we discussed the situation in Belarus again, and the Commission found it useful to draw up a statement by the Riigikogu on Belarus. To this end, a working group was set up, which is common to us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, including representatives of all political groups: Raimond Kaljulaid, Anti Poolamets, Mikhail Lotman, Marko Mihkelson and Enn Esemaa. On 24 August, a draft of the Riigikogu statement 'Democracy and civil society support in Belarus' was submitted to the proceedings on behalf of 88 members of the Riigikogu. By the deadline for tabling the amendments, by 10 a.m. this morning, we did not receive any amendments, and in our meeting today, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to appoint a rapporteur for the commission. It was a brief overview of how the Committee on Foreign Affairs dealt with this issue. As head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I once again express my thanks and support to all those who work in this committee and to all those who signed the statement. By the way, I'm a long way from reading those who didn't sign, automatically being the ones who basically didn't sign. I know that despite Estonia's high digital level, some people were unable to sign it for purely technical reasons. Although, there were people who did not sign basically and probably will not vote in favour of this statement today. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U44	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. The first question comes from Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U45	Thank you. Mr. Frontland! I would like to ask you about the consensus you have emphasised. I would like to hear who these fundamental non-signatories were, if they are known to the Commission, and what their justifications were. Secondly, how should Igor Kravtšenko, the head of the friendship group of the Estonian-Belarus Parliament, address the words that have been mentioned in Delfi? He stresses that Lukashenko is the democratic choice of the people and that different countries have recognised his victory and ridicules the European community, which is critical of this process. Why do we have such a parliamentary friendship group? Is there a need for a different, parallel group? And what were the arguments of the other opposers?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U46	Yes, we took the view in the group that, above all, it is the personal decision of every nationalist. We didn't start a serious investigation into why anyone said so or so. Kravtšenko must say it himself; he has already given some kind of interview. I don't share his views on this. And as a follow-up comment to Raimond, I will say that, although Yana Toom, who was finally mentioned, said that perhaps Estonia hurried with this decision, which was made in this respect, and I do not agree with Yana Toom, he added that if you read the interview further, that the statement we are taking here today would be signed by him. So he sees these problems. We, yes, as a group, did not go this way to vote in the same way and to think in the same way. But in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we had a full consensus. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there is our group, Maria Jufereva, who signed the statement and who was with us from the beginning to the end. Friendship group, it's our own people's business. It is possible to make changes if the current leader is not quite the right man to lead this group of friends. At this point, I would not go any further in commenting.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U47	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U48	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Some members of your party have expressed doubts in the press as to whether and how the allegations that the official presidential elections in Belarus were still fraud can be relied on. But I would like to know your opinion: do you think that the results of the presidential elections in Belarus are falsified or were these elections still fair and fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U49	I do not understand the part of the question you referred to me, but I think that I have already answered it several times before. As far as the opinion of some other group representatives is concerned, I will say once again that yes, our attitude towards this statement is that everyone makes their own decision. I, on the basis of the information I've received and I've been looking for from several sources, have come to the conclusion that I signed this statement. I was the first to see the original text of this statement, which, by the way, was not originally prepared by politicians, but by our advisors, I am very grateful to Birgit Keerd-Leppik, who drafted this original text. I saw it first, and I made only a few additions to stress that we are adopting a statement by the Estonian Parliament. But basically that's what the text was.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U50	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, 14 years have passed since the 2006 Riigikogu statement. I ask you, as a long-term member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, whether the Estonian state has done enough over these years to support the development of civil society and free media in Belarus. What concrete steps should we take today?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U52	Without doubt, Belarus's issues have been constantly on the radar of Estonia's top politicians, but there have always been other issues that have been more important and hotter than what is happening in Belarus. As far as the Riigikogu is concerned, the fact that we already adopted a statement in 2006 as I said, the points that we were concerned about at the time have remained practically the same, in my opinion, show that we are on the right track. Today, Estonia will undoubtedly have much more opportunities to do something for Belarus. It was already mentioned here that Belarus is one of the Eastern Partnership countries; it is undoubtedly not in this narrowest circle. However, let us take just one example: if tomorrow the defence ministers of the countries of the European Union begin to discuss with each other in Berlin and there is an opportunity to assist the Eastern Partnership countries through the Peace Fund, too, Belarus will initially be virtually out of this list for the Lukashenka regime, if they come to a decision that suits them and the rest of the world, there is no doubt that this opportunity will also exist. The Eastern Partnership has the right range of dimensions and Estonia has undoubtedly contributed to this. This work will continue and must continue, and our statement is a statement of support in this direction. I think we are all happy to remember this time when Estonia did everything to make it possible for us to be free, democratic. We were very grateful to the neighbouring countries, especially the Nordic countries, but also to all those who supported us at the time. And although the Belarusian national media never tells what has been published by the President of Estonia, Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs or Riigikogu, there is quite a lot of free media there. It also gives the Belarusian people access to their information. So, Signe, this work must definitely continue, and our statement sends a strong signal that we are ready for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U53	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U54	Good manager! Good waitress! Unfortunately, Marko Mihkelson did not answer my main questions, but you are the chairman of the committee and your view should be even wider. Yes, Belarus is an Eastern Partnership country, but also a 'Stammian' member of the Eurasian Union. I am thinking of the global game that this little statement that we have, which is right for every nation, has the right to choose who they think it is necessary to run the country, touches. But we are not in the habit of saying that, like the draft laws, all these effects have an impact on the economy, social policy, defence, security, etc. But now, on the basis of the impact this statement may have, let us look at Ukraine, for example. We have strongly supported Ukraine and we have open doors for foreign workers from there; we have very large numbers of them. Can this statement, in the case of Belarus, also lead to the emergence of such another large group as refugees, on the one hand, if, for example, the Lukashenka regime persists, and, on the other hand, as 'foreign workers', if a miracle really happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U55	Thank you. You know, Peter, it's practically impossible to do this kind of analysis. On the balcony is the former ambassador of Estonia in Belarus, I believe he too would have difficulty with it. This is once again one of those times in history when it comes to choosing between pragmatism and principles. The statement by the Estonian Riigikogu indicates that we express solidarity, we give a political assessment, we support civil society, and we certainly do not say it directly, but, in the context of this text, it is clear that it will not interfere in Belarus's internal affairs. By the way, when we discussed this statement, we also had the idea of putting in the statement, for example, such a sentence that the Riigikogu supports and understands the change of the Belarusian flag. We agreed relatively quickly that there might be a little too much, and we decided that we would refrain from making such statements. This is already the decision of the Belarusians, which they will continue to make, as well as the alliances they belong to. Right, they are part of the Eastern Partnership programme, but they are not very active. However, there are other countries, even Armenia is not overactive, even though it belongs to it. The Belarusians themselves decide which organisations they go to. That is why we have the OSCE separately. International observers were not allowed to observe the elections, but among the observers of this organisation, the people of the Estonian Riigikogu would probably have been able and wanted to follow the elections in Belarus.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U56	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U57	Thank you, Enn, for the report. My question is formulated in such a way that it is understandable that the decision of the Estonian Parliament that we do not recognise the elections in Belarus and the President, is an extremely strong signal. In this regard, I would like to ask whether the political and economic consequences of such a strong signal were discussed in the Commission if we cannot develop normal political and economic relations with this country.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U58	Yeah, you come back to pragmatism and principles. Some time ago, relatively recently, I made a statement with the Presidents of the Foreign Affairs Committees of the Parliaments of ten European Union countries, which was critical of China and supported Hong Kong. China's influence and capabilities are much greater than Belarus, for example, but we have decided to make this statement. However, as I said, it was signed by the leaders of the foreign affairs committees of the parliaments of ten countries of the European Union, so there are certainly also those who may be thinking more about what this will bring about economically. At the same time, if the regime were to change there, they would come closer to the West and open up a number of new opportunities, then perhaps we would have less hope of becoming a workforce from Belarus, for example, as we are now getting from Ukraine. Either way, we decided to go that way. Make a final tear that affects it, the second and the third? If we made such a statement against China, you can imagine how long it took when China already sent the relevant documents to the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs, because they are paying attention to everything there. But we decided to make that statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U59	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U60	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Ten minutes ago, I saw the title of the title only in the online edition of the Evening Festival, unfortunately I did not get to read the article, which stated that the Belarusian Parliament had sent a 'nomenical letter' to the Riigikogu. Are you aware of this letter? And if so, what was the contents of this letter?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U61	Unfortunately, I have not seen this letter, but today we have received a letter from the President of the Lithuanian Parliament, the Speaker, in which he also made the statement made by the Lithuanian Parliament, among other things. The Latvian Parliament has also made a statement to that effect. Yes, it is generally known that the overall attitude of the Belarusian Parliament is critical of those countries that show solidarity to members of civil society. Perhaps the Board of the Riigikogu has seen this statement, I have not seen it, but I can imagine what it would be like. Nevertheless, I recommend voting in favour of our statement today.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U62	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Thank you for your good presentation. We will move on to the negotiations and the representatives of the political groups and committees can speak. First of all, as a representative of the Group of the Anneli Ott Centre Party, please. Anneli Oti's name appeared on the screen first to me and then to the Polish forest. But let's give Anneli Ot a privilege as a lady.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I would like to express my support for the wish of the people of Belarus to make democratic changes and the need to put an end to violence, to free illegally detained persons and to enter into an inclusive internal dialogue. The Centre Party Group is in agreement with the European Union and the Government of the Republic and does not recognise the results of the presidential elections in Belarus because the elections were neither free nor fair. Members of the Central Party agree that the Estonian state should support the efforts and will of the Belarusian people to make changes. Only they have the right to freely choose their future path. Contributing to the emergence of Belarusian civil society is essential for the development of a democratic society. I hope that the changes in Belarus will contribute to closer cooperation within the framework of the European Union's Eastern Partnership programme. The integration of Belarus into the European Union would help to expand the Community's economic capacity and cultural diversity. The Centre Party Group expresses its hope that the ongoing processes will proceed peacefully in Belarus, without violence and without casualties. All attempts to interfere with the right of the Belarusian people to free and democratic elections must be understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U64	Thank you! Next will be the Anti Half Office on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U65	Ladies and gentlemen, On the day that we in Estonia recalled the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact and its consequences, hundreds of thousands of people gathered in Minsk to demand free and fair elections. The consequences of the MRP also concerned Western Belarus, which was then composed of Poland. Immediately after the Red Army had occupied the eastern part of Poland, repression began. As a bad echo of these events, the current fictitious Alaksandr Lukashenka, who wished to be in power as a false player, sent troops against peaceful demonstrators who allegedly had the task of protecting Belarusian monuments from rebels. In Belarus, so many people have never demanded basic civil rights. The demonstrations and strikes take place across the country: in Grodnas, Brest, Vitebsk, Gomel. Election counterfeiting and distortion shall begin long before counterfeits are carried out at polling stations at the request of the authorities. It starts with the lack of free press, starting with the removal of candidates from the elections. Presidential candidate Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, whose wife Sergei, the presidential candidate, was arrested on 29 May, said in an appeal to the Belarusian people: 'We have evidence of counterfeiting. In the minutes of the electoral commissions, where the votes were read honestly, my grant was 60-70%. ' The statement of the Riigikogu that we are now voting on can give encouragement to the Belarusian people. The most important message of the Riigikogu statement is aimed at organising free elections. The statement calls for free elections to be held as soon as possible under the supervision of international organisations. This is what the protesters in Belarus want. It also calls on the Member States of the United Nations and their parliaments to support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Belarus, to condemn any attempt to intervene in the Belarusian people's law to organise free and democratic elections. I hope that the people of Belarus will choose sovereignty. However, even TV journalists have already arrived from Russia today to replace the on-the-spot Belarusian television workers. Is Russia going to intervene with a gun if things don't follow their baton? It is monitored with concern by both the people of Belarus and the public in the world. Violence has already erupted in Belarus because the police have killed people. There's a lot of missing persons. Lukashenko is waving a machine gun at his own people and dealing with the invention of an enemy, NATO. So far, his greatest achievement has been the rejection of balloons arriving from Lithuania with combat helicopters. Belarus' protests have been dignified and disciplined. There have been no looting, no even attacks on the security forces. These protests have been compared to the singing revolution. Yet, thousands of demonstrators have been imprisoned and brutally beaten, yet the missing and many have died under dubious circumstances. It is important that no one dies anymore, which is why the Riigikogu statement condemns any use of force... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U66	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U67	... peaceful protestors. We need to monitor the situation in Belarus closely, and international attention to the events in Belarus can be shaped together in this Chamber. The Western countries should apply sanctions against the Lukashenko administration in full seriousness. But that's not enough either. Edward Lucas noted that the Lukashenka clan was washing money through the Western Finance Centres, using generously the opportunities offered by the West. Freezing and confiscating assets and imposing travel bans would not be overdoing it. Rather, they would put an end to a time of regrettable underestimation. After all, we know how Swedbank, SEB Pank and Danske Bank washed unprecedented amounts of money in Estonia and how the supervisors were blindfolded. If the people of Belarus regain the right to organise free elections and democratic regimes, there will be new opportunities for cooperation, where Estonia could also be a pioneer. Tallinn has a three-sea initiative summit in October, with 12 countries involved. Why should the security and economic cooperation between the three sea states not extend to Ukraine and Belarus after democratic elections? Such an Intermarium cooperation format would already bring together over 160 million people. I think that Estonia could take the initiative here and support Belarus and the new architecture of the entire Eastern European space.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U68	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask for a chair of speech under the authority of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Raimond Kaljulaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, The situation is truly extraordinary. Raimond Kaljulaid, sitting on this side of the hall, agrees with almost every word said by Anti Poolamets, who sits on the other side of the hall, my good colleague from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I don't remember a case like that before. I would like to thank all the delegates who have signed this application and who are in this Chamber today. There is no secret and, in today's debate, it has also come out that Estonian society has different visions about Belarus. For this reason, this statement really does not have the signatures of all our fellow Members. We have also heard opinions on how Estonia should not have taken the view that the results of the elections in Belarus were falsified and not legitimate, because 'as a pity, we will soon have to eat our words'. Why should we eat our words? What did we say wrong? At the recent joint session of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, some delegates questioned whether we could say with certainty that Belarus's election results were falsified. Of course they were forged, and we can say that with certainty. The dictatorship advocates have also argued that the people who come to the streets of Belarus do not know what they want themselves and that they do not have leaders. I am sure that most Belarusians, especially the younger generation, want to live in a free democratic country with fair and fair elections. They want to decide their own future, and they certainly want a functioning and free economy that would give everyone the opportunity to make their own fortunes, earn a decent income or do business. These freedoms and rights are fully guaranteed by all of us here in Estonia. Of course, others deserve them. Lukashenko is sometimes referred to as a strong man, or strong leader, using the English expression. On the contrary, I think Lukashenko and others like him are weak leaders. A strong leader does not fear fair elections, he goes to these elections and wins. I think that we also need to think critically against the background of the events in Belarus, so that we in Estonia do not ignore and condemn attempts to learn from people like Lukashenko. In one of Estonia's municipalities, a schoolteacher was recently called and remarked, who had dared to criticize the Prime Minister. He lost his job. It didn't happen in Minsk, it happened here in Tallinn. For some reason, I don't think he would have been asked out, and he wouldn't have been minded if he had criticized Kaja Kallas or Indrek Saart. Under Lukashenko's leadership, his country is going very badly, which once again proves that societies that are free are more successful. Belarus has a GDP per capita of less than $20,000, even less than Russia, twice as much as Estonia. Let's just say that if an elderly person who receives a pension in Estonia moved to Minsk today, he would be twice as rich at once, not to mention the elderly in the Nordic countries, Finland and Sweden. I think it is also important what has been said in the explanatory memorandum that the Estonian people remember and are grateful for the help and support given to us by the Western countries, especially the Nordic countries, in the late 1980s and in the early 1990s. Not to mention that we remember all those who never recognised our occupation by the Soviet Union. It is now our duty not to recognise the electoral counterfeiting and, using force, the self-established power in Minsk. And ultimately, it is not our wish that the Iron Curtain, which once separated us from the free world, would now go somewhere along the Narva River and we would be pleased with it. No! We want to live in a Europe where no one lives behind the curtain, no matter what material it is, and where human rights, human dignity, freedoms and equal opportunities for self-realization are guaranteed for all people. What makes Belarusians worse than us? Nothing. These 88 signatures, which are on this statement, and hopefully a strong majority in favour of the vote today, prove that the Riigikogu and the Estonian people are always in solidarity with those whose freedoms are being restricted, and we certainly do not support those who wish to do so. The content of today's statement is actually very simple: democracy or dictatorship? And there's nothing you can do, you have to vote, you can't hide under the table. And the last thing, if I may ask for more time...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U70	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U71	And the last thing that does not directly concern the subject of Belarus, but finally, I would point out that the authors of our constitution must be commended for choosing the model of parliamentary regime for Estonia and for foreseeing that it may not always be best for such countries with long and complicated history to use the President's direct elections. They must be commended for that. I think that the much more balanced approach so far has served us well here in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U72	Thank you. Next, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U73	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, All 34 members of the Reform Party Group signed this statement of support and the Reform Party Group supports the adoption of this statement. This statement of support for democracy in Belarus is certainly necessary, and today is quite the last moment to confirm it with a vote. For the third week now, despite repression, intimidation and persecution, Belarusians who peacefully stand on the streets of Belarus for freedom of decision and democracy need support. It is our duty not to leave the Belarusians alone to face dictators, and certainly we must not accept the reservations of some Western countries about Belarus. It is also our responsibility. The European Union and the West in general must keep the door open to democratic Belarus, to the people who stand for democratic Belarus, and to ensure that the people of Belarus, the people there, can decide on the choice of their future path freely, without fear, without violence or threats. It is our moral duty not to leave Belarus as a toy of dictators. After all, the democratic Western countries do not really have any justification to stand, with their eyes wide open, watching the spread of violence. We know, unfortunately not from a very distant past, that it would only encourage dictators to the next advance. Moldova, Georgia, Ukraine, help! Today's Parliament's statement in support of democracy and civil society in Belarus is therefore important. But if, in a few moments' time, we have adopted this statement in the vote, then even more importantly, what will follow is what will happen next. And this is where we all look demandingly at the government. All signs show that there is no rapid solution in Belarus. This means that there must be a comprehensive, far-reaching plan on how to really support this supportive civil society that stands up for democratic Belarus. And in this regard, as has been said, a demanding Parliament expects the government to take real action. Let's accept this statement! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U74	Thank you. The chair of speech is coming on behalf of Mikhail Lotman for the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U75	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The elections in Belarus were brutally and extensively falsified. For those who are sceptical about this formulation and say that there is not enough evidence, I say that there has been no such brutal and extensive electoral violation in the latest history of the world, even in third-world countries, and there has been no such extensive documentation of electoral violations. There's over a million evidence, including visual evidence, audio evidence, testimony. And it's not just forgery. People have paid for it with blood. Konstantin Šišmakov, a member of the electoral commission of a polling district, did not sign the forgery. He was asked to have 500 more votes written to Lukashenko. He didn't agree to it and said he was going home. He couldn't make it home. Two days later, they found his body in the woods. There are also less dramatic examples of how people have been pressured and have subsequently admitted that their signatures have been forged or given against their will. What I'm saying is that those who are skeptical, it's not all skepticism, it's sick skepticism. Common sense requires joining our assessment. The Belarusian people are benevolent, educated and simply loyal to power. The fact that they were so brutally stolen from the electoral will brought tens of thousands of people to the street in the beginning. I would like to stress that this was a completely peaceful and highly disciplined process, not even the lawns were kneaded. Not to mention what is common in Western democracy, that some shop is being looted in the sense of protest in the meantime. No, they were and are highly disciplined and peaceful manifestations. Dictatorial power answered them in the only way possible, with the only tool in his arsenal. It's violence, it's arresting over a thousand people. About 450 people have been tortured and abused from those who came out and these cases are also medically documented. People have been taunted, raped, raped by police or OMON with rubber clubs, not only women but also men. Several people are currently in hospital. About 80 people are missing. The bodies of about 15 people were found among the missing. I said that the people of Belarus are highly educated. Already in the 17th century... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U76	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U77	As early as the 17th century, the first higher educational institutions in the Russian Empire were in the territory of Belarus. It was a window into Europe before Peter I cut it. And that is so far the nation is educated, benevolent and not aggressive at all. But we also need to remember this, and this is something that Mr Putin and Mr Lukashenko also remember, that during World War II, the strongest partisan movement was precisely in Belarus. That may be one of the brake factors that interferes with military intervention. The point is that the demonstrations we are seeing on the streets of Belarus are in favour of democracy and freedom and are not anti-Russian or anti-Russian in any way. But if there's some kind of military intervention, this situation is about to change. We have been intimidated by Donbass, but we must remember what Mr Putin also knows, that in Donbass, ethnic Russians first stood up against Russian hybrid troops. They were on the front lines. There is no reason to think that Belarus would be different. But this is not just a struggle for freedom. There is now also a national awakening in Belarus, which has already been compared to a singing revolution in this hall. Indeed, Belarusian has never heard as much as it is now in Belarus. The streets have been brought up by the Belarusian national flag, which was already waved in 1918 and was for a short time the Belarusian flag in the 1990s. Enn Frontland said we didn't put this national flag's thesis into this statement. I'm sorry about that, but yes. Some Western politicians have stressed that Belarus is currently not only at the forefront of the fight for freedom, but also, in a sense, an example for us democratic countries. We enjoy our freedom, we can freely criticise our government and country, but there are people who pay for freedom with their lives. We must show solidarity with them. This is not only necessary for Belarus, but also for ourselves. I call on everyone to unanimously support this very, let us say, moderate statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U78	Thank you. Does Aadu Black have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U79	If the regulation allows me, I would say two words as chairman of the Committee on Culture, but above all as President of the Baltic Assembly.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U80	No, I'm sorry I won't.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U81	The regulation that had just been introduced said that representatives of the political groups and committees would get the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U82	As a representative of the Commission, yes, you can indeed take the floor. I read it myself. Here you go, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U83	Ladies and gentlemen, I am most likely the member of the Riigikogu who has been the last to go to Belarus and talk to the people there. True, as a representative of the Riigikogu, I did not even go there for the Riigikogu's expenses and met mainly academic people, professors, spiritual people. It is important to stress that the crisis in Belarus is not a one-off event but a result of long-term development. And it is important to say that both the Baltic Assembly and, for example, our delegation in the Parliamentary Council of the Baltic Sea countries have constantly done this work to help Belarus on a democratic path. Today, for example, Belarus's intelligence has two fears that have been inflicted upon them. One thing is that they have been taught to fear too intrusive the import of democracy, which is the fruit of official propaganda. And the other thing they're afraid of with it is that they've been intimidated by it, is economic isolation. In this sense, it seems to me that our statement today is very well-considered and accurate and meets the expectations of the normal Belarusian intelligence for the better, for progress and for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U84	Thank you. Does Jürgen Ligi have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Special Committee on State Budget Control renounces the right to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U86	Thank you. In that case, I will give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Reinsalu, who is Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U87	Honourable representative of the people! The situation in Belarus is critical. The death of at least four people has been confirmed today, and the fate of dozens, perhaps even hundreds, is unknown, they are gone. The coordination council convened by presidential candidate Svetlana Tikhanovskaya has turned to the Lukashenka regime in vain several times to start the dialogue. However, the Belarusian authorities have started criminal proceedings against the Co-ordination Council on the basis of a charge of violent seizure of power. Two members of the Coordination Board were detained yesterday by the Special Unit OMON. According to recent reports, the Nobel Prize winner Svetlana Aleksijevich has been invited to testify in the framework of a criminal investigation against the Coordination Council tomorrow. The situation in Belarus is serious and requires the full attention of the international community. The fundamental freedoms and human rights of Belarusian citizens, as well as geopolitical stability in our region and throughout Europe, are at stake. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, I assure the Riigikogu that, as a government, we consider it our duty to pay the attention of the international community to the violence born in one of our countries and the gross violation of fundamental rights. The future of Belarus is the choice of the Belarusian people. At the same time, we cannot accept the unjustified and illegal violence that the country is using against its citizens in the heart of Europe. The brutal violation, killing and torture of human rights and fundamental freedoms cannot have a silent acceptance. We must make a maximum contribution to preventing further violence, reaching free elections and maintaining the sovereignty of Belarus. This means, among other things, the need to prevent Russia from interfering with the processes launched in Belarus by force. What has Estonia done specifically? What is happening in Belarus has a direct impact on the security of both Estonia and Europe as a whole. The aim pursued by the Estonian Government is to do everything in its power to stop the use of violence against the people in Belarus, to release political prisoners and to start a peaceful transition of power through political dialogue. In order to achieve this, we are seeking, together with other countries of the same mind, to raise international awareness of [the situation in Belarus], which is why, from the outset, we have played an active role in Belarus as a country. On the day following the elections, the Estonian Heads of State made statements condemning violence and repression. Estonia began to coordinate a joint declaration condemning the foreign ministers of the Nordic and Baltic countries, which came out on 11 August. On the same day, on behalf of the four countries, the High Representative for Foreign Affairs of the European Union, Josep Borrell, proposed that an extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council be convened. It came together on August 14th. In the run-up to the video meeting of foreign ministers of the countries of the European Union, six countries were sent a joint letter to all the Member States of Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Denmark and Estonia on the initiative of Estonia, in which we made concrete proposals to resolve the situation in Belarus. Firstly, to impose targeted sanctions on individual responsible parties in relation to violence and electoral counterfeiting. Secondly, to support citizens and civil society. Thirdly, send a European Union Special Representative to Belarus. Fourthly, to influence other countries together in all kinds of international human rights organisations, this is the work that is already in progress. On 11 August, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs called Vyacheslav Kachanov, Ambassador of Belarus. On behalf of the Estonian state, we stressed that the Belarusian authorities must immediately stop the repressions and that Estonia will monitor what is happening. Three days after the elections, Estonia also raised Belarus for the first time in the UN Security Council. On 18 August, the government formed its views on what was happening in Belarus and decided, inter alia, to allocate EUR 100000 to support Belarusian civil society and the free press. On 18 August, the UN Security Council discussed the situation in Belarus on the initiative of Estonia and the United States. On 20 August, I spoke on the phone with both Svetlana Tikhanovskaya and Vladimir Makei, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Belarus. I can assure you that Svetlana Tikhanovskaya thanked Estonia and the people for their strong support in resolving the Belarusian crisis and defending democracy and human rights. To the Belarusian Foreign Minister Makeile, I explained the position of the Republic of Estonia on the issue of non-recognition of elections in Belarus and stressed the importance of political dialogue, which would lead to the holding of new and honest elections in Belarus. I also informed him of the readiness of the Prime Ministers of the three Baltic States to make a visit to Belarus to promote political dialogue. Regrettably, the Belarusian Minister for Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the Belarusian State, did not currently consider this to be relevant in their view. On 21 August, we agreed with the Latvian Foreign Minister that, like Lithuania, we will introduce national sanctions for those Belarusian officials involved in violence and electoral counterfeiting. It is important to act quickly and work on enforcing these sanctions is ongoing. The issue of Belarus is also central to the informal meeting of EU Foreign Ministers in Berlin on Thursday and Friday. Estonia is preparing further discussions in the UN Security Council format. The European Union has responded promptly to what is happening in Belarus. It is appropriate that the European Union has been able to consensually shape its assessment of what is happening in Belarus. The stronger the pressure of the international community, the greater the pressure on the Belarusian authorities to stop using violence against their own people. The most effective and visible arena is the UN Security Council, whose mandate includes conflict prevention. Alongside the UN, the European Union and NATO, we are also active in the OSCE and the Council of Europe. In order to find a solution to the current crisis, it is necessary to start a dialogue between the various parties involved in Belarus. Estonia supports the will of the Belarusian people to bring about change in the country. Prevention of escalation of violence, release of detainees and prosecution of those responsible for violence are essential. Social dialogue and a peaceful political solution are needed, which requires the holding of new free and democratic elections. On behalf of the Government of the Republic, I welcome Parliament's statement to be voted on in a moment's time. I can confirm that the Government of the Republic treats this as an unambiguous mandate and an obligation to act actively in the resolution of the political crisis in Belarus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-08-25_U88	Thank you. That concludes the speeches and closes the negotiations. There were no amendments to the draft, and we can go to the vote. First of all, it's a sergeant. Ladies and gentlemen, to the final vote, I will put draft 223 in support of the Riigikogu statement on 'democracy and civil society in Belarus'. Please take a stand and vote. There are 92 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the application, no respondents and no abstentions. The Riigikogu statement 'In support of democracy and civil society in Belarus' has been adopted. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that we have made history today and perhaps we have contributed with a small step to the movement of the Belarusian people towards democracy and freedom. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 6 p.m.
