ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Hello, Mr. Prime Minister. We will begin the additional session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened on the basis of § 49 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu on 30 March of this year and the prepared agenda of the Management Board. First of all, as always, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Please, on behalf of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates three draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. First of all, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the introduction of the 'Stabilisation Reserve'. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme when this draft is being processed in the Riigikogu. Secondly, to implement measures relating to the spread of the Corona virus causing COVID-19 disease, the draft law amending the laws relating to the State's additional budget for 2020. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, will represent the Government of the Republic when this draft is being processed. Thirdly, it is the draft law amending the law and other laws relating to measures relating to the spread of the corona virus causing COVID-19 disease. And fourth, there's an extra budget bill. I'm so sorry, but I'm missing a page! [[Voices from the floor.]] I just have the wrong paper printed with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U3	If colleagues agree, as I understand it, the government will transmit this draft electronically. There's more coming anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U4	All drafts...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U6	... arrive for you electronically. Power and strength! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U7	Thank you! Next, please, on behalf of Jaak Juske Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U8	Dear Chairman, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ten members of the Social Democratic Party Group will submit an inquiry to Mrs Mailis Reps, Minister for Education and Science, and the subject will be the organisation of home learning during an emergency. As we know, with a government decision in emergency situations, we have closed our schools and thousands of schoolchildren and schoolchildren are directed at home education. This is undoubtedly an extraordinary event in the history of the Estonian school and a major challenge for schools, teachers and families. On the basis of this exceptional challenge, we have six questions for the Minister. If you comment on them briefly, we are interested in the Ministry's feedback in contact with local governments and schools. What are the main and major problems related to home learning? What is the coordinating role of the Ministry in organising home learning across the country? Undoubtedly, one of the main problems is the very heavy burden that many schools have experienced for students in this situation. How has the Ministry seen counseling both teachers and families to cope with this burden? Does the Ministry also intend to develop a "good practice" rulebook to organise home learning in the most sensible way? And the fate of state examinations, final exams, which are known to depend on the duration of the emergency situation, is also an important issue. In this context, we ask whether the Ministry is prepared to organise the exams in a partial way, for example, and whether new versions of exam formats have been developed, for example. For these questions, please answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U9	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U10	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Democrats are submitting an inquiry to the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige. We would like the Minister for Social Affairs to come and explain the situation that has arisen with regard to the place fees for nursing homes. The high price increase in place fees at the home has put people in a forced situation, where many have to consider themselves unemployed, whether to start caring for their own family and perhaps even to take care of their own home. On the basis of this, we are going to ask four questions and read one of them in advance. Has the additional budget submitted to the Riigikogu, with a financial amount of 2.5 billion euros, taken into account the additional support to local governments so that they can make the nursing home available for a pension even during the crisis? There are also a number of other issues. Pingpong does not really help people between the local government and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U11	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts and two inquiries. The Bureau will decide on their future procedure in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's go through the presence check! 63 members of the Riigikogu are present, 38 are absent. An additional session of the Riigikogu has a quorum, as more than half of the members of the Riigikogu are present. The next step is to update and endorse the agenda. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's session of the Riigikogu regarding the transfer of the draft Additional Budget Act 2020. On the basis of § 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I will add to the agenda of today's sitting and add to the second item the political statement of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. As pursuant to § 55 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the agenda for the additional sitting must be approved at the beginning of the session, I am voting on the agenda for the additional sitting of the third plenary session of the Riigikogu on 2 April. Please take a stand and vote. There are 63 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U12	We are going to the first item on the agenda today, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for its adoption. I'm opening negotiations. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish to speak? It doesn't look like it. In this case, the proposal of the commission is the final vote on the draft 97. I am voting on the draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act, initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 97. Please take a stand and vote. There are 61 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U13	I now ask the Prime Minister Jüri Ratas of the Speaker's Office for his political statement on the handover of this year's draft extra budget law to the Riigikogu. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U14	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good journalists! Happy people of Estonia! By this morning, 15725 corona virus detection tests have been carried out in Estonia, with 858 people diagnosed with disease, accounting for 5% of all tested subjects. In the last day, 1,372 samples were analysed, of which 6% or 79 tested positive. 85 people are currently in hospital care, 16 of whom require intensive care. I wish them all a heartfelt healing! We've got 45 people out of the hospital. Unfortunately, the honourable Riigikogu, good Estonia, we have lost 11 Estonians to the COVID-19 virus. I would like to express my heartfelt condolences here to all their loved ones and to all their acquaintances. A total of more than 937000 cases have been reported worldwide, of which around 500000 in Europe. 200,000 people have recovered from the disease, and more than 47,000 people have lost their lives to it. Three weeks ago, the World Health Organization assessed the spread of the corona virus as a global epidemic. Europe and other countries of the world have introduced exceptional restrictions to combat the virus in order to protect the lives and health of their people. These, in turn, have a unique impact on the normal functioning of the economies of all regions and the world as a whole. Due to the widespread spread of the corona virus, Estonia also declared a state of emergency on the night of 12 March and imposed restrictions that significantly changed the way we all used to live. The scientific council, which advises the leading government committee on the fight against the virus, has so far assessed Estonia's steps to limit the spread of the virus to be correct and effective. The increase in the number of infections has remained stable and we have been able to avoid feared exponential growth. Honourable Riigikogu! The government will continue to discuss the next steps in the fight against the COVID-19 virus at the office meeting starting today at 14:00. If the restrictions work and we all take them seriously, our scientists' forecasts show that we can control the spread of the disease and ensure that our medical system is coping. Everything just described is the context for today's 2020 extra budget transfer and discussions in the honourable Riigikogu and in Estonian society as a whole. Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! Yesterday, the Ministry of Finance presented to the Cabinet its economic forecast, which is significantly different from the much more optimistic estimates of some time ago. At the beginning of April, the Ministry's analysts estimate Estonia's gross domestic product for the fall of 8% this year. However, this assessment does not take into account the additional measures that you are proposing today, which are aimed at mitigating the expected economic downturn. Several sectors of our economy, such as accommodation and catering, entertainment and transport, have already suffered very painful shocks in the face of difficult circumstances. The overall decline in consumption, the disruption of the supply chains needed and the widespread financial difficulties also threaten other areas, the losses of which have so far been smaller. The starting point and speed of our economic recovery depend on many factors that are very difficult to measure accurately in the current situation. Without being able to pinpoint the current situation and developments in the near future, it is also difficult to find a model for forecasting our future. Recovery, first of all, depends, of course, on how long the current restrictions on preventing the corona virus will last, both for us and for other countries. It is also very important to maintain, as far as possible, the daily income of our people, our people's bread on the table, the vitality of businesses, and the courage of everyone to consume and also to conduct economic transactions during this period. At the same time, the public budget and public finances are hit hard by lower revenues from both labour and consumption taxes. In addition, we must take into account the growing expenditures in the social and health sectors, which already account for the largest share of the country's daily costs. We have already done, and we will have to make further expenses directly linked to resolving the current health crisis and ensuring that the country is prepared in an emergency. We have made a clear choice in the fight against the virus, and this choice is one and one. This choice is to preserve our people's lives, to preserve our people's health. As a result, our economy is suffering, and certainly our finances are suffering, and in the current rapidly worsening crisis, our unemployment may increase to 10%, and the recession will reach at least 8%. I think it is very important to stress that this is not just a result of our own decisions and the restrictions we have implemented. Estonia is a small and open economy, which is why much of the losses are caused by the situation and prospects of our main trading partners, the whole of Europe and the large global economy. In addition to Estonia, the rest of Europe is closed. In addition to our efforts to maintain jobs in Estonia and stimulate domestic demand, we are greatly affected by the entire European economy and world market demand. In the current situation, a greater recession is inevitable. All the economic measures that the government has already taken or is still planning to take are aimed at mitigating these effects. We must support our working people and our businesses so that the fall that has hit us is deeper and faster, and that we can overcome the difficulties with the lowest possible losses. The additional budget for 2020 presented to the honourable Riigikogu today is approximately 2.6 billion euros. It includes a package of economic measures adopted by the government office on 19 March, which supports our companies through KredEx, Enterprise Estonia and the Rural Promotion Foundation. It also reflects the labour market allowance, sickness benefits and tax decisions of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund. With an additional budget, we will also allocate more than EUR 200 million to healthcare for three months to cover the exceptional costs of coronavir. In addition, the budget addresses measures with a longer impact, such as the deferral of tax debts and the temporary suspension of contributions to the second pillar of the funded pension, as well as significant excise reductions for businesses and individuals, and the partial compensation for the direct costs and losses of events that have been excluded as a result of the eradication of the virus. Good Riigikogu! We want to support local authorities, which are closest to our people and their concerns, from an additional budget. We want to support local authorities and ask for your consent to support them through crisis relief measures and investments. It is precisely those municipalities that we want to support today's restrictions on movement. Yes, I am talking primarily about the islands of Estonia. In this additional budget, you will also see contributions to IT development, education and research and other areas related to emergency situations and extraordinary costs. Honourable Riigikogu! I sincerely thank the people of Estonia who are currently at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus. I also congratulate all those who support them in their daily work. Respect and gratitude are due to all Estonians who, through their responsible daily behaviour, control the spread of the virus. I warmly thank all the people who, today, are at home and do not meet other people in defiance of these inconveniences and restrictions, to avoid close contact. I'm sure it's awkward and a huge effort, but thank you to them! I am also warmly grateful to all politicians, the Reform Party, the Social Democrats, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Fatherland Party and the Centre Party, as well as to those parties that are not present in the Riigikogu today. I am grateful to both the opposition and the coalition, who have contributed with work and worthwhile thoughts over the last difficult weeks, too, your small aid steps will be very helpful to specific institutions and you will certainly make a contribution in the future. Thank you. In addition, the ideas of all officials, entrepreneurs, municipalities and representative organisations, and of all our people, which have been a valuable input into these discussions and solutions, have been extremely necessary. I thank the Riigikogu for agreeing to proceed with this budget at an accelerated pace. Thanks for that. I would also like to thank the body of elders, who have made this decision. Thank you to the Chairman of the Riigikogu! I would like you to have a serious and constructive debate. I would also like to wish this to all the committees, because this budget is accompanied by a very large package of legislative amendments, which will certainly mean a lot of intense working hours for you in the coming weeks, both day and night. Thank you for listening! I wish you the strength and strength of the debate for Estonia and the health of the people of Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U15	Thank you, Prime Minister. Pursuant to § 155 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the Board of the Riigikogu and the Prime Minister agreed that no questions will be asked to the rapporteur. I'll open the negotiations. In doing so, all political groups will be able to make a speech on the floor, with a duration of 5 + 3 minutes. First of all, on behalf of the Group of the Reform Party, I would like to ask Kaja Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U16	Thank you. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U17	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U18	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! This crisis caught us all by surprise. In many families, some people have already lost their jobs, and many are worried about losing their incomes. That is why we will not spend a minute in this Riigikogu more than it is necessary for the first measures of the aid package, which will provide relief for employers and workers, to take effect as soon as possible. There are a number of steps in the supplementary budget that the Reform Party considers appropriate. The provision of loan guarantees and working resources to companies through KredEx and aid measures aimed at ensuring people's income through the unemployment fund and the sickness fund are only right. It is important that these measures reach people and businesses without excessive bureaucracy and quickly. In times of crisis, taking a reasonable amount of credit by the state to keep the economy going and to reduce the sharp decline in people's incomes to cover the cost of coronavir is a reasonable step. Ardo Hansson, former Governor of Eesti Pank, said that today's government stands on the shoulders of Ansip and Ligi. That's very right. If the current and previous governments had collected reserves, it would be much easier for us to cope with the current crisis. At the same time, I would like to warn all those who think that the country can solve all the problems. This crisis is likely to be a marathon, not a sprint. And we must not take advantage of all financial resources in the first two months of the crisis. In the next phase of the crisis, support measures must be targeted, such as the temporary acquisition of a holding of a large enterprise or investment in infrastructure. Although, on the day of the announcement of the emergency situation, the Prime Minister said that the crisis is not the time for political battles, we are saddened to see that the government is trying to take advantage of this crisis in order to push through proposals that have no connection with the resolution of this crisis. The Government's desire to cut excise duty on fuel and other energy carriers is not the most burning issue of the current crisis. Firstly, fuel and energy prices in the world have made a major failure during the crisis. Secondly, it is likely that the impact of the reduction of excise duty will not be fully passed on to final prices in the long term. However, the tax revenue that has been given easily means that the country has fewer opportunities to provide people with the necessary medical, social and other services during the crisis. The Reform Party has a number of proposals. Firstly, the state will not escape cost savings during the crisis, as revenue from the state budget will fall rapidly and to a large extent. Socially, it is not fair for a country to continue to live in the old way, while a large number of people working in the private sector lose 20% to 30% of their income or remain in employment at all. After the first quarter, it will be much less painful to cut the public budget than to start in the second half of the year. Therefore, the country should cut its operating and wage costs by 10% as soon as possible in areas that do not deal directly with the corona crisis. Secondly, we need to proactively channel more money into health and social care, in order to speed up the treatment procedures that have been postponed due to the corona crisis, but are needed for people. We need to be prepared to be able to provide people with the medical and social services that their health needs immediately when the corona crisis comes to an end. Thirdly, I believe that the specific bottlenecks in the various sectors of the economy must be taken into consideration in order to trigger the economy quickly, rather than allowing everyone to have something small. We could focus on companies that are the biggest employers and taxpayers, companies that can quickly find new production and export routes after the crisis. Flagship ships of the Estonian economy need tailor-made solutions from the state, whether temporary participation, state capital injection or other special solutions. A crisis fund in the tourism sector until the end of the year could also be set up for EAS, as the tourism sector certainly needs longer-term assistance. However, small businesses are also hit, who must not be forgotten during this crisis. Fourthly, the exporting industry needs short-term guarantees from the State to keep production and employees until the economic situation begins to stabilise. The crisis in the industrial sector can only come in a month or two, so today we need to give the industrialists first confidence in continuing economic activity. And fifthly, the public has already repeatedly thought that we need a plan to get out of the corona crisis. I fully agree with this because the current crisis is likely to be long. The relaxation of restrictions on economic activity depends to a large extent on how we can suppress the spread of the virus. As a society, we must seek a reasonable balance between public health and economic activity. The current additional budget is intended to put an end to the fire, but we certainly need a plan to get the economy that survived the fire back to work. We have offered these solutions and we will offer them more. I also call on the government to act in a state-of-the-art manner and to focus on the measures that are really needed to help people, to keep the economy alive and to relaunch it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U19	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U20	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! Good guys in the hall! First of all, I would like to congratulate the government for the great effort it has made at the expense of sleeping hours to draw up an additional budget. On the basis of the speech by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, it can be argued that in the event of an unexpected and urgent crisis, the state will not leave its inhabitants in trouble. Many companies have had to tighten up their activities, and with it, hard decisions have to be made in the staff. In order to ensure that the changes are not so painful, the unemployment fund has done a good job by channelling EUR 250 million into companies. It is now time to use the unemployment fund's reserves. It has been collected over the years from people's wages and, in distress, workers have the right to receive support from them. It has been the custom in Estonia to make affordable state budgets and loan decisions have been carefully considered. The low loan burden allows the state to raise additional money to the extent necessary at present and on favourable terms. A loan agreement of EUR 750 million between the Nordic Investment Bank and Estonia will help finance the economic measures needed to mitigate the effects of the Coronavirus. However, it is important to note that after this loan transaction, Estonia remains the country with the lowest loan burden in the European Union. In a situation where many people are forced to stay at home and the normal circulation of money has been hit hard, KredEx can provide EUR 1.5 billion in loan guarantees to secure existing and new bank loans. Businesses generally plan ahead for several years and, in the event of unexpected difficulties, state support is essential. Estonia is also known for its ICT sector and start-ups. In the current situation, where the world is on the brink of great change, smart solutions enable us to stand out globally. The corresponding support measures are also foreseen for macro- and micro-enterprises and farmers. In the business world, when possible, large investments will be made, especially at a time of crisis when prices are falling. I therefore congratulate the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, and his team's decision to allocate 125 million euros to Eesti Energia so that they can move forward with the construction of the new oil shale plant Enefit 280. This is an investment that has a positive impact on the entire Estonian economy for several years, but above all on the people of Ida-Virumaa. The additional budget also pays attention to local authorities. Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, has confirmed that the local authorities will be kept with the revenue base agreed so far during the crisis. Municipalities do not need to fear cutting the revenue base and therefore there is no need to cut budgetary costs, which in turn helps to support local entrepreneurship. The support package for local governments amounts to EUR 100 million. Of course, the medical sector needs to spend more than usual and an additional EUR 200 million will be allocated to the sickness fund for this purpose. Since yesterday, the wage increase of health care workers has also come into force, for which Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik has stood. Human health is a priority number one and the related costs are paid. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I call on you to deal constructively with the additional budget and with a good spirit of cooperation, and I believe that the government has already considered plans for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U21	Thank you. Next, I call a speech chair on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Paul Puustusmaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U22	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! We're going through a very difficult time. They're quite extraordinary. It is possible that it is not even wrong to say that we have not had such a crisis in Europe for a hundred years. This is a crisis from which we can actually emerge in health only together, acting together. I thank you for the speeches that set out the measures with which we are trying to help. And indeed, this extra budget, which the government has now proposed, has a breath of additional help in it. I also thank the opposition for its speech, which stressed that people need to understand that this is not a sprint, but a marathon. It's a long run, it's not easy to come out of, it's gonna be really hard. We have to be ready for this. I also thank you for the thoughts that it is very important for us, apart from the adoption of an additional budget, to prepare, right now, the measures that are needed to get out of this crisis. From the additional budget of the coalition government that has come here, there is a real desire to help. There is a really strong and statesmanly behaviour on the part of politicians who, through this additional budget, have put in place measures that will allow them to emerge from the crisis with the least possible damage. Thanks for that! This additional budget will benefit as many members of our society as possible already, but, as Kaja Kallas said, it is about putting a fire out, but I believe that additional measures are coming. But what has been done so far is an extremely good and strong job. I join the words of the Centre Party that the Government must be thanked for the very swift and thorough work that has been done in the development of an additional budget. It contributes to the reduction of projected economic losses, it helps local authorities, helps to maintain jobs, supports entrepreneurs, supports people in particular. Good fellows! Ladies and gentlemen, Like I said, we can only get out of this together. I ask both the opposition and the coalition to support this additional budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U23	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Group of Helir-Valdor Seeder Isamaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U24	Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to start by thanking all the members of the Riigikogu for being prepared to hold an additional session today in order to begin the work on the prepared legislative package, and we will do so as a matter of urgency. I very much hope that this debate in this Riigikogu will be constructive, but at the same time very demanding. At the moment, we are dealing with a situation in which we have not been in Estonia before. We have two crises at once that amplify each other. We are experiencing a 'health or health crisis', a 'corona crisis' and, at the same time, an economic crisis. As a result, a special situation has been put in place which has placed restrictions on all areas of life. The organisation of the economy, but also our own everyday life and all other areas of life, is limited. We have reached a situation that we have never practiced thoroughly in various crisis exercises, however many of them have been. Maybe it hasn't been possible to do that. Indeed, legislation and the opportunities it provides for us to act in the face of a crisis - the laws that we have today are intended to act in normal circumstances. We are now seeing how many laws, dozens and dozens of laws, need to be amended so that we can act flexibly and operationally, authorities can make decisions, financial resources can be shared, and fundamental rights and freedom of action are guaranteed, while health and security are also guaranteed. I therefore very much hope that we will take seriously not only this additional budget, which has received a great deal of attention, but also this second draft, where more than 30 legislative amendments have been incorporated into one package. And there is another package that contains a series of legislative amendments relating to the processing of the additional budget. There will probably be a debate here, a debate about whether all the proposals are specifically linked to the crisis. Let's discuss and think this through. But I, having studied this package, dare say that all the proposals are directly or indirectly linked to the crisis, and perhaps we also need to amend a number of other laws. Now, about the extra budget. The package for economic recovery, which has been very much discussed, is mostly passed on to KredEx, the Rural Promotion Foundation, the Enterprise Development Foundation. It is not possible to create a universal law in Parliament or rules that would work very well in detail, be directed in the best way and be effective. In this case, the responsibility for implementation remains with these implementing bodies and depends much on the experience, wisdom and ability of their officials to implement it. Secondly, the health package is more than EUR 250 million, which also needs to be implemented urgently. It includes obtaining personal protective equipment, certain expenses in the health system, hospitals and laboratories, getting tests, etc. It is extremely important to implement it quickly, and we will probably adopt it. Further labour market measures, the start of which does not depend on the decisions of this hall, but the continuation of which will certainly depend. For this, too, certain laws need to be amended. I very much hope that the authorities will reach, at least next week, with their organisational and technical preparations so far that they will be physically able to accept these statements and that this assistance will also reach our businesses, employers and employees. I'm asking for an extra three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U25	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U26	Next comes this part of the supplementary budget, which is probably the most controversial and which has been through here. I would call it a shadow and it includes a wide range of financial separations, grants, measures, competences granted to the local authorities, investments in roads, powers for the Tax and Customs Board to reduce tax interest rates, the deferral of loans and tax debts, changes in excise duties, tax policy, etc. I think that this part of the additional budget will certainly find the most lively debate, and I think this is where we need to be very demanding and careful. Careful, precisely in the sense that we certainly cannot talk about very short-term effects in this crisis, and this package of measures will not be the last. We need to be able to look at what the nature of the crisis is and which areas need to be supported more precisely so that exiting the crisis is as soon as possible and the consequences are as minimal as possible. And considering previous crises, not just crises, but even our sovereign economy, it is very important to maintain our domestic labour force in the labour market. It would be irreparable if people of working age decided to leave Estonia to Finland or to other countries to work in better hunting lands because of the crisis. It is extremely difficult or almost impossible to make up for it later. So we will try to do our best and find maximum consensus so that this package can be implemented as soon as possible. In any case, the Isamaa Group will do its best and will be prepared to compromise during this debate in order to find the best possible solution and consensus in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U27	Thank you. Next, Indrek Saar on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The last month has shown us how things that seemed to be deadly can collapse in a short time. This time has shown how ruthless the corona virus is, which is now being combated worldwide. For exactly three weeks there has been an emergency situation in Estonia. I will take this opportunity to thank our doctors and the entire medical system for this selfless work in the name of human health and lives. I would like to thank all those people who are responsible for our society in this critical situation, who have guaranteed the provision of vital services and the management of the crisis, thanks to whom we have food on the table. I would also like to thank those who are conscientious about the restrictions that are essential to prevent the spread of the disease. I would also like to congratulate the government here on all the sincere actions that have been taken to manage and slow the crisis. In these three weeks, it has happened tremendously. On the day, many people lost their jobs and income. Several businesses, shops and small businesses have already closed their doors today. The wave of redundancies, forced leave and wage cuts started in mid-March is gathering momentum. But, unfortunately, greater trials are still ahead. How long the crisis is going to last and how deep it's going to be, that's what none of us really know. There is now an additional budget in the Riigikogu, which should only include a crisis package and, above all, a crisis package aimed at ensuring the livelihood of people without work and income, saving Estonian companies and, of course, ensuring that our health care system continues to function and that people can be treated in today's exceptional circumstances. But here I have to quote the recent statement made by the Social Democratic Party Board on 31 March, in which we said: 'Jüri Ratas said in his address to the people last week that we must be our society in this situation, not mine. Let us hope that the Prime Minister's word has weight and that the government will also follow it. Today is not the time and place to implement our electoral promises with an additional budget, on the pretext of the crisis and without a thorough social debate. On the contrary, at a time of crisis, where everyone needs to compromise, society also expects this from politicians. Words lose the strength of persuasion if they are not followed by an example. ' We called on the government to come up with a budget that would only include crisis measures. Unfortunately, the government was unable to resist the human temptation to include points in the budget from the election programmes of coalition parties and initiatives with a populist taste. At the same time, it does not seem to us that we have had much time to do so when we first examined the bill, that, unfortunately, it does not provide protection for a number of groups of society who have been hit particularly badly during the crisis. Among other things, the coalition has decided to go after the second pillar of the pension and stop making payments in it. This irresponsible step clearly cuts future pensions and is financial nonsense, because in times of crisis, pension funds could buy together assets that would quickly recover in good times. We've already tried it once, and there's a lesson to be learned from it. At the same time, it is not possible to understand how the government intends to support, for example, self-employed and freelancers, or those who have worked under a contract of employment or a contract of command. The initial feedback provided by businesses on measures targeting micro and small enterprises has also been extremely critical. At a time when the social sector and health care urgently need extra money and fuel prices on the world market are at their lowest levels in recent decades, the government is going to lower excise duties. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U29	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U30	The person who obtained diesel is likely to win a small part of it. At the same time, the fees of many nursing homes arose yesterday, which means that some people may not be able to pay any more for caring for their loved ones. The situation is particularly harsh when the elderly mother or father's children themselves have been victims of wage cuts during the crisis. Unfortunately, for the benefit of those most vulnerable, there is nothing in the supplementary budget. Concerns about this budget are likely to remain, but they have already been available since we have had the opportunity to get closer acquainted with the budget. Honourable Riigikogu! On 12 March, when the Prime Minister made a political statement before Parliament, Priit Sibul, President of the Isamaa Group, said in his speech that experts should be heard when seeking solutions to the crisis. At the time, I expressed my hope that the government coalition had learned something and was really going to listen to experts. However, if you look at the extra budget now, it seems that, in many ways, it once again remained mere words. It seems somewhat characteristic that listening to experts is rather selective in the hearing ability of the current coalition. The Social Democrats support the rapid adoption of the crisis budget and the enforcement of actual crisis measures. Sincerely! For a moment we forget the electoral promises that are not involved and solve the real concerns of Estonian people and Estonian companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U31	Thank you. The political groups have spoken. The Prime Minister wanted to make a small speech at the end. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U32	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! I very much agree with what Mr Puustusmaa said that only together can we get out of this, and I also agree with what Mr Seeder said that we are in two crises today: we are in a health crisis and we are in an economic crisis. And we don't really know how long this is gonna last. I am still of the opinion that today we must act every moment, every second as our society. All of us together, but also each of us individually, if we make an effort, we will come out of this outbreak. Perhaps it sounds strange from this Riigikogu speech chair, but, good Kaja Kallas, I agree that the Reform Party has done a lot of good, and I say this quite sincerely. But I want to say that the Fatherland, which has been in government most of the time in this century, has also pursued a very conservative fiscal policy, just like the Reform Party. And I agree that the reserves we have today, which have been the subject of very large political debates, we can see that we have done the right thing in collecting these reserves. I think that the Social Democrats, the Centre Party and the EKRE, but also the Greens and the Free Party, who are not here today, have made every effort to prepare for difficult times. I think that the state must act and act counter-cyclically today, i.e. in times of recession, to make investments and to give maximum support to people and businesses. I understand the criticisms that are being made about reducing excise duty, but I say that also those people who are going to stay out of work if we look at the situation at the individual level will have to pay their utilities, bills, be it gas, be it electricity, be it fuel. And a reduction in excise duty will certainly ease that. As you know, we are not doing this with a so-called "open time" or a "open bill" that is for two years. It also supports the business sector very much. I fully agree that we must support our economic pride, flagships in the private sector as well. We can't let them get under water, we can't let them drown. We have to do everything in our power to save them. The guarantees, as I said, have grown from 1 billion to 1.5 billion. And now from this exit plan, from this strategic plan. It's no secret we're working on it today. It's being prepared. Specialists, advisors, actors in their field do so. But I want to tell you one thing, honourable Riigikogu, and that cannot be misunderstood. We're not out of it today. Can't make it look like the hardest time is over. No, it's not. This morning's numbers and information referred to a very difficult situation in Estonia. But we're working on a strategic plan. Can I have three more minutes? This state budget review yesterday we decided and recorded that the state budget review...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U33	Unfortunately, there is no way.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U34	... the lead committee will present its proposals to the government to save public expenditure during the second quarter of 2020 and we will take them into account when drawing up the budget for next year. Finally, I would like to say that I thank the Estonian press, the fourth power. I thank the Estonian press that they have been professional and operational; they have killed false news. I thank both private journalism and national broadcasting, be it ETV+ or ETV or Radio 4. What I certainly want to say is that what the press has said, be it Ekspress Media or Eesti Meedia, about people staying at home has helped people understand the situation. What the Estonian press has done is very important. Newspapers must be supported today; journalism is an organic part of Estonia's success. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the authority, in particular, once again. I would like to thank Helir-Valdor Seeder and Fatherland, Mart Helmet and EKRE, who have actually brought this package here for discussion, and the Centre Party, who have all been having a very difficult discussion these past few days. I also, of course, thank the opposition for its very constructive, constructive and professional attitude. I think this is where the debate in the Riigikogu is and the best solution is to be found. This is not just about the budget, but about a very large number of laws, as said by the President of the Fatherland. Unfortunately, I think you have quite a little time, which is why you must work very quickly, quickly to find the best solutions and overcome this difficult situation in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-04-02_U35	Thank you, Prime Minister. I also thank all my colleagues, all the political groups of the Riigikogu for holding an additional sitting. Today's trial is over. Be well! Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
