ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U1	Good morning, Sire. Let's start our three-day briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. 47 members of the Riigikogu are present and 54 are absent. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps and Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. As our rules of procedure require, the members of the registered Riigikogu will first be able to submit the question. There are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to reply. After that, the author of the question has the right to ask a question to be specified, and the member of the Riigikogu can ask the question from the floor. We have 15 questions registered for ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U2	First, please ask a question on Riina Sikkut, answers Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U3	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! In recent months, when registering Question Time at Tuesday's lunch, it is actually difficult to imagine what the situation has become by Wednesday Question Time. It is often the case that the Prime Minister, as captain, has to explain the decisions or choices made by members of his team. So is this week. Yesterday, news came out that Martin Helme proposed that Mart Järvik be appointed to the Council of the Rural Promotion Foundation. I started smiling about reading.ee's political joke, but it was real news. Indeed, Finance Minister Martin Helme proposed the appointment of Mart Järvik as a member of the MES Council. The same Mart Järvik, for whom you said: "The minister was released because I lacked confidence in him. 'The same Mart Järvik who, as Minister of State Secretary, considered 'exceeding his powers'. The same Mart Järvik who, as minister, wanted to put his advisor Urmas Arumäe on the board of the MES. Perhaps now, in the opinion of the Minister, the person who cannot be trusted to make political decisions as a minister is appropriate to direct and monitor how our agriculture and rural areas are financed. Our farmers and rural developers can probably be sure that Henn Põllea's machine will find efficient use and that all Wi-Fi devices, smoke detectors and surveillance sensors will be found in the MES premises. But can farmers and rural developers equally be sure that the transparency and independence of rural development funding are still ensured? My question would be: how do you appreciate the proposal by Minister of Finance Martin Helme to appoint Mart Järvik to the MES Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, first of all, thank you very much for the question. The Board of the Rural Promotion Foundation is the highest management body of the Foundation, the Board plans the activities of the Foundation, organises the management of the Foundation and, as you said on your question, supervises the activities of the Foundation. In order to carry out its tasks, the Supervisory Board shall have the rights and obligations under the law and this Statute. The Council is three-to-five members, and the members of the Council are appointed by the Minister for Rural Affairs for a period of five years. And now, it is important that at least one member of the Council is appointed on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. The Minister for Rural Affairs has the right, whatever the reason, to recall a member of the Council at any time. The Minister of Finance considered the former Minister of Rural Affairs suitable for the appointment of a member. The articles of association should also be reviewed. The statutes state that, by virtue of the statutes, the members of the Foundation's supervisory board may not be... Different exclusions are brought out here. Your question was about this team, or the introduction to the question was that the subjects would change quickly. Well, of course, the world changes quickly, too. You must be prepared and, of course, always answer the questions of honourable members of the Riigikogu. You said the Prime Minister is, if that's what you can say about the government, the leader of this team or team. That is the case and, of course, I am prepared to bear that responsibility. I have never said that I don't trust Mart Järvik, I don't know, as a member of the Council of the Rural Promotion Foundation. He certainly did his job as Minister for Rural Affairs as well as he could and received it, and I think he certainly also has the experience and knowledge to realise there. You brought the parallel of his counselor, as far as I know, you also said that in your question. Parallel in this sense is not comparable: one is the Governing Board, the other is the Council. Nobody's talking about management right now. Of course, all the transparency and independence that you have highlighted in your question is very important. This is a proposal from the Minister of Finance, it does not go through the government, it does not require a decision by the government. If your next question is whether I trust the Minister of Finance, then: I certainly do.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U5	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U6	Thank you. I don't know if I can tell you that fortunately Mart Järvik is no longer a member of your team. Martin Helme still is. Yeah, it's his decision to call the MES council. I must say sincerely that Martin Helme has surprised me with his ability. On the one hand, I am sincerely surprised at the enthusiasm and expertise he is carrying out this dream of Helir-Valdor Seeder of a poor pensioner, but as Minister of Finance he is coming to the Monetary Affairs Committee with successively complex drafts, transposition of directives, for example, yesterday we discussed the transposition of the Money Laundering and Terrorism Directive, and in addition he has the time and will to deal with the human resources policy of the Home Minister's administration, resolve the long-standing conflicts between the Ministry of Defence and the founders of the windmill park, and also participate regularly in the radio programme. True, so far, he's mostly hidden in his father's shadow, but I admit he has the potential to come out of that shadow. On the last Sunday, Martin Helme took up foreign policy and defined foreign policy concepts. A common understanding of definitions of basic concepts is very important. Now I quote: 'International law is to formalise the positions of power in international relations into a legal language, after all. International law is never a valid thing. It justifies the various ambitions and agreements between the great powers. And then our fools believe it's a nuclear weapon from small countries. ' Did Finance Minister Martin Helme express the understanding of international law discussed and agreed in this government? Is that the government's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U7	Thank you, good questioner. First of all, I would like to thank you for, as you stand within the framework of the question you have asked: the situation has developed. You pointed out one, two, three, four, five steps (maybe I forgot something I didn't mention), and I'm trying to respond to all of these five steps. On the one hand, you congratulate Martin Helme on being able to deal with major issues. You mentioned various initiatives, you mentioned money laundering [the Directive]. I will also mention, for example, the same cooperation between the public and private sectors. In fact, the government is looking very seriously at this today and not just at road investment, road infrastructure. This should, in fact, be seen more broadly in the entire public sector. Perhaps there are still opportunities where we can realise this cooperation between the public and private sectors. I know that from my own hands. At one time it was self-employed at the local government level in the education sector. There was a main weight bowl of this: on one side there was a time when we could design the school environment for modernization, repair it, and on the other side it was always how much it would cost the state and the public sector, the taxpayer. At the time, we chose to take a faster step towards shaping the school environment. So, indeed, I think Mr Helme has done very serious work on public-private cooperation projects, Mr Aab, Minister of Public Administration, is very seriously involved here. So, yes, in that sense, you have the right to a big subject. Money laundering, which you mentioned. I've had meetings in the United States on this subject, and I'm planning on doing them in Scandinavia. This is a very serious matter for us. On the one hand, I think it all has to be left behind, but these very difficult lessons to take note of and go on. We see today that the picture has improved significantly in the Estonian banking sector, and this is positive. There is another weight here when we bring in this aspect of the Minister of Finance again. He has said that, but we cannot go to the other extreme, so for example, we are beginning to discourage entrepreneurship. In that sense, you're right. You're upset about the windmills. I've answered about the windmills, I've met myself, by the way, Mr. Wordlegs. So you might as well, I don't know if you're blaming me or not to blame me for doing it myself during the previous government and during this government. And that's what we're gonna have to do. We have environmental objectives, we have security issues and we have disputes with the private sector. Of course, good solutions must be found. And don't be mad that the politician is on a radio show. I guess you guys go on different radio shows, too. They still want to say what they stand for. It's not a bad thing. Now international law. I would say that international law governs the behaviour of countries and other international subjects, such as international organisations, through international agreements, international courts and international ordinary law.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U8	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U9	Thank you. If the next generation of Jaak White or any other historian reads today's verbatim and your answers today, in a few decades' time, it is quite possible that he will be brain-deep, because it will probably be very difficult to find a connection between the question and the answer. But let it be what it is. Let's worry about today, too. You said you were seriously looking at road construction. I would recommend that we look even more seriously, because so far, despite the fact that the budget as a whole has only fallen in the huge minus of road investment. There hasn't been anything else, but it's been falling year after year. Maybe we should look even more seriously. But be that as it may. My question is still driven by the situation and Riina Sikkut's first question. And this is: what exactly changed that you had confidence in Mart Järvik, the same Mart Järvik you didn't trust a few weeks ago? Or is it that you have pollution and you can move it so that you don't trust it as a minister, but, look, the Council of the Rural Promotion Foundation, it's irrelevant enough, you can trust it there? Where exactly do you have this pollution right now in relation to Mart Järvik, and what really changed that now he's fit for the job?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U10	Thank you, good questioner. I find this once again very interesting and such a question, on the one hand, in the present, but, on the other hand, a question that looks forward to the future. These debates are, in my opinion, always very pleasant to hold here with honourable members of the Riigikogu, Mr Taavi Rõivas. You're worried, I understand, Jaak White for successors or future specialists in his field, professors' work on how they're reading today's verbatim. The first thing I thought was that I always thought it was important for us to be able to deal with human communication as much as possible. But I'm sure the Krati will be here to help, the Krati. We have to work harder to make artificial intelligence even more powerful, don't we, help our everyday lives? How do we know how he'll help in 20 to 30 years? Let's see. It's quite interesting, of course, what he's going to select from this verbatim, and what he's not going to select, is who's talking about the garden and who's talking about the hole in the garden. But don't worry about it. Your second argument was what you always have in mind, these road investments. I have also replied to you here a few days ago about Rail Baltic that we are making very large and fundamental investments in the country and going on with it. You've been worried about two-way roads. Let's try it again. You say nothing has changed. A very fundamental change has taken place in 2020. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure says that this is actually in his serious focus. Yes, this may be where you drive here in the centre of Tallinn, I don't know how powerful a car can stand out on a daily basis, but in rural areas there is a gravel road. Bringing gravel roads under hard cover is a very important priority. We see how, especially under the leadership of Taavi Asa, a great deal of resources has been provided here, 10 million. Today's rule says that moving a gravel road to a one-kilometer section under a hard cover is now the Code of Kirvere is about EUR 100000. It could be said briefly that 100 to 150 kilometres is still a pretty big step forward this year. Now new projects. Taavi Aas has done that in reality [the money] has been put from the state budget this year to move on to the construction of 2 + 2 roads to start designing them. As you yourself have said, they haven't been made in years. You see, it's been taken seriously. I guess that's your kind of attention, too, I think it's in the budget. So you can say the right thing to yourself in a good way! So a lot of things, and they're important things. You're asking about Mr. Järvik. Like I said, it was on a government level. This decision is the decision of the Minister of Finance, and I have in no way, let us say, called into question his credibility as a member of the MES Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U12	Next, Kaja Kallas asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U13	Thank you. Mr. George Ratas! On 19 January 2017, your previous government set up a Committee for the Appointment of Boards of State Enterprises. At the government press conference at the time, you identified it as one of the most important decisions of the government. I quote from your words at the time: 'The idea is that we can make the state companies, the state companies that we have today in 31 Estonian countries, more transparent in their management, more professional through the appointment of Soviets, as well as their members. ' But now we know that this nomination committee has been politicised, and your government's finance minister, Martin Helme, does not even hide that this is the purpose of this government, the politicisation of its appointment committee, because the government must have political control over the activities of state companies. Now my question: has your personal position changed so much in two years that, in 2017, professionalism, transparency were needed in both its nomination committee and the boards of state-owned companies, but now you agree that no, such professionalism and transparency are not needed there, that the nomination committee will be under the control of the sponsors of party members?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U14	Thank you. Well, you understand that you are now not only politically but also substantively dealing with a very serious issue. It seems to me that, in this sense, we are probably done with you, that if you take the whole process that was before November 2016 when there was a change of government, what is there to deny, we know very well that these Soviet members of state companies came largely from party offices. Some claim that I was not in the government, that these were the secretary-general's agreements. Unfortunately, there are also serious doubts about very large public enterprises, their boards and their boards. We know that. And I'm saying, unfortunately. In my opinion, the new government union really took a very strong step towards changing it and for the secretaries-general to go away. Why am I saying we're done with you guys? You know for yourself that this process was very strongly curated by the Reform Party for 17 years. It needed to be changed. Your quote was for 2017. I will take a press release from the Ministry of Finance from 23 February 2017: 'The main work of the Listing Committee is to find members of the boards of state companies who are able to work as a team and protect the interests of the state as owner. I wish them luck in this. ' said the Minister of Finance Sven Sester at the time. I want to say to this nomination committee, who is just finishing, that they have done a very good job, frankly I say, a good job. The Minister of Finance also pointed out this when we discussed this issue with the government, that it can be seen that the economic performance of state-owned enterprises has generally improved. I cannot say that it is only thanks to the nomination committee and the members of the Council, but it is part of it. So I think that, in order to maintain this direction, in order not to bring it back to the level of the party's secretary-general, I will certainly follow. It has also been made very clear what conditions this member of the nomination committee must fulfil. It must be a recognised entrepreneurial and management expert with a long-term international management experience and an impeccable professional and business reputation. Secondly, he has not been a member of the nomination committee in previous years. Thirdly, it does not have a material conflict of interest in public undertakings. Fourthly, it undertakes to keep confidential business secrets and personal data which become known to it in the work of the nomination committee. Fifthly, he has submitted a declaration of interests to the Minister responsible for the field within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act. That's what you're supposed to do. We will certainly not politicise the nomination committee back to the level of the secretary-general. Absolutely out of the question. Absolutely out of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U15	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U16	Thank you. The answer was not that your personal position had changed. If you do not return it to the level of the Secretary-General, I understand that this is now at the level of the political party leaders, they will decide that. But that's what I'm asking. If the objective is, as the Minister of Finance says, who you said here before, you have absolutely confidence, the purpose of the appointment committee is to politicise these companies and get your people there, and you said that people with a reputation, perhaps from the point of view of the Centre Party, a reputation is impeccable when a person is criminally punished, but I do not think that the public does not think that people who have been punished in criminal proceedings are of integrity. Here's what I'm gonna ask. Your position has changed. Why the appointment committee anyway? If you want to put party people on these boards of state companies, why don't you do it directly, why are you even playing this nomination committee game?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U17	Thank you. I really apologize to you, honourable member of the Riigikogu, but I will not have those words put in my mouth. I have not argued anywhere that I support the politicisation of the companies that you have said. I didn't say anything about what you said. I don't know that criminals can be members of the nomination committee. I actually understand who you're referring to. As far as I know, this punishment has been served, a long time ago. The question is, can't these people come back at some point? [[A voice from the hall.]] Very complicated. On the other hand, you always have to look at what these people have been leading. They have managed, in my opinion, most of them have run large companies, including multinational companies, in very complex areas. Your question was why then we are doing this at all, why we are not going back to it, I don't know, the Reform Party principle that the secretaries-general are going to appoint their own people there. That's why there's not going to be a lot of trouble cases. [[A voice from the hall.]] I tried to avoid this in the answer to the first question, as you would like to forcefully bring it to the table. The same example of the Port of Tallinn. A very bad example, I'm sorry, but a very bad example. I think that was a very problematic example. That's right, it was a push back then to change the naming system. I don't know who you're going to tell me it's politicism. In the previous nomination committee there was a representative of the Estonian Employers' Confederation; in the new it exists, Toomas Tamsar has been appointed there. On the proposal of the Minister of Finance, Argo Luude has appointed Kaido Padar on the proposal of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure and Reet Roos on the proposal of the Minister of Justice. As far as I know, I haven't checked, but as far as I know, at least two of them don't belong to any party. Your argument is that since two of them belong to a party, it is now politicised. As I said, there are certain requirements for members of the nomination committee, and this has in no way been an exclusive requirement when someone has a party membership. I think every person, when he goes to work like this, where there are very high standards, he always leaves his personal emotions behind the door, always leaves it behind. There have been examples in Estonia's life in the last 20 years when former parties in the judiciary have come to high places, or someone was a party member and left a party ticket behind. So do we say you see, now the court has changed, I don't know, the yellow color? You can't say that. On the contrary, I say that they certainly must ensure that no politicisation takes place in companies. That's where you get elected, councils, best people, experts in your field.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U18	Thank you. There is still room for presentation on this subject... Excuse me, is Kert Kingo a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U19	I wanted to ask you that here this week is seen every day, and at the moment there was also notice how a member of the Riigikogu, sitting in his seat, mixes loudly speaking or walking around, a waitress, a questionor or a person sitting in a hall who wants to listen. Is it acceptable or permissible as a member of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U20	Thank you for your question. Of course, in the Chamber of Riigikogu we should all keep order and not speak to each other if it would interfere with the response of fellow members or ministers of the Riigikogu. This is really a matter of courtesy. But let's get on with the questions. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U21	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! I would remind you that according to your title, you are the Prime Minister. For the fourth year, you can't ride on this one single example, on the fact that you point the finger at your predecessors and just spread rumors. It was, in fact, impertinent how you just answered Kaja Kallas. I can tell you that there have been no problems with members of the Riigikogu in company councils. However, this practice was indeed terminated in 2016. There was a deal, all right, let's not do that. You yourself run a party that has been sanctioned either once or twice. Yesterday, one of the members of your political party was convicted. But you still can't get over it, some kind of single example years ago, you're presenting as some kind of big rule and like a big personal victory. It was bad at the Port of Tallinn, but not with members of the Riigikogu, I would remind you. However, I have the question in the same direction. Try to answer the question. It was a model that people with a mandate from the Riigikogu could be members of the council. It was changed. It has never been the case that the secretaries-general appoint. Maybe you have a secretary-general to decide, but it's a rumor that the secretary-general will. Don't spread stories like that. Ministers appointed members of the Riigikogu, it was terminated. The big words to it, the nomination committee to it. But now there's been a reversal. Your own Minister of Finance commends the fact that party leadership must actually be brought back, calling it head of the Minister, but nevertheless...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U22	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U23	... political control in such a personal way through the nomination committee has been brought back. Please explain this in substance. Why? For this one member...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U24	Jürgen Ligi, time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U25	...can't talk about a reputation of integrity. Please, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U26	Thank you, Mr. Ligi. I don't think I'm going to go to the introductory part of your question, where you brought in both the Centre Party and the Member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo. The court is doing its job and we have three court grades in Estonia. I think, if I understood you correctly, it is often the case that you do not understand me and I find it difficult to understand you, but I am really trying to do the best right now, that your concern today is that there has been a statement that the state should somehow keep closer contact or better contact with the members of the boards of state companies. You're kind of upset about it, and you're afraid there's going to be, I don't know, politicisation or political interference. As I said, politicisation, of course, cannot happen and we do not support that in today's government. However, we must comply with the Treasury Act. Paragraph 80 (1) (2) of the State Assets Act requires a member of the supervisory board of a public company to be able to act with due care, in accordance with the objectives and interests of the company, ensuring the effective protection of the interests of the State as shareholder, shareholder. That is what I want to say: I do not think that there should be any contact at the board of state and, say, at the general meeting, for example, at ministerial level, or they should be, I don't know, divorced in their activities. On the contrary, I think it should be a supporting action, it should be a negotiated action. Surely we understand that there are certain state companies, where there are a lot of services that this company must offer in Estonia and which are not profitable, and which are often also subsidised.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U27	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U28	Let us move on to the third question posed by Katri Raik. He is answered by the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U29	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. In this school year, at least three principals (Viimsis, Tõistamaal, Kiviõli) have lost their jobs in the middle of the school year, as this is the way the schoolkeeper has decided. In the autumn of the last parliamentary season, the discussion in the Committee on Culture, and also in this large hall, was whether or not to supplement the arrangements for the election of the headmasters, to include as objective a representative as possible, or a representative of the state, of the committee for the election of the Director of the School. Neither the great hall of the day nor your support for such a proposal. What's your position after these three cases? Would the procedure for the selection of school directors in Estonia require further development and would the procedure for the accreditation of school directors require further development in order to make the school directors as dependent as possible on local politics?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U30	Thank you very much for the theme set. The topic of the headmaster and head of school has not been discussed in the previous and previous Riigikogus. If I may, first of all, I wish you all a beautiful new season to begin afterwards! After all, we have our first Question Time this year, 2020. Now for the headmasters. We have indeed discussed this in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. There have been drafts here, both in this and in the previous composition, but there have also been simply thematic discussions in the Committee on Culture. After all, this topic came up very keenly in the summer of last year. During the summer, there were three cases, or cases, especially in July, when, in my opinion, almost every social event discussed one or another of the subjects of school leaders. Yesterday, we also discussed for over an hour and a half with representatives of the school leaders what these options would be, first of all, according to the law in force. According to the current Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, there must be a public competition. It has been said which representatives [in the Commission] must be there. When there are certain signals or complaints, there has always been a great deal of attention to this. In the case of public schools, it has also been said how we comply with it. In my opinion, choosing school leaders when there is nothing or, as in the old days, when the employment contracts ended and a new competition was launched after five years, is one aspect. The second topic that we have discussed here and which arises in this light is whether there should be some regular rotation of school leaders, which we actually call a career model. If we pointed out the so-called 360° self-esteem and feedback, in which the community, the board of trustees, the faculty and partner organisations are involved, so that the feedback to the head of school is as broad as possible, then one part of it was whether we should build [a model], which is in very many countries: if you are in a smaller school, you will go to a bigger school, or if, for example, in urban conditions, a school may need support, you will be exchanged. We also discussed yesterday whether it could be 5+5 [years], and then you would go there as part of some rotation, or you'd get the advantages if you were to go in the middle of a maybe a little more complicated school environment. These models are all ready. I'm sorry, I just didn't remember at the moment what I've ruled out. I think I'm ready to discuss everything right now. I made that very clear yesterday. But for the moment, I'm sorry! I'll come back to that in the next answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U31	Katri Raig has the opportunity to ask a more specific question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U32	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you about a particular headmaster and the school. I think the Minister agrees that Kiviõli 1. What is happening around high school is one of the most important educational publicities in the last few decades, as well as the discussions about the position of head of school in society, including how and how the community can influence the retention or non-permanence of the headmaster. I'm very consciously using the words 'violent power' about what's happening in Kiviõli right now. As Minister of Education, you have been completely even on this issue. But as an experienced minister and an experienced politician, give advice on what could the community, the people of Lyganuse municipality, teachers, parents, in the overwhelming part of their wish to move to Director Heidi Uustalu as headmaster of the school in the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U33	First of all, I'm sorry that the answer was broken, I didn't look so closely at the seconds. What are our chances of moving forward with the issue of school leaders? One possibility has been this debate That was the case with the five-year contract. Does this simply mean certain stages of a career model? In any case, you need to come to the head of the school. This time we are talking about it as if the parish bullies the school and the school people are concerned about it. (I'm about to get to the Minister's position.) But a few months ago, it was exactly the opposite when the community wanted to change the head of school and the parish supported the head of school. I don't appreciate what's a bigger problem than the other one. It may depend on the size of the community or the media's attention, but every single incident is extremely regrettable and the cause is very serious. After all, the headmaster creates the educational content of the school; he is very strongly influenced by what is happening and how it is happening at the school. After all, we have said everywhere that these are the choices of teachers, or are these courses of study, we give schools a very high degree of autonomy. This is the huge advantage of our education over many, dozens of countries. The school community, and especially its leader, the head of the school and perhaps the team of school leaders who are there, the heads of study, the development leaders, is designed by the school culture. So the headmaster has a huge role to play. In any case, we need to look at this issue in the key where the school manager feels that he is supported by the community, but, for example, there are certain differences with the municipality or the city, or there are other differences, perhaps for different reasons, the school manager does not realise that the community no longer supports him in this form. According to the law in force, the Minister as Minister, but also the Ministry of Education and Research has perhaps not answered all the questions in the way that the answer is expected, as a matter of principle, the position taken years ago is that this is the relationship between the local community, the local government and the director, just as the director is the judge of his teaching staff. If we want to change this, we need to amend the law both in the key to the [organisation] law of the local government and in the key to the PGS. Indeed, there has been one choice, for example, in upper secondary school, perhaps the contractual relationship is with the country, perhaps it is different. But according to the law in force, the Minister has the opportunity to go in with supervision, and that is what we have done.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U34	Please, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is similarly motivated by this case of Stone Oil, but is perhaps in a completely different context. At least on the basis of the public information known to me, you may have been more specifically informed about the impression that the cause of this dispute was the fact that the headmaster had allowed a party cell to hold a meeting in the school premises. In a large number of regions and communities, schools are cultural centres, places for social gatherings. It means that regardless of your worldview, whether you love animals, dogs, cats, whatever, it is possible for nonprofit organizations and active people to gather there. Is it now becoming dominant in your eyes as well? And how do you judge how motivated the meeting was? I agree with this when exceptions are made and some people are allowed to hold and others are not allowed, but unfortunately I also encountered local elections when, in certain municipalities, in certain areas, they tried to hold debates at school for upper secondary school students, on the basis that they had reached local electoral age, but the school directors did not dare to organise them, they pointed out that the Ministry had categorically banned it. I would like to understand, Minister, your position and your message to the directors. Are such equal debates and public meetings now prohibited in schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U36	Thank you very much for an excellent question, a very nuanced question. I'm sorry, unfortunately, I only have three minutes, and I'd like to continue to debate it. I believe that the Committee on Culture, for example, could take this seriously, perhaps another committee. If you don't mind, I'll take one step out of the party. We have had quite recently, in recent months, cases where there have been signals about an event of one or another social group, such as the Facebook group, which is intended to be organised in the school room, because there is a large steam, but there is a very clear discussion, for example, of some theories that are not supported by our education system or, for example, by the research system. A delicate situation has arisen. It's like detention, it starts at three o'clock, like in one case, when children, like high school children, were still in school. It may clearly be an event that is not directly addressed to the school, but it deals, for example, with some theory that we do not generally support in the education system. The Ministry's opinion was asked whether it was possible to refuse. We dealt with it quite thoroughly and say it's up to the head of school today. That's what I'd say here. In any case, it's up to the headmaster to decide which events he does. There is an ethical agreement for an active electoral period. Representatives of the Chancellor of Justice and students and representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research agreed on such a framework, which is a very soft agreement for an active election period. As we know, there is no active electoral period at the moment. It's always time for school to decide. But would it need more specific help? I have just been approached by the heads of school, not Mrs Uustalu in this case, who is very well able to handle her own decisions, but I believe that you understand the very active groups on the subject of who can drink, who cannot drink, what can heal and what cannot heal. If such an event takes place in school rooms at relatively active times, is the head of school entitled to refuse if, for example, it has been declared publicly as rental space and is public time? Indeed, school leaders have asked for guidance. We have said at the moment that we do not have a legislative framework. But I believe, a good questioner, that you are once again, that there are no political restrictions except in an active election period, unless we say that political events must not be made, but that it should be a public debate on an equal footing with all of us, where everyone can present their platforms. At all other times, we do not have national regulation in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U37	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U38	Let's go to the next question, order number four. The author of the question is Taavi Rõivas and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U39	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! A few days ago, there was news that the family doctor crisis had reached a whole new level. Namely, the Ministry of Social Affairs and its administration could not find a new family doctor at Haapsalu, or county centre. It was said that the solution now is that patients will have to contact their doctor on the way to the video bridge. In my comments, I did not see any member of the government comment, but only officials represented the government, among other things, said that this could be the future, that even family doctors would not be found in cities. Specifically, it was called cities that could still remain in the run without doctors, Pärnu, Valgat and Viljandi. I very much hope that this was not in any way a joke or a threat, because public health is directly dependent on access to primary care, and if there are serious problems with access to it, especially in county centres, then the situation is still very serious. Since it really was not possible to see the Minister of Social Affairs or any other member of the government speaking on such an important subject, I would take the opportunity to ask what the government's position is and what you intend to do specifically to resolve the family medical crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U40	Thank you very much, good questioner. I think this is a very serious question. Let me start by saying that this proposed idea of a video bridge with a doctor on one side of the camera and a patient on the other side is certainly no alternative to me. This may be an opportunity at times when the family doctor is not working, that such an opportunity will be created, but, of course, as you said very rightly in your question, in county centres, but not only, we must certainly ensure that as many competitions as possible in primary care are successful. Unfortunately, the existence of primary doctors and the success of competitions are not only a matter of recent times, but this issue has been up for a very long time. There have been times when there have been 40 competitions that did not produce results. In this sense, I think that this concern is entirely justified. I also agree with the statement that family doctors do their job well, with great dedication. That's what the last year's doctor's election, I think. This doctor just came from outside Tallinn and Tartu, Lääne-Virumaa from Väike-Maarja, and he is a family doctor. So if you ask me what my position is, I think that yes, a video bridge can't be a real solution to providing primary care. And there have been these competitions, there have been moments when, for example, Valgas has repeatedly failed. So it's gotta be dealt with all the time. Of course, it's a big challenge, a very big challenge. Here [can't] say a single prescription that tomorrow all primary care is available everywhere in the form of a doctor, lists are formed. Of course, it's a day-to-day job, it's handled by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U41	Javier in clothing, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U42	Thank you. It must be taken as a kind of compliment that, after you've been prime minister for more than three years, you like to talk about this 17-year experience over and over again. Indeed, it was mostly a very good time because things really moved and solutions were found to the problems. For example, one of the ideas that was introduced was the start-up grant. At first it was in Ida-Virumaa, later it was expanded, it helped solve some specific problems. Now there are new problems. I suggest that similar mechanisms should be found now to actually help find these doctors. In my opinion, neither Tanel Kiik nor Jüri Ratas can simply look at it aside and only express hope, but we still need to take concrete steps. Of course, some of the attractiveness of family doctor work is also modern working conditions. The doctor of the year you mentioned works in Väike-Maarja precisely at one of those primary health centres, right on the main street, which was fixed with the support of the taxpayer in the European Union. At the same time, it is known that, if at first 54 such primary health centres were to be established across Estonia, this plan dates back at least seven years or even eight years ago, so far, I know that only a relatively small part of these health centres are ready. Would you be willing to enlighten us on how many of the 54 health centres are now ready, how many are in work and how many are still in trouble? As has been said, working conditions are also an important part of achieving access to healthcare and the attractiveness of work for the doctor.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U43	Thank you. We have also discussed this issue several times this week with the Minister of Social Affairs. It is first-rate health care, I know, that is one of the priorities of the Minister for Social Affairs this year, in order to improve access to primary care, particularly through more effective support measures in rural areas, better support measures. Of course, it's your right to ask for exact numbers in Question Time. According to the Minister of Social Affairs, this year the Ministry of Social Affairs should make an effort to complete 15 health centres. If your question was at the moment, how many are ready, I think they're a little over 20. This year should come to 15. This objective, which you said, is that 54 yes, is this goal, closer to 60 such health centres across Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U44	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I'd still ask you a little more specific. It was the Haapsalu case, I think, that prompted this question when it was implemented through the video bridge to provide medical services, about which you said it was not acceptable. However, the retirement of family doctors is a growing problem, it continues, and the case of Haapsalu may not be the last. You're saying you can't accept this thing and you're doing something, but what are you gonna do? The health centre, its working conditions, these things stretch, investments are generally postponed. But what exactly are you going to do, or what are you going to do, to sort out the tendency that family doctors are pensioning?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U46	Thank you for your question. Just as I replied to Mr Clothes, I will also answer you: I certainly do not think that this will solve the situation. Most of all, it can be a short-term, very temporary solution. What are we gonna do? We need to find a family doctor in Haapsalu. That's the specific answer. As far as I know, the Ministry is working to resolve this situation. It's not a good situation, I'm not saying that. But what I do know is that, when we talk about family medicine more broadly, the Ministry is in the process of renewing the financing model, and precisely with the aim of what I said to Mr. Clothes to support more family medicine centres outside the centres to give more focus there. It's one of the options. The principle of increasing the distance charge and its extension must certainly also be discussed. These are the main issues. I know that when we talk about basic funding, for example, for smaller lists, it has already become more equal this year. Very concrete steps that have been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U47	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U48	Next, the questioner is Helmen Kütt, he will be answered by the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U49	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of Education and Science! The Act amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and related amendments to other laws entered into force on 1 January 2018, i.e. it has been in operation for two years. The biggest change, or one of the major changes, was that local authorities were granted the right to maintain and establish schools for children with special needs. The obligation did not come to the effect that municipalities had to take over the state schools, but offers were made in negotiations with the Ministry. It was also included in the law that a maximum of EUR 10000 could be imposed if all the necessary services for these children could not be provided. The good news at the end of last year was that 15 million additional money came to children and schools with special needs. Can you give me a little overview? As members of the Social Affairs Committee, we have visited several schools, and as members of the Riigikogu, I have also visited schools where children are studying in ordinary schools and also children with special needs. What is the situation and where do you see the problems that should be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U50	Thank you very much for always keeping a very serious subject at the centre! We do know that many of these changes have just been discussed with you because you have a very long experience in this area. How can we sum up? After all, 23 million were allocated from the state to the local government on the subject, part of it earmarked, some to support children with special needs and more than 3 million were such wider support, support services could be developed and strengthened. There has been a significant change in the number of support specialists working full-time in schools according to the EHIS. There may also be what we know from the feedback that in the intervening situation where only teachers were allowed to use the salary money, a number of specialized pedagogues, who maybe at the same time were, for example, real logopaedes or support specialists, were trained as teachers. Now they can be where they want to be. But we also know that there was an extra man coming into the schools. It's a pleasure. In total, I'm just saying, there are 330 specialized pedagogues, 226 school psychologists, 263 logopeds and 369 social pedagogues. So the numbers are very good one way or the other. We know that not all of them are generally like this in one institution; rather, in some places there is more support from one and another support specialist. The general picture is that special schools are in any case very necessary, special schools have rather come, especially in larger municipalities, especially in Tallinn. And the kind of private schools that are committed to very complicated or more difficult cases have come up. On the other hand, we have not been able to change the number of children in national special schools in any way [change], it has been invested, I think, there are excellent specialists, but unfortunately there is not much growth there either. A greater number of children are studying in mainstream schools today. Enhancing support in mainstream schools so that these young people really get support, not to mention children, depends very much. I can assure you that, for two years now in a row, we have taken the direction of supervision, that we are going to these local governments, where, for example, the numbers are extremely different. Sorry again, three minutes is almost up. I should learn to talk faster. But let's say, for example, if there are a lot of students in need of support, according to the EHIS, but the measures actually taken are extremely low, then we'll go and ask what's going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U51	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U52	Thank you very much for this review. My second question concerns early childhood education and childcare in particular. I have heard that there is a major debate between the three ministries on the reform of childcare services, and I would dare to use this word over the tightening of the requirements for childcare providers. Would you, in a word, open up the point of this reform? Very many children with special needs need child care at the very beginning, given their state of health, maybe it is less infectious if there are fewer children around them, perhaps personal action is needed. What could this major planned change involve and, for example, are the representatives of parents involved in these discussions or are they just coming after the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Internal Affairs [debate]? We all know that the Minister of Population portfolio is practically part of the whole family policy and children's subject, but children with special needs are under the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U53	Thank you very much. First of all, how much is involved? These discussions on the amendment of the Pre-School Children's Institution Act (KELS) in these working groups have been, to my knowledge, at least since 2014. When I first had meetings with kindergarten representatives at the Ministry of Education and Research in 2016, they said they were pretty tired and they'd like to know if this bill is coming or not. The focus of the debate has always been around that, on the one hand, we see that there is too little child care to ensure that the child gets, let's say that we have that expectation for school preparation, that there is a curriculum activity, that qualified people are either in the key to professional standards or even in the key to education. It's been on the table the whole time. The very first answer and this time the short answer is this. From the outset, the Ministry of Social Affairs has made it very clear from the point of view of children with special needs that everything that concerns more serious cases is, by way of exception, out of the draft. It has been the case since the beginning that childcare for certain special children must remain, and this has been acknowledged by the specialists of the Ministry of Education and Research. The next question is why it is done. I have already said that this is the question that if this is the first stage of education, how much should we support it? But we also understand that supporting children up to three years of age is a little more flexible and that there are one-to-one cases. After all, children's care is often formalised as an institution for another reason, i.e. because of the local government's compensation. This cute nanny is listed today as a childcare provider, and if we were to say that this lovely nanny, who loves this child with whom he has a tremendous bond, should meet a certain standard of professionalism, we may have certain scissors. That is why we have examined it very calmly. The second nuance that I have already said once in this Riigikogu and will say again, and for which the Ministry of Education is also very careful, is that we will bring it into sharp harmonisation. After all, childcare, especially municipal childcare, has also arisen because the rules of kindergarten are in some cases very inflexible, for example, to certain floors, to the square meters of a certain area of the yard. Therefore, for example, municipal childcare has arisen in kindergartens because, for example, otherwise, kitchen block numbers do not comply with [conditions]. Now that the childcare section has been added to it, the administrative burden and all this is shared and it is financially feasible. We also need to look at this very calmly. So there are no definite decisions. And if you're asking me if it's involved, I know it's more involved and these groups have been very big than the fact that there's been little involvement.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U54	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U55	Thank you. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we have really discussed with experts from both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research about supporting children with special educational needs. From the last debate, I had the impression that the Ministry of Social Affairs' wallet to support children with special needs was, of course, much bigger than the Ministry of Education and Research's wallet to support these children, but somehow these wallets are not interwoven. It is clear that children are the easiest way to help in school because they are there. My question is how, as your Minister for Education and Research, you can see what these major areas of cooperation could be, so that the resources available in the social field can also be used more effectively in the school environment to support children.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U56	Thank you very much. First of all, I can safely say that there is hope. Things are very optimistic at very many moments. Firstly, county-based, let's say, a review of services in the social and educational fields together. There were four or five counties at the front. For example, in Läänemaa, details have been reviewed and service-based reviews have been carried out on how to harmonise how a service would improve for a person, and on the other hand, how we would see that duplication is less. Remember, a few months ago, I gave an example that the logo beet service is one of those things that the Ministry of Social Affairs said that there is a great deal to ask about in the rehabilitation plan. They started looking on a case-by-case basis. The Ministry of Education and Research, i.e. from the education budget, had received the same logo beet service as the same persons, the same children. I guess it was pretty much one or two days. What can a parent, of course, object to if one day you can and another day you can, but in terms of meaning of the service again and looking at the queue, it didn't make the most sense. So these things are being reviewed. Another is what we have been waiting for for years for when a child has a certain diagnosis or certain decisions have been made, for example, he or she does not have to re-do [applications] in terms of education, but we trust each other. We want to bring these services more together now that health centres are opened, so that they are actually in one place. A child who may have problems getting used to has a good time to go there when he is more used to this room and everything. Where do we really have bottlenecks? This is our understanding of a support service, for example. We know it's a little regionally different, but it's still difficult for parents in Harjumaa and Tallinn. When a child goes to an educational institution, kindergarten or school, especially in kindergarten, this has sometimes been an obstacle to the appointment of a support person. It needs strengthened cooperation between itself so that all these services are actually delivered. The content of this increase of over 20 million cannot be that other services, such as rehabilitation services, are lost to the child. We still have to look really calmly. We have made sure that we get together on a quarterly basis in a very wide circle, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education, and we look at these issues on a case-by-case basis. It's changed something, we're communicating, it's the chancellors, it's the vice chancellors, it's the lawyers, there really are at least ten people on both sides. It is possible to find compromises, but I am going to take a little step back and say that not all solutions are on the table until the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U57	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U58	Next, Signe Kivi answers the question, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U59	Thank you! Dear Minister, In the Riigikogu, various representative organisations of teachers have been actively involved in the processing of the Act amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, and thus members of the Riigikogu are also familiar with their activities and problems. In 2014, the education system was transformed into an invitation, and the Teachers' Union has an important role to play here. We know that today for six years the invitation of a senior teacher and a master teacher has been given to slightly more than 90 teachers, but we have 25,000 educators. During the earlier accreditation system, more than a quarter of all teachers were senior teachers and Methodists. So it seems to the observer that the competence of the teaching staff of the Republic of Estonia has fallen in recent years, which could not be confirmed on the basis of the PISA tests. My question: Has the new system in place led to a greater contribution of teachers to the work of student associations and to the development of various methodological materials and increased the motivation, competence and sustainability of teacher education in the Estonian education system; is the system implemented comparable to the previous system of accreditation in terms of effectiveness and impact?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U60	Thank you very much. Excellent question. I have to control myself now, not to say no, because there was a question. Yes, I think that none of the great goals listed above, I understand that you quoted those goals, which have never been confirmed in this form, are not guaranteed. Nor is it a secret that losing the levels of the accreditation system was certainly not the best decision. The justifications and explanations that were at the time, we understand. It still depended on it, one of the motivations was that there was a clear pay gap. If we put more than 100 euros in today's numbers, they were intermediate stages. Take, for example, the Scandinavian model. After all, the Finns repeatedly said that it is such a great motivation in Estonia to go to continuous training, to be a mentor to others and to do all this, and they sincerely hope that we will not change the system. That's what happened at the time. Teachers' representatives have also asked if we could bring back the levels of accreditation, but certainly not so little, four being few. The criticism at the time was that there should have been more breaks between the teacher and the senior teacher. Junior teacher, all right, it's a beginner, it'll pass quickly. The teacher could have more steps. It was very clear in the various proposals, not just in the last few years, but perhaps in the course of going back to the past, at the time when we discussed this accreditation, too, that it should not depend so much on seniority, but on a special contribution. But the numbers. I'm glad you still have the most optimistic numbers. I have master teachers, level 8, 40, so if you have 80, it's even more optimistic. Those numbers speak their own language, yes. Really, there are in this sector, there are also kindergarten and hobby school teachers, 20,000 people. That's the answer in itself. If we ask what we are going to do, the first and clear ambition is that, last and, fortunately, many other previous governments have had to raise teachers' salaries. The reason why it was discussed at one point was the input, the teacher's salary, and that, in order for a young person or a more experienced person to enter the teaching profession today, it is first necessary to raise the base. This is also the reason why we come to this issue every year with the Estonian Educational Workers' Association and also with the Teachers' Association as representative organisations. Then everyone also states that this base input level is not yet sufficient to be able to forcefully channel the money to the next steps. But this is definitely on the table, and I really liked your quote.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U61	Thank you. Signe Stone, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U62	Thank you for that answer. My second question is more specific: can you confirm that the process of applying for an invitation is based on the professional capacity of the applicant and that there is really no punishment for those whose views on different issues in the field of education are not always consistent with those of the Ministry of Education and Research? However, information has been received from the members of the Committee on Culture that, in at least one case, the head of the Teachers' Association has provided the applicant with a letter requesting, before the decision on assignment or non-obligation was taken, the applicant's position, which, as we know, the public debates did not agree with those of the Ministry, and even a statement of reasons explaining the conduct. Do you support such a process of processing?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U63	First of all, let me say that I cannot take any responsibility for the Teachers' Union as a minister. It is an organisation supported by some, some are very critical, but it is in no way dependent on the Minister or the Ministry or vice versa. Now, if you go into a bit of history, this mutual criticism has not been quite close, and I believe, of course, always rightly. Indeed, thanks to what has happened in recent weeks or because of what has unfortunately happened, I too have been familiar with who is in the Commission. It's actually fixed. There are representatives of the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers, the Ministry of Education and Research (with one person at expert level), the Association of Estonian Children's Gardeners, the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, the Association of Estonian School Leaders, the Tallinn University, the Estonian Association of Elders, the Estonian Teachers' Association, the University of Tartu and the Cooperation Chamber of the Estonian Teachers' Associations. The Ministry of Education and Research is an expert. I assure you, I have not met with an expert and I have certainly not called for any position of mind. But this case is extremely regrettable, especially since these letters are being sent to a large circle. I sincerely hope that this will be a quick solution, because somehow it does not decorate the teaching profession, either on the one hand or on the other, although the senders of letters are all practicing and respected teachers. I'll come to that detail for a second. 2013 was the time when the changes took place. 2013 established the right to give an invitation on the basis of teacher training curricula with a professional standard and the University of Tallinn and Tartu received it from 2015. So from 2015 the University of Tartu and Tallinn will give an invitation to teach. As we certainly know, curriculum by curriculum started from 2016 and it was also clearly said that this does not mean that a teacher working today would not have an invitation, but simply from that moment on, all graduates were given this obligation. It also remained very abstract in the Riigikogu debates, whether or not all existing teachers will have to go to the invitation within a certain period of time. One point of view was that they certainly did, the other was that they did not. In professional qualifications requirements or elsewhere, we did not require this compulsory invitation from the teachers working, but those who are starting or have been away at some point did indeed come up with this requirement. There's been two competitions. 2013 was won by the Estonian Teachers' Association, 2018 was completed, a new competition was launched, and to the surprise of many parties neither university competed; the only applicant was the Teachers' Association. In this situation, we are now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U64	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary! You said how few teachers have actually received these master teacher's certificates at school, and we know how few young teachers there are in school. The rules of the Master Teacher's Certificate provide that this teacher must be a very good teacher, also very innovative, able to use all the latest methods. At the same time, young teachers are once again faster learners. Does the Ministry also have any kind of good system to support the development of teachers from getting an invitation, from working as a junior teacher to getting a master teacher's certificate? At the moment, it seems that a young teacher does not have a good support system or sufficient mentoring at school, before reaching master level, leaving school.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U66	Thank you. First of all, the Ministry of Education and Research, as far as I know, does not have such a special programme of professional attainment and professional attainment. But once again, I'm sorry if there are any. Maybe the General Education Department does, but I don't have any details here. If there are programmes that are oriented towards receiving such invitations, then I am not familiar. The reason is a little bit that the invitation as such, I say again, had its own set of rules for working lecturers. While there is a separate programme for those who return to school, it is a civil society initiative, but today it is a term. If you are a graduate specialist, you come to school, but you do not have a qualification that meets qualification requirements, then, for example, with universities, we have an agreement that part-time learning in the teaching sector is free of charge, this separate agreement is aimed specifically at these people. There are a number of complementary training measures through Innove to enable working teachers to increase their qualifications. So it's not professionally oriented, it's to meet the qualification requirements of which it is part, yes. The support of a young teacher is still separate. As you know, there are own initiatives here, there is a programme of support for young people, universities have an extra year of support, there is support for mentors, and there are also separate programmes in which we provide financial support for those fine and excellent teachers who support young teachers as mentors. Is that enough? The feedback from the Youth School program says that it is a continuous process. Similarly, the new starting teacher program, which I am sure has been introduced to you, has also gathered very diverse feedback and universities have also done research. Everyone says it depends so much on where this young teacher gets to. The first keyword for the first question from me is the head of school, it was discussed. The first absolute keyword is the school manager, the nature of the school climate, how much is supported. The next keyword is whether a positive or rather a teacher starting this poor young person is being pushed into these problems and those things that others may not want to deal with anymore. It has also been pointed out repeatedly as a problem that at one point, before he notices himself, he has drowned. What can we do? There's mentors and support. I believe, for example, in the citizens' initiatives that have emerged with the help of the great people who went to school when they were young, who have given feedback on this. Their willingness to come up with such additional programmes is something that I very much support. I think it's really fun if we can find out on a case-by-case basis what this bottleneck is.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U67	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U68	The next question is Question 7. Submits Heljo Pikhof and corresponds to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Heljo Pikhof, please enter your card. Thank you. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U69	Thank you. Prime Minister! In Estonia, 157000 people have been sentenced to disability, which is 11 to 12% of the Estonian population, including 60,000 people who have a mobility disability. People with disabilities are blind, partially sighted, deaf. There are almost 2000 of the latest in Estonia. As important as physical accessibility to polling stations is what happens before the election day. For example, the deaf should be able to take part in the debates that take place on TV, namely, they want subtitles and sign language translation on TV at the most important debates. We just had two elections. Observers claim that nearly half of the polling stations were not self - accessible to wheelchairs, to prams, to elderly people who had difficulty moving. For people in wheelchairs, the last time there were cardboard portable screens in polling stations, which is, of course, a step forward, but here it is worth noting how a person with special needs feels if he or she feels that he or she has been treated equally. I went to Uzbekistan at the end of last year to observe the elections. Despite the fact that this is a country where many areas are behind us, access to people with reduced mobility is guaranteed. The ramps were also in the worst state of school buildings, hobby schools and community houses. It was self - assuming that wheelchair people had a specially marked cabin and the blind could read who the candidates were and vote. My question: do you consider it normal that not only during the elections, but that many schools, parish houses, hobbies and wheelchairs, crutches or prams are not available on a daily basis, and what is the government planning to do to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U70	Good questioner, thank you very much. Today, questions are very constructive, substantive, serious, and so is this. On the one hand, a slightly broader approach to your question. When we talk about people with reduced mobility and their access to them, we see that, in so many places, it is problematic, to say the least, it poses great challenges. I think the most important thing is that human dignity and comfort are everywhere. Well, maybe we should start by looking in the mirror. I am sure to say this about the building of the Government of the Republic, the Stenbock building, but having also worked here in the honorable Riigikogu, I know from my own hands how great the challenges are to get to certain premises, when, for example, a wheelchair is used to move, not to mention an electric wheelchair that is harder. I have also faced these episodes here when electric hoisting is not just moving at one point, because they do not have that much power. It's always been a pity for the person who's on that wheelchair. That's the point of dignity. You asked about the polls. It is true that the Chancellor of Justice has addressed the national electoral service in a letter suggesting that local authorities, when determining the location of the polling district, be sure to pay attention to the fact that disabled people, too, can enter and vote in the voting space without hindrance and unnecessary extra effort. To this end, the Chancellor of Justice has proposed to complement the electoral laws and make it mandatory to ensure access to the polling district, and also to establish a monitoring mechanism so that the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority has the right to check the possibilities of access to the polling district. I know that this was probably discussed yesterday in the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. You're asking what the Government of the Republic has done. The Government of the Republic confirmed last September the establishment of an Accessibility Task Force, which also deals with the issue of the accessibility of elections. The aim is to reach agreements that can already be implemented in subsequent local elections in 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U71	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U72	Prime Minister! The letter from the Chancellor of Justice also came to the Riigikogu and was already discussed yesterday at the committee. But the Chancellor of Justice's proposal is to supplement the electoral laws and make it compulsory to ensure access to the polling district. Does the Government of the Republic have this plan that these legislative changes will reach the Riigikogu and we can make these changes in time, so that where necessary, a ramp can be built, where necessary, a polling station will be on the first floor, not on the second floor, even if it can get up the ramp, etc.? Your comment, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U73	Thank you. That was the very last sentence or principle I said. I'm gonna go over this for a second. The government confirmed the establishment of a task force last September. The objective of the Task Force is indeed to resolve the issue of accessibility. I also said that he is engaged or his timeline is to reach the goal or agreements so quickly that they can be implemented in the subsequent municipal elections that will take place in the autumn of 2021. The task of this task force will be to identify the situation and problems of accessibility in all aspects of the living environment and society within two years and to develop proposals for measures to move towards a society accessible to people, a public space and, of course, different services. This certainly includes election and going to the polling station. What are these initial possible solutions? Introducing a requirement for the accessibility of the electoral departments, as you said or quoted a letter from the Chancellor of Justice, at the level of the law. Installation of the polling station in buildings that are accessible. In answer to this question, I remember, I think, the last elections to the Riigikogu or the European Parliament elections in one hotel or motel in Tallinn. In the dining room, the elections were held and up there, the first floor did, but there were quite steep stairs up there, ten steps. So a concrete example of accessibility. What else is there? Various communication and guidance materials for local authorities and, certainly, the introduction of national supervision of the accessibility of polling stations. I would certainly like to raise the challenge or problem in the context of e-elections within the framework of this issue. E-election software is only available with Windows operating system and there is no way to run the program in person who cannot manually use the mouse. I think that all these proposals must be taken forward so quickly that they can really be implemented as much as possible in the context of the forthcoming local elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U74	Thank you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, it was very good to hear your review. Indeed, the task force has been formed, it is very much appreciated. The Task Force will vote at its first session next Tuesday, 21 January. I also think that they are working on all these social problems with respect to people with disabilities, and then the state, the government, can naturally respond to them accordingly. But I would rather ask for your subjective opinion, your vision as a longtime member of the Riigikogu, and now also the vision of a person who worked in the government for a long time. Do you perceive people with disabilities as improving attitudes towards society, improving accessibility? Do you perceive the situation as one that can be satisfied with, or should you rather make a strong contribution here so that accessibility for disabled people to society or public space is significantly improved?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U76	Thank you very much for this question. I start with the fact that 16 to 17 years ago, I remember, was quite a challenge with a wheelchair, but also with a baby carriage, for example, in the Old Town of Tallinn. There were no decent sidewalks, not to mention that serious attention had been paid to raising the sidewalks and, for example, the roads of the Old Town to one level, along with, of course, the question of curbstones. One of the first things, I remember, was there behind Tallinn Town Hall, where it was really done on such a narrow street, there is Town Hall Street, a separate tile road, where it is convenient to travel with both wheelchairs and baby carriages. You're asking for my subjective approach. I think I am not mistaken that this was perhaps one of the municipalities of Pärnumaa and one of the schools of Pärnumaa, who, years ago, was the initiative of children in this municipality, mapped out all the public institutions, how a person with reduced mobility can and at all, whether all the security elements are guaranteed, from the handrail and ramp to how it is in this municipality. And they made their proposals. I think this situation has improved, and I think that more and more attention will be paid to it. But if you ask me if you can be satisfied with this situation, you can't be satisfied. We can see that, for example, public transport has been built up, it cannot be said that it has been created everywhere, but in many places, special, so-called low-floor buses have been created, which allow them to stop under the entrance plates, so that it would be convenient to go there, but of course this is not the case everywhere. I want to say that I also know this from my personal experience, because I have had a lot of experience with this in recent years. If I've been with a person who moves in a wheelchair, I've often tried to go to the place where we're going before, whether it's a diner, a church, or any place to see how this entrance is, what the threshold is, what the curbs are, and where the car can be parked. Can't say it's very user-friendly, but there's definitely a tendency, I think, to the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U77	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U78	The next question will be asked by Jürgen Ligi and will be answered by the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U79	Madam Secretary! Your predecessors have still had to talk about the need to optimize the school network. They have explained this with the aim of burdening teachers, raising the quality of education, raising salaries, saving education and quality. You have rather avoided this issue and given quite the opposite signals, even compared to local authorities, for example, I have noticed. What is your real attitude towards this goal, what is your practical action in this area and do you have any numerical indicators of the direction in which developments have taken place?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U80	Today is such a time of mutual compliments. I'd say it's a very, very good subject again. Every time it comes from Jürgen Ligi, you never know where this question is going, so I waited very carefully. Now, if we reflect together on this issue, there will probably be no major change before the 2021 local elections. But we also have this knowledge that, to a very large extent, these mergers were quite complex in the municipalities, and there was also a whole series of municipalities to which one municipality was added. In many of them, a separate agreement was made that the school network or education issues would not be discussed, or vice versa, that the existing school network would remain. It is clear to all parties today, I believe, that several forecasts have changed in the meantime. The latest statistics, which emerged at the end of last year, the long-term population forecast, confirms what was well known before, that Tartu and Tartu County and Tallinn and Harjumaa are regions that will grow until 2045, and all the remaining regions are decreasing and in some of them [are] 50% of the number of children [alles] or below. What are the odds? It is clear, and we are all of us of the opinion that at a very young age, the school could be as close to home as possible. The Ministry of Education and Research is in the process of analysis, and we have the view that the curriculum nuances will be discussed by March, we will discuss what this would mean, what the risks are and what the benefits are, if we try a little to review this definition of 'near-home school' and, for example, define it as six-class. Nine classes in this form, looking at the number of children, most likely means that such a school cannot be maintained everywhere. Three classes seems too little, but six classes could be. So, a good questioner certainly understands, the idea is that, for example, a progymnasium with an abundance of lecturers could be concentrated in attraction centers, probably little has been said in county centers, so let's say in larger settlements combined. It's one of the possible versions we're analyzing. The point is to try to keep the school as close to home as possible to some age.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U81	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U82	Thank you. This in itself is one of the considerations and it is worth keeping in mind. But the second consideration, however, forces, as you even suggested, to ensure that schools can be maintained. This, of course, concerns older classes. The problem in most Estonia, unfortunately, does not ease, but only sharpens. Instead of teachers' salaries, money tends to go to real estate, and teachers have an insufficient burden, and to deny it, children also have more limited social experience in small, semi-classes and schools. However, do you have any numbers to say, what is the problem of "surface use" elsewhere in Estonia, with the burden of teachers, for example, how many teachers are part-time now? How do you generally assess this problem? I really am not talking about Tallinn or Tartu, but mostly about other Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U83	If five to six or seven years ago we could say that a teacher with a lower load than a full-time teacher is more of an exception, I am afraid today to say that the rule is more of a rule. For example, the majority of teachers work with up to 0.2 loads. The reason is clearly that the burden was collected from several comprehensive schools, but often it is not possible or because of age the teacher no longer wants to travel between several schools, he is there for his school, but the burden continues between 0.2 and 0.3. Since I didn't know exactly how to imagine and predict what you were asking for, I have to say that I don't have these numbers with memona right now, but the proportion of how many teachers do not work with a full load and a pretty low load is very high. Now the second good question, the quality of education. It's very difficult to judge in this generalized way. A child may receive support in a very small school collective, which he or she may not receive in another, larger group, and may be exactly the same. It's so average. However, we must say that, compared to the world, the differences between our schools are very small. Compared to the world level, Estonia has a very uniform school system in this sense. However, if we reject this comparison with the world and say that every child is important to us, we cannot look at large countries, and we take our small micro-society, then we must say that regional differences, for example, in the case of support for students, in the case of special needs or in the case of some backwardness, in the case of temporary measures, in the case of certain professionals, in the case of non-qualified teachers, in the results of certain tests, are PISA or are national examinations, are significant. With the measure of optimising the core school network, which was implemented for European money and culminating in 2020 to 2023 we have to say, as significant a reduction in space as we all were ambitiously hoping for at first, it was not. We did renovate less and told the local government to pull together the school network, and sometimes it worked. As a general rule, however, many other institutions were brought together to the school, so that no square meters had been taken out of the heating surface. We also need to think together about how we can be a little more supportive to local authorities in this optimization.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U84	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! As discussed, the school network is not only a scheme of existing school buildings across Estonia, but it is also very strongly dependent on the number of teachers and the possibilities to grab teachers with work. But in recent weeks, I have been approached by a number of local government leaders who have complained about the so-called teacher's rise in the minimum wage that you have defended very strongly here in the Riigikogu. They have made it very clear that, in previous times, if the means of raising the minimum wage were separate, plus 20% for additional activities, this has caused quite serious problems and in fact reduces the chances of holding or hiring good teachers or attracting them to work, according to how additional bonuses can be paid, also on the basis, as you even indicated, that some teachers are also driving around. They've been asking if you wouldn't like to explain again why you chose this path. They say that, in principle, the increase in teachers' salaries was made at the expense of the available resources, rather than the additional resources received. Another problem that has been highlighted by the local government leaders is that the so-called music schools network (in fact, it is an education of interest and, in my opinion, one of the important elements of education and education) has also created a teacher drought. Has the Ministry provided any suggestions, solutions or suggestions for the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U86	Thank you. I understand today that I have to increase my ability, I think in three minutes four questions will have to be answered. The first half is that the minimum rates for teachers [salary] are established nationally. This includes other educational costs, in addition to what used to be called class managers' fees, fees for preparation for exams and so on, and later it was put together in education support. Education support, as such, is rising significantly. That's what a good questioner knows, I believe. The debate about whether or not this 20% buffer will reach the teacher is, I think, a very good debate and, in the course of 2020, it will have to be discussed with the local authorities. There are very clear views, which are also represented by some of the organisations representing the teachers, that if he is in the form he was established in his time to be given to the local government, then 79 [in the municipality] is a very varied picture: where he covers the fact that the school network is quite harali, where he covers the fact that, for example, more support is needed, where he perhaps covers some other peculiarity, the slope of this school. But the expectation that it will be at the top of the 20% plus the majority of the teachers dare say that it will only extend to them if they have an extra load or some additional activity, it is not that as part of your work today, the state will allocate you [money] according to your employment contract plus 20%. That's the argument. As you, a good questioner, remember, quite recently here was debating whether the local government was stealing or not stealing the teachers' salary. That kind of inert confrontation is a little bit. The fact that the educational institution needs resources, air, in addition to the earmarked budget, is clear. Should it come from the state or should it come from local government, for example, for recreational activities or (you mentioned music) for certain circular activities? I mean, we're gonna give you money for a hobby education, too. A lot of people are saying that it should go outside of school, that what happens at school could be elsewhere. There are so many tensions here, but I assure you once again, I understand the issue of local governments, but just like that, the target group, who feels that the 20% distribution of this buffer today, in this form, is not justified. The second and very serious issue is the issue of financing at all. How does the bounty come about, what are its components? How much dedicated money is there, how much free money is there, what is the support and what is the focus? Is the study facility party satisfying or not satisfactory today, should it be significantly larger? You also know that, for example, IT organisations say that it should be targeted at digital means. So here's the nuances. Unfortunately, I cannot answer everything in three minutes, and there were so many questions on your question that I will answer briefly. Yes, it is important to dismantle and make education support more transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U87	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U88	Next, Jevgeni Ossinovsky asks and is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U89	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! My question concerns pharmaceutical policy. The question is very simple, so that there is no need to make a long introduction and an overview of the situation, the situation is well known to everyone, a long discussion both in the public and here in Parliament. The question concerns what happens in two and a half months. In fact, your government minister Kiik went to this speech chair on Monday and we asked him that after this rather embarrassing attempt to turn back the pharmacy reform in December, the Minister of Social Affairs has handed over his proposals to the Riigikogu, the idea of which is that the reform of the pharmacy will come, but then would like to negotiate certain operational stages. The pharmacists are also involved in this process, but the pharmacy reform should come. We asked whether the government would support these proposals by the Minister of Social Affairs. Mr Kiik said that there are many different opinions in different political groups, and now these discussions must be held, and they will certainly be held, but what hatches from all of them, we do not know yet, it will become clear in weeks or months to come, but rather it could be made quickly, because there is not much time. In short, I didn't say anything. Two and a half months remain before the reform enters into force on 1 April. In general, it is high time a clear message from the government was given, a position on whether or not the Pharmacy Reform will enter into force on 1 April. Since the government has no common position, I understand not, I will ask you and perhaps even give you the opportunity to state clearly that the pharmacy reform is coming and that all the parties involved in this market could make their actions dependent on the fact that the law that has been adopted and has entered into force will actually apply on 1 April. So please do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U90	Good Evgeny, sweet fellow! You're clever, I'd say, you describe yourself for so long, and then you insist that you be given an important answer here, and you yourself have been a minister in this field for years. It is true that the reform will enter into force on 1 April 2020 has been in the pipeline for years. I think that this concern of yours is due to this I believe it is a sincere concern, which is primarily related to accessibility and perhaps also to the action that was after the Riigikogu made its draft decision on 118 when hundreds of pharmacies across Estonia were closed very quickly. So, what's the picture on April 1st? On the website of the Agency, we can see this picture, which is the state of play. I am actually concerned about this state of affairs, precisely in terms of availability. We see it today or it is known that about 150 settlements mapped out by the Ministry and its agencies or agencies are in good shape somewhere in 120, that in any case the pharmacy service remains there, that availability is guaranteed, and that 30 are those where negotiations are very seriously taking place, that it is conceivable that there will be pharmacists or there will not be. You are right that two and a half months is a very short time and there is very little time, but I think that there must be a joint effort here, there must be an effort at the level of the government, but there must certainly also be an effort at the level of the Riigikogu. That's what the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik, would have to answer you? This is something that needs to be discussed, there are still compromises to be found, and there is nothing to be done about this power position. Just as the private sector has shown: it has shut down its power position, but I do not think it contributed to the solution in any way. Yes, indeed, one of his thoughts has been that the entry into force of this reform could take place in a step-by-step manner. After all, it is proposed that the first and second steps of 2020 and 2021 should be linked to the branch pharmacies in order to grant them an extension. But as a long-term member of the Riigikogu and government, you know that it requires political agreement, consensus. That is what the Minister of Social Affairs said must be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U91	Thank you. Unfortunately, the clock is going so fast that the subject is now being dropped. With two sentences, I would ask the Prime Minister to quickly formulate a question and give the exact same long answer, then perhaps he will. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U92	A short question. That was even crazier than Tanel Swing's. So I ask you the other way around: do you see any other alternative to protecting the patient's interest, looking at how many surplus profits are being taken in this area, which we have all seen in the last month, do you see any other alternative to protecting the patient's interest beyond the implementation of the pharmaceutical reform? The stage or not, this is a technical question, but in essence, will the reform of the pharmacy continue with or not with the ban on vertical integration?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U93	Thank you. As the President of the Riigikogu said, with a few sentences. Today, the situation is that this reform will enter into force on 1 April, it will work, no other decision has been taken by the Riigikogu, which must be taken today. I would not say that this step-by-step approach or any other alternative is only a technical issue. It's not a technical issue. In these 30 settlements, that's not a technical issue. That's exactly what you're worried about, people who want medication, how it's available. As I said, it is actually the biggest challenge today. So I'm not going to take anything as a technical question about what's going to be in 30 settlements.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U94	Thank you. Thank you for all your questions. I would like to thank the ministers for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U95	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 3rd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 1st working week. Members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U96	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democrats, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Population Riina Solman. The inquiry concerns the activities of the Minister regarding the Foundation of Civil Society and its transfer from Tallinn to Viljandi. If there has usually been an agreement that politically does not intervene in what Estonian civil society wants, what NGOs and their representatives want, then Minister Solman has now begun to say in advance who represents Estonian civil society. The Minister has decided to replace civil society representatives in the Civil Society Foundation, despite the opposition of civil society organisations and the Commission discussing these issues in the government. Secondly, what we are interested in is that if the same person who would remain in the Foundation of Civil Society and have been essentially the only representative of NGOs in Viljandi were to be replaced, then how will the continuity of this foundation and support for the development of Estonian civil society be ensured.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U97	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. The Management Board shall process this enquiry in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu, no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U98	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the Prime Minister's review of the state of R &amp; D and government policy in this area. Before we go to this procedure, I will briefly introduce the procedure. First, the presentation of the Prime Minister is up to 30 minutes, then questions for rapporteurs, where each member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask the rapporteur a question. Only representatives of the political groups may participate in subsequent negotiations. Okay, let's get to the first item. The Prime Minister's overview of the state of R &amp; D and government policy in this area. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U99	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good people in the hall and very respected listeners! The year ended was a successful year for Estonian research and development and innovation. The objectives of the "Knowledge-based Estonia" strategy for research and development and innovation, which were approved here in the Riigikogu on 22 January 2014, have gone as expected. Estonian science is high-level, its impact on the economy and Estonia's development is growing. Estonian researchers and science are also highly valued at international level. For example, an overview of the most influential scientists in 2019 compiled by Claritive Analytics highlights a number of nine Estonian researchers among the 6,000 most cited researchers. In recognition, there were only two scientists from our neighbouring Lithuania, nine from Russia, six from Poland, but 21 from the Finns of the northern neighbours got there. May it be a good milestone for us. The success of Estonian R &amp; D and innovation is undoubtedly linked to funding in this area. Based on the data of Statistics Estonia, I can confirm that the funding for research and development has improved. In 2018, total R &amp; D expenditure amounted to EUR 365.64 million. If you take it as a ratio of GDP, that's 1.4%. The share of total expenditure in GDP was 1.28% a year earlier, and a year before that, i.e. in 2016, it was 1.25%. Public R &amp; D expenditure increased to 0.79% of GDP in 2018. This is a marked increase compared to previous years. I would remind you that this proportion was only 0.66% in 2017. The change is linked to more active use of EU structural resources, but also to increased public funding. Increasing R &amp; D funding is a conscious goal for my government, and in absolute terms we will do so. While R &amp; D funding amounted to 207,6 million in the state budget in 2019, it will rise to 219.1 million euros in 2020. Additional funding has been found under pressure from general austerity. Of the total additional funding, 5.3 million will be channelled into key science instruments, which are competitive research grants and basic funding. We will also achieve a long-standing test balance between competitive research grants and basic financing. This year's volume is equal to 50% and 50% and amounts to EUR 84,6 million. Four years ago, in 2016, this ratio was 73% and 27% in favour of competitive research grants. 3.3 million of the additional funds will be devoted to the development of research institutions and higher education institutions and to the smart city centre of excellence. The remaining 7.1 million will go to support business R &amp; D and support the mobility of research and business development teams. This is a prerequisite for innovation and for Estonian companies to become more research intensive. According to Statistics Estonia, private R &amp; D expenditure has increased by more than 13 million euros in 2018. However, growth remains below economic growth, resulting in a fall in share of GDP from 0.62% to 0.61%. The target of 2% of GDP for private R &amp; D expenditure by 2020 is, unfortunately, not met. It is certainly a warning that only 238 companies reported expenditure on R &amp; D in 2018. I believe that there is a point of reflection here, because there are about 100,000 or more companies operating in Estonia. In any case, this number is our biggest R &amp; D challenge in 2020. Companies contributing to R &amp; D should be more than a number of orders of magnitude. Improving the merely data collection methodology is not enough. We can only increase productivity if companies themselves invest in R &amp; D. The scientific agreement concluded at the end of 2018 included other changes to the financial objective, which were confirmed by all parties. Researchers promised to promote areas aimed at the development of the Estonian economy and society and business representatives to cooperate more with scientists and research institutions. I would ask everyone, including the parties to the research agreement, to understand that the growth in public funding must go hand in hand with the development and construction of the research and innovation system, the creation of an innovation ecosystem that contributes to the research and development of businesses and to a more efficient channelling of resources. The role of the government is to ensure a reasonable balance between the interests of the various parties and to help remove obstacles to cooperation. We also expect other parties to the agreement to move towards fulfilling their promises. I would like to point out positively that, at the end of last year, the support measure was launched for branch associations of companies to recruit development advisors. Development advisors will work to bring together the needs of companies in one area, to find a common part and to establish contacts with scientists who could help fill these gaps. On the other hand, these people are kind of the salt of the land, spreading information about research and development opportunities and inspiring more action. I hope this work will bear fruit. Information and communication companies are the most active in R &amp; D. Much of the success stories come from this particular field of activity. I am thinking here, for example, of developments in the field of artificial intelligence, or cratches. During the summer, the government approved the so-called "crat plan" based on the work of the expert group, which was organised by the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Explosion has increased the number of AI applications developed by companies in the public sector, from a few to 24 in six months, and more will come in the near future. Technological developments generate benefits in both the public and private sectors and help the country develop. I like the example of the PRIA remote monitoring cratis SATIKAs, whose task is to control the euro payments. SAIKAS uses satellite data and checks the length of straw on the field or on the coastal pasture, whether the farmer has used the grant money correctly and has fulfilled his obligations in good time. This solution will save the country EUR 650000 per year as a result of the prevention of misuse. Many farmers have allegedly found their lost rake or bucket with the help of the PRIA. Such development is an excellent example of the values created in cooperation between the private and public sectors and research institutions. Raising the R &amp; D and innovation capacity of the Estonian private sector remains our biggest challenge. The scale of private R &amp; D is the backbone of smart jobs, increasing productivity and a knowledge-based economy. I am sympathized with the so-called 2% club initiative of the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, which invites all Estonian companies to invest in R &amp; D. I would like the private sector's contribution to R &amp; D to grow significantly compared to today. Let's complete the science deal together! Members of the Riigikogu! The excellence of Estonian science is assessed by the number of high-level articles published and the proportion of articles included among 10% of the most quoted scientific articles in the world. The number of high-level articles per capita has increased faster than expected and the target has been met. The 10% target for 2020 will be met in the coming years. This is a clear confirmation of the excellence of Estonian researchers, and we can be sure that the choices made so far to develop excellence have been made correctly. Estonia's progress is also reflected in international comparison. Last year, the University of Tartu, for example, was awarded the highest ever, 301st place in the ranking of the international consultancy firm as a gift for the 100th anniversary of the national university. We had the honour of visiting the University of Tartu with the Government of the Republic on their anniversary. It is a pleasure to note that the goal of the future is also set for a very ambitious membership of the world's 100 best universities. High-level higher education and research are one of the key factors for the preservation of the Estonian state, language and nationality, which should never be taken for granted. In 2019 the European Research Council won a grant from Estonia, the only associate professor of comparative literary science and cultural analysis at Tallinn University, Eneken Laanes, to implement the project 'Translated Memory: Eastern Europe's past in the global arena'. The EUR 1.5 million funding will enable Laane, together with its colleagues, to explore how the memory of World War II and the Soviet regime in Eastern Europe has reached the global arena through literature, film and art, and has influenced ethical and political debates, among other things. It is very interesting to see what results will be achieved. The continued internationalisation of Estonian science is now a positive inevitability. I am thinking of scientific cooperation with other countries and foreign universities, as well as opportunities for using the European Research Facility. The European Commission decided to support the FinEst Twins cooperation project of the smart city of Estonia and Finland with 15 million euros. Together with state support, the project amounts to EUR 32 million, which is why it is significant in terms of scale alone. In the course of the work, researchers from TalTech and Aalto University will establish a centre of excellence for the first cross-border smart city in Tallinn. As the project develops, it focuses on five areas of governance, data, transport, energy and artificial environments, and the development of a common smart urban space and services between Tallinn and Helsinki. I hope this will be a success story that will benefit all our Estonian people. There is often talk of the social impact or contribution of science. Scientists are expected to have a miraculous weapon that will solve some of the everyday problems. It is not really possible or reasonable to contrast basic or applied research with what I understand, because we need both sides to advance life. Rector Jaak Aaviksoo also stresses the need to find a reasonable balance between the eccentricity of science and the relevance of society in the latest edition of the Riigikogu Working Papers. I would like to set an example here by Professor of Biomedical Technology at the University of Tartu Institute of Technology Mart Ustavi, the academician who won the biggest research award in 2019 for research and development work that led to an important socio-economic impact, innovative product and based on scientific discovery. Ustavi and his colleagues' work opened up the causes of the reproduction, preservation and danger of cancer-producing DNA viruses, including papillomaviruses, which are particularly dangerous for humans. In addition, Mart Faithful is a rare example of a scientist who has managed to link his research and supervision of doctoral students to entrepreneurship, which focuses on the commercialisation of his research findings. In this way, a large number of people have apparently received help. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This year is the year of important decisions. Many development plans, the euro money period and the national competitiveness plan "Estonia 2020" are coming to an end. New long-term plans are under preparation. With the options ahead, we will write Estonia's success story for the next decade. By April 2020, the country's long-term development strategy "Estonia 2035" will be completed by the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Finance. This sets long-term strategic goals for Estonia and highlights the main challenges. We also define the changes that need to be introduced in order to make Estonia the best country for us to live in the world in 2035. It will only be possible to achieve these goals if we act in all areas, including R &amp; D, towards the country's major common objectives. The government has initiated the next R &amp; D, innovation and entrepreneurial development plan, preparing the R &amp; D strategy. Research and development, innovation and entrepreneurship will be addressed this time in a strategic development plan to ensure greater synergies between research and entrepreneurship already in the planning phase. Yes, the number of national development plans is also decreasing, but this is not a primary issue here. Increased communication and cooperation between researchers and business is essential, thereby increasing productivity. Last year, external experts rated the Estonian research and innovation system for the Research and Development Council and made proposals for further development of the system. Professors Marja Makarow and Erik Arnold, who carried out the evaluation, as well as Ms Signe Ratso, Deputy Director-General of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, consider that the Estonian research and innovation system needs clearer thematic priorities. And this does not refer to the selection of priority areas. These priorities should be based on the challenges facing Estonian society. In other words, experts believe that Estonia should not give preference to individual areas of research or economic activity as before, but rather see problems that need to be addressed or which we should be better governed by in this country. Scientists say this is the era of 'devil problems'. The solutions to our major challenges are interdisciplinary, i.e. they cover several areas at the same time, which is why preference for narrow areas does not work. The European Horizon Programme for 2021 has been built on a mission-based basis and a number of Western European countries are taking the same path. Estonia has an opportunity here, like all other European countries. The key is to change the way you think. Could what is now seen as a problem in the future be our chance to make Estonia bigger in the world? Focusing large countries and their resources on solving mankind's common problems will change the structure of the global economy and also create new markets. The new Commission sees a new economic growth strategy as proposed in the Green Deal. The proposal, published in December, highlights the objective of climate neutrality. It addresses the development of new environmentally friendly technologies and the introduction of innovative solutions as a source of economic growth. A rapid development in digital technologies, where Europe is realistic to become a world leader, is a prerequisite for the implementation of the Green Agreement. R &amp; D has a very important role to play here, as there are still no good solutions to achieve such a climate change. Estonia, as a smart digital state, and also the leader of the PISA tests, could take the lead here. We are making contributions to the development of green technology, but why not look for ways to address the country's and society's other major concerns through new technology and science. The state's long-term development strategy 'Estonia 2035' defines the major challenges facing Estonian society until 2035. The Estonian population is ageing, the working age population is declining when the balance of migration is balanced. We need to create a high-quality space in view of changes in society, to strike a balance between natural diversity and smart economic development. All of this must finally be supported by reliable but also innovative state order and Estonia's position and security in the world. I would argue that in order to combat these problems, we must do much more and much more quickly than we have done so far. This mission-based approach to research policy contributes to a greater societal impact of science. I congratulate Rector Toomas Asser, who presented the new strategy of the University of Tartu to the government, which, unlike in previous years, focuses on the major long-term challenges facing Estonian society. In the same way, Mait Klaassen, Rector of the University of Life Sciences, has stressed in his recent speeches the role of the University of Life Sciences in meeting the UN's sustainable development goals. The problem-centred approach to guiding university development and action seems to be the only right one. Only in this way will we go beyond rhetoric and we will have a shared understanding of the real importance of scientists and science in the development of the state and society. This real importance cannot be overestimated. Society and our future depend on scientists, because many of the development needs we have already mentioned are so complicated that the working groups of officials alone or the debates of politicians cannot solve them. You cannot always rely on international knowledge, because in the case of Estonian-specific concerns, we need Estonian-specific solutions. Here we can count on high-level science in Estonia. For example, Professor of TalTech Jarek Kurnitski is one of Europe's leading scientists in the field of energy efficiency and indoor climate in buildings. In addition to research, it actively contributes to sectoral policy-making and to the creation of standards at European level. Energy use of buildings accounts for about 50% of final energy consumption in Estonia. Therefore, if we are to reduce energy consumption, changes are urgently needed. It is these practical and uncompromisingly high-level solutions that we are looking for to meet the challenges facing Estonia, both in the fields of technical sciences and in the fields of natural sciences, medicine, agriculture, social sciences and humanities. Let these examples be the examples of the social impact of Estonian research. Members of the Riigikogu! 2020 is the year of evaluation and new targets and, at the same time, of agreements. It is obvious that, in order to achieve research results, we must ensure adequate funding and effective organisation of research and innovation. This remains a government priority. Apart from state measures, it is essential that Estonian innovation and private sector R &amp; D be given new breathing by the companies themselves. The government alone has a pretty hard time making progress here. The high level of research and development in Estonia could be used even more in the next decade to address the major societal concerns of both Estonia and the rest of the world. Let us develop new technologies, let us explore the problems we face as a country and as a nation. We have what to show the world and what to stand together for progress. Estonian excellence in science and higher education is a value that helps us to continue as a state and nation, but we must not take it for granted. I would like to thank the Scientific and Development Council, the Estonian Academy of Sciences, his President Tarmo Soomet personally, the State Chancellery and his good colleagues, the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance for their presentation and preparation process. I would like to thank the Riigikogu, the Chairman of the Committee on Culture and the entire Committee on Culture. Thank you to universities and all scientists again for a very busy year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U100	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your presentation. You have questions too. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! There was a great deal of talk in your presentation about the R &amp; D expenditure needed, which has been discussed over the last 28 years and how they have been used, too, for the last 28 years. Whether the result is good or bad, you never know. You talked a lot about science and good indicators, quoting scientists, articles, etc. Many entrepreneurs ask, as well as public opinions often say, that money is and will be spent, but where is the result? I looked at the website of Statistics Estonia, which data shows us development and innovation. Interesting thing was that there was no keyword 'patent', the search couldn't find it. It turns out that we have 1772 innovative companies and 78 companies have applied for the patent. This is not very much because, as you said yourself, we have 100,000 companies operating. Does the Government of the Republic have any overview of patents, trademarks, the registration of a useful model and its dynamics, how it goes in which direction, up or down? And does the government have any policy to influence this process? Sorry for the long question.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U102	Thank you for this question. Yeah, I think you're absolutely right about that. How, then, can we assess whether we have contributed enough or contributed little to this circuit over the past 30 years, no doubt that somebody thinks we have contributed too much to R &amp; D? However, as I said in my report, we have not actually been able to achieve our goal of 1% of public GDP going to R &amp; D. We are, let's say, a round of 70 to 100 million away, which we still have to bet on in order to get to that in a year. In that sense, I agree with you. On the other hand, as I have also pointed out, there has always been a great dilemma or the objective that we can contribute more when we are talking about the balance between competitive research grants and basic financing. I think that how much of this science really gets into everyday life is one of the most important issues. I will now try to start a bit further in answering your question and then finally give an overview of the patent and the trademarks. If we take investment in development, it is clear that they are expensive, they are risky, they are often very long-term with a payback period. R &amp; D expenditure in the business sector, as I said in my presentation And this is, in fact, a major challenge, what should we do more in society to get more input from the private sector into research development? To be honest, I am quite convinced that there are more than 238 of these companies. Very often, it may also be a question of a great deal of red tape as soon as it is declared, all analyses carried out and all forms completed, that means filling out a large number of pages and fields. But like I said, it's definitely not the only solution. How can we motivate more business development? I think that there are many of these opportunities in Estonia, and some of them we also use, such as the same smart specialisation, the support measure for applied research in growth areas in NUTIKA, which contributes to applied research in the interests of entrepreneurs in research institutions. Now, further, since 2018, EAS provides companies with this product development support, for which there has been quite a high interest. EAS measures include a number of other measures to encourage cooperation between companies and researchers with large budgets, such as technology development centres, clusters, innovative public procurement support measures, innovation and development shares. The share of business contracts in the basic funding formula for research institutions has also been increased. What else has been done? The ADAPTER platform for joint business cooperation between universities has been set up to help entrepreneurs and researchers quickly connect together. The HTM has launched sectoral research programmes according to business needs: the ICT programme was launched in 2018, for example, and the resource enhancement programme will be launched this year. Certainly, I think it is important, as I mentioned in my presentation, that the pilot project supports the recruitment of development advisors to entrepreneurship federations. We have started hiring development advisors in ministries, it's in work, it's going well, I think, but it's important that we get them to the umbrella organisations of different companies. Now on, the research agency also offers researchers development grants to develop phases of interest in their research results for businesses. I would also like to highlight this here, I think I have said this every time I have had the honour of doing a presentation here on this subject, that we have taken a course in the last three or four years so that Estonia becomes a full member of CERN. I'm sure that'll help too. Now your question specifically on this patent and the inventory of trademarks. I really don't have a bill to give you right now, but I promise you I'll send you that numerical review. In general, I think it's important, but, yes, to say a specific number here, I don't have that readiness right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U103	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In your speech, you made a call for us to implement the science agreement together. I think you will also understand that, after retreating from the aims of this science treaty, there are not many millions and others that are very serious or credible. But let me talk to you about something else. It was in the previous reply that you said that there was a great deal of support for businesses through research and innovation measures or grants. A year ago, in this session, Anne Sulling asked you about applied research, and you replied literally: 'I believe that this idea will in any case be on the table in the next Riigikogu or in the creation of a coalition. " What do you say about this now, and where is the thought?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U105	Thank you. First of all, this criticism of yours is linked, I think, to the signature given by the representatives of all parties to the President of the Republic, as well as to the business organisation and a few others. I understand that criticism. I am not happy to look you in the face that, in front of you today, I cannot say that the public sector contributes 1% to research and development. I can't say that. I can tell you what our real information is based on data from Statistics Estonia in 2018. Like I said, we've seen that this percentage is going to be 0.79 right now. We can say that if we compare the amount as a sum for 2019 and 2020, the government has put public money in it. I understand your criticism when you say that this is not credible, but we have really made an effort with the government, and both the country's budget strategy and the state budget have actually increased the funds. What exactly will the percentage of GDP be when the year is over, it is quite ungrateful to predict today, because we will find out the 2019 percentages, say, at the end of the summer of this year or in the autumn. Now, the other part of your question. Yes, in the previous composition, we had a member of the Riigikogu who was in a good way a spokesperson for the Applied Research Centre. What is the status of the Applied Research Centre now? I know that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is engaged in the transformation of this entire innovation support service, extending the provision of innovation support services to EAS. One option is to create an innovation agency, I stress. I know that, as a next step, the possibilities of supporting applied research will be analysed and the Government's Committee on Economic Development hopes to discuss this issue before this summer. So I can say, like I said last time, that this topic is still on the table this year. I guess we'll just have to do these tests. But I also want to say that we must certainly take into account, in the possible creation of this centre for applied research, that there is no way that universities can be excluded here. If such a centre arises at one point, it requires thorough negotiation and very good cooperation with universities, so that there is no point in overdrawing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U106	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I very much agree that, certainly, looking back to 2019, there are things that you have to be proud of, and you listed quite a few of them. You also pointed out that there could actually be more companies investing in R &amp; D and innovation. I guess that's what's in the big picture. While we ourselves had a state and a private sector of 1.4%, the European Union average is 2% and the target is 3%, so there is plenty of room for it. In the same report on the Estonian R &amp; D and innovation system, to which you referred, there were very many good recommendations, as well as the reasons why we are now where we are. We have no focus, we have a fragmented approach. Jüri Jaanson was already talking about the Applied Research Centre here, namely one bridge missing between science and entrepreneurship. I ask you, however, about the 2035 strategy. You talked a lot about the process here, and how does it come together? What are the priorities of the government that this strategy should achieve?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U107	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U108	Thank you. First of all, I'm going to start with this because we like to speak numbers in the language, and you brought it up 1.4% compared to 2%, so I'm going to bring one number. According to Statistics Estonia, public expenditure on R &amp; D amounted to EUR 204.7 million in 2018, and, as I said, it was 0.79% of GDP. You have brought this European Union average, so let me bring back the European Union average in the second weight category. If we compare it with the European Union average in 2018, it should be said that, as far as I know, it was 0.69% of GDP, and here we can say that we had 0.79%. Well, the language of numbers is nice, but, as I said, our goal is actually another: to actually reach 1%. Now 'Estonia 2035'. True, this long approach, whether it can be called now to look behind the horizon or not, is, in my opinion, a first. When it comes to the state of the development strategy 'Estonia 2035', first I say that it has been led by the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Finance, it has been going on for a year and a half or more. The working version of the document is about to be completed. Based on the analysis of external trends and the situation in Estonia, Estonia's nine development needs have been formulated in cooperation with many partners. Since you asked, I'll read them out. First of all, a successful adaptation to changes in the population. Secondly, security and security. Thirdly, creating assumptions for smart entrepreneurship growth. Further, improving human health and extending life expectancy. Next, the creation of flexible learning opportunities that take into account people's needs. Maintaining a diverse natural environment. Smart governance of the state in cooperation with the people. Reducing social divides. Last but not least, space and infrastructure suited to society's needs. The objectives of Estonia's long-term strategy have also been formulated as a result of broad involvement, which are as follows: First of all, there are active, intelligent and healthy people living in Estonia. Secondly, the Estonian economy is strong, innovative and responsible. Thirdly, Estonia has a living environment that takes into account everyone's needs, is safe and is of high quality. Fourthly, Estonian society is caring, open and cooperative. Fifthly, Estonia is an innovative, reliable and human-centred country. So the basis for achieving these goals is a democratic and secure state where the preservation of the Estonian language, Estonian culture and definitely Estonian people is ensured. The selection of performance indicators and the drafting of the text of the document are currently taking place. As far as I know, in spring 2020, we want to discuss and approve this final text in the government. And I think it is right that this document 'Estonia 2035' should then come to the Riigikogu to give it its final assessment and decide on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U109	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I would still come back to this subject, which is also the biggest gap in our research and development, and which, in fact, in your report, remained the biggest gap, namely the transfer of knowledge to the economy. I'd still like to fill that void. You admitted that the establishment of an Applied Research Centre or some such institute is on the table, and it has been a success in many countries. We would like to have him in particular, because the 200-300 companies involved in R &amp; D are still a very small part. Our small and medium-sized companies do not have R &amp; D units. You're still saying the same thing every year that we have these technology development centers' TAK programs. However, they do not work that way because they are fragmented, which has been referred to by the EAS itself. Then you also said that the Minister for Economic Affairs would extend the scope of innovation measures and the subject of an innovation agency. Will this gap be filled with such fine-tuning, i.e., the transition to the economy? It is also the case that this Institute of Applied Research does not fit in 0.8% of the funding. Is there progress to be made here, or will such fine-tuning continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U111	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'm going to quote one place again from my speech. I used the statement of Rector Jaak Aaviksoo in the latest Riigikogu Working Papers, where he said that a reasonable balance should be found between the eccentricity of science and the relevance of society. I think, in fact, this is largely what you asked about. I myself think that in my speech there was more of this business side than too much, now you say there isn't at all. Maybe it'll be like usual church in the middle of the village. You resent this fine-tuning process, but it has been the goal of the Estonian state at one point. We are going back to the political debate, but, let us be honest, even the head of government, I am not talking about myself right now, said that we do not need any major narratives here, we need fine-tuning. I don't know, don't hit that idea so hard, maybe that's what his vision really needed at the time. But what do I say? We cannot, as a government, force companies to act. We certainly cannot create such an environment, and there must still be such an environment for cooperation, I mean cooperation with the private sector. We can create such supportive structures. We can help businesses to use and comply with them. I think it's important. It is also the solution that we will start innovation by raising awareness and then we will reach applied research. I say frankly that I welcome the Applied Research Centre in a very positive way to Mrs Anne Sulling. Sincerely! The re-establishment of the EAS innovation agency is, after all, the first sign of what you asked about, Mr Aivar Sõerd. Surely there are steps we have taken. And I am not going to read what I said to Mr Kallas, but there are many answers to your questions there too, at least in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U112	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U113	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In your speech, you repeatedly mentioned the importance of finding new solutions through science and also exploring important problems. But under the Science Financing Agreement, this would have meant that EUR 47 million would have been added to the Science Facility each year. That hasn't really happened. In fact, such a decision has already affected the Estonian scientific community in many ways, and the latest inconsistencies have arisen in the distribution of project money. Here's the question. If you look at the science-based distribution of project funding this year, there has been quite a rapid mismatch in the percentage of acceptance of applications, with the social sciences and the humanities being 11% and 15% respectively, while all others are 20% and 30% respectively. I don't know if you can answer what this disproportionate decision is about. But the question would be rather this: what is the future of institutions that did not receive support, and what is the future of those who received less support? From some point of view, damage will occur. For example, if a specialist with years of very specific skills leaves for another job, he does not come back easily.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U114	Thank you. Well, I don't know if it's really the result of what this research facility finally has in terms of sum, even though there is, of course, a problem. I don't think I'm wrong if I say we've discussed this at least twice in the TAN. What to deny is that Estonian universities see it quite differently. Some say that their contribution to the field has been small over the years, inadequate. Well, they hardly think it has been excessive in other areas then, but of course they want to increase funding for their areas. I think we have agreed that for the third time we will be discussing this in TAN this year, it should be in February, perhaps next month. This particular formula or percentages come from ETAg algorithms, as far as I know, but they can always be changed. I am not saying here in the Riigikogu Chair that this criticism is not correct, that we do not have 1%, and I am not going to talk about history or that everyone has been able to raise it. Today, the question is on the government's desk and on my desk. Of course it's a problem. Of course, we want to increase funding and we have done so. However, this question does not, in my opinion, relate only to the sum of the sum of the sum of the amounts, but also to the general approach. There are different opinions. As I said, it must in any case be discussed at the TAN. I think it's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U115	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U116	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! You have described very nicely that we have many excellent scientists who contribute to Estonia's survival and our future challenges. I totally agree. But I'm worried about the social guarantees of these fine scientists. Half of Estonian research money is directed to universities and other research institutions as grants. And universities usually have open-ended employment contracts with researchers. If the grant ends, the salary will end, the contract will be unpaid. Information about the new grant is generally received at the end of the year when the previous grant ends. If a scientist does not get his grant, there is no buffer money, there is no time to apply for a new grant or, in the meantime, to find a new job. A person with a doctoral degree has two options: either to terminate the contract or to accept a temporary reduction in the burden, for example, to 0.1 to 0.2 if another project can cover the amount of work in this area. As a general rule, unemployment insurance cannot be turned to the Unemployment Insurance Fund because institutes in need of money do not want to concentrate their employees, leaving with the agreement of the parties. To solve such a problem...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U117	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U118	Any way to solve it, we need extra money. Will we make unemployment insurance benefits more generous, whether we are creating a transition, how to finance a researcher's livelihood during the period when he has completed one grant, but the result of the second is still waiting for him. We will increase research funding so that most grants can be funded...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U119	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U120	For example, it would be 30% instead of 15%. Do you consider the current system reasonable? How should this concern be addressed, which alternative should be financed and where will the money be found?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U121	Thank you. First of all, yes, I follow this principle that the university itself decides to use its own internal resources. This has been a fundamental principle. The second principle, which you have also mentioned: it is certainly important that we make an effort to value researchers in any case. In any case, we need to think about what this may be one way to cultivate young people's interest that they would like to come into more science. You were talking about people taking a doctorate. Next, you know it yourself as a member of the government, that there is no such, I don't know, organization of the Government of the Republic by which we determine the salaries of scientists. This is not the case in Estonia. And I think it's a good principle that it doesn't work that way. What I can say is that we have multiplied the basic funding and we expect that money to reach the right people within the university. I remember, in the previous composition, there was a question of I do not know if it reached the big hall, but it was certainly discussed in the Committee on Culture that quite a lot has been contributed to raising the minimum wage for teachers. There are dangers, or real examples, where people working at a university either leave the university or reduce the burden and move to secondary schools, upper secondary schools. We have also contributed EUR 5 million to universities this year to increase the payroll fund. If I'm not mistaken, it's $4.5 million last year. So, in my opinion, this is the right thing, in any case, but once again: we still have to rely on the university deciding on the internal distribution of money. In my opinion, the broader question is, in fact, how we increase the popularity or prospects of a research career, especially in the eyes of young people, so that more young people come and stay in science. As I said in my report, and also in answering Mr Kallas' question, we have increased basic research funding, which will ensure greater stability in the career of researchers. As you have pointed out, a grant may be lost at some point, or there will be no funding for any other reason. It is certainly important to improve the relationship between basic funding and research grants. Right now it's 50: 50, but a few years ago it was a pretty remote goal and the real relationship was, like I said, 2/3 and 1/3. I know that the Ministry of Education and Research is coming up with proposals on how to create opportunities for doctoral students to become junior researchers. This would mean transforming doctoral student support into a junior researcher's salary, which in turn would certainly improve the social security of these people. Hopefully, these changes will also lead to greater interest in doctoral studies. Just for information: when the number of doctorate protections increased until 2017 and reached 253, for example, in 2018 it has slightly decreased to 244. The Estonian Research Council is involved in the popularization of science, and on their initiative a popular TV programme called Rocket 69 is being made, which has just started its tenth season.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U122	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your presentation you pointed out that in Estonian society, more attention should be paid to problematic areas of research and development and innovation. I ask you what you think are the areas that should receive much more attention in the coming years. Perhaps 'attention' is the wrong word to receive more support?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U124	Thank you very much for this question. Mr Sutt asked, if I am not mistaken, generally 'Estonia 2035' about major areas and big targets. I would point out that, as far as I can tell, Mrs Ratso did not focus on areas as much as on problems. You have to focus on the problems. It was his idea. I told you what these big targets are, I'm not going to repeat that right now. You can take it out of the verbogram, you can take it out of the 'Estonia 2035' document project. I think it's actually a big challenge. As I said, nine Estonia's development needs have been formulated and, on the other hand, Estonia's long-term strategic goals have been formulated. If you want, I can repeat them, but I'd stay... [[Something they say in the hall.]] Yeah, I'm definitely gonna join the vision that's here. I'm not saying here, I don't know that seven out of nine are pointless and two are reasonable. As I said, it's been worked on for a year and a half, a pretty big job has been done. Actually, these are the big problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U125	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U126	Prime Minister! I first wanted to congratulate you very much for the fact that when the government decided that Estonia would be climate-neutral by 2050, you personally emphasised that your own determination is based on a study of the Tallinn branch of the Stockholm Institute for the Environment. It is a great recognition for the scientific community that the Prime Minister in a decision states directly that he relies very clearly on a study. I changed my mind on my question after yesterday's "Actual Camera," where I saw that the Tartu Literary Museum, a very recognized and important research institution, was very concerned that they did not receive any science grants for the new year, but requested six or seven. There is a very strong contradiction here with the proposal made by coalition parties in September to strengthen the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language. Remember, that's the document we're planning to develop. At the same time, no science grunts are now claimed to be separated in the field of Estonian literature throughout Estonia. If I understood you correctly, you said earlier that, as chairman of the Scientific and Development Council, you might see the need to reconsider the foundations of grant awards. Do I understand this correctly that you consider it important to give greater value to social sciences and humanities? That's the first half of the question. Secondly, the question should not be posed by a social democrat, but by one of your coalition partners from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia or the Fatherland: do you think that international popularity, the international dimension, is too important to decide on grants? So my question is whether social sciences and humanities are close to your heart and important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U127	I can't imagine how I could say they're not close to my heart. Yeah, they're still close to the heart. You had a lot of questions, so I'm trying to do as many so-called slices as I remember. First of all, this final remark: you said somehow that too much is often taken into account in the criterion of internationalisation. What am I saying? That is about the same question Mr Kallas asked. I certainly can't tell you from these six-sevens, which were precisely the reasons for the non-financing or funding. I would like to say that when speaking Estonian, the Ministry of Education and Research is currently preparing the development plan for the Estonian language. I think that when it comes to the international dimension that you brought in, we need not be afraid of international competition. We don't have to be afraid of that. Now, if you bring the TAN in for a second, this year the TAN membership has increased by three members. My suggestion or request was that a representative of the University of Tallinn, the rector of Tallinn University, should come. The idea was to take more account of the view of humanities and social sciences, and that was actually one very big reason. I'm glad he's joined the TAN team. I do not know whether the undertone of this question was also how to look at the state of development of national sciences at all. This has usually been one of the concerns of the Riigikogu. In my report, I pointed out that I think the overall situation is satisfactory, that it is more like being on the rise, that it is understood what the problems are and what the challenges are. In 2017, the Centre of Excellence for Estonian Studies began its work, which is an inter-agency unit of international excellence created to study the outstanding fields of national sciences. We talk about money very often and very often also in the case of R &amp; D. On the basis of the management contract of the University of Tartu, the state supports the national profession with approximately 1.2 million a year. As far as I know, it supports a total of 11 professorships in the fields of Estonian language, culture and history, and supports both studies and research. The state also allocates an additional 5% to support national science in the basic funding of research institutions. In 2019, this volume was more than EUR 1,9 million, with an increase of half a million compared to 2018. Similarly, as I said, the HTM programme is 'Estonian Language Technology 2018 just over 2027'. The aim is to create new applications for Estonian language and language technology, to improve the quality of existing applications and to introduce these solutions in as many areas as possible, be it the private sector, be it the public sector or be it the third sector. In 2019 the language research programme was launched, which is 'Estonian language and culture in the digital age'. Two doctoral schools also operate in the field of humanities and arts: a doctoral school for cultural sciences and arts and a doctoral school for linguistics, philosophy and semiotics.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U128	Ladies and gentlemen, let us fit the question into a minute. We've already had two two-minute questions here. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U129	I'm trying to do the best I can, Mr. President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! The Government of the Republic made yesterday, I think, a relatively reasonable decision to form the Estonian Language Board. At the same time, I am concerned about the fate of the Estonian Language Institute. The Institute of the Estonian Language has carried out different tasks compared to the current Language Inspectorate and although it has been confirmed that the Institute of the Estonian Language remains a separate institution, it is estimated that 75% of the Institute's functions will be transferred to the language department to be formed, which in fact means the gradual extinction of the Institute of the Estonian Language. Can you confirm today that the Institute of the Estonian Language will remain a separate institution and that their very necessary functions will not be transferred to the language department to be formed?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U130	Thank you for this question. As far as I know, the Government of the Republic didn't make any such decisions yesterday. But that's the plan. This plan is in the debate phase, in the debate phase.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U131	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! You spoke of the achievements of scientists and science collectives. Naturally, the results of Estonian scientists are impressive. At the same time, you put on quite a new burden of hopes and responsibilities for scientists and, in principle, failed to speak about how, as Prime Minister, as head of the state executive, you support even faster scientific progress. Researchers and entrepreneurs have made four recommendations to the government. First, increase the volume of R &amp; D investment to 1% of GDP. Secondly, reduce the project base of Estonian science and increase the share of basic funding. Thirdly, to develop a uniform model of research careers governed by national law. Fourthly, create systematic coherence between science, education, entrepreneurship and politics. I believe that right now, on the web, scientists are watching us want to know whether your government is acting to move forward with these proposals and, if so, how. Would you please answer them?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U133	Thank you for your question. Of course I will. To be honest, I don't know the proportion of basic funding. Maybe you have some other data, but as far as I know, it's been raised. The goal has always been, as I said, 50-50 intercourse. Last year the relationship was still, I think I remember correctly, 49:51. Now it's 50:50. As for the beginning of your question, how I say it, I hope that this objective will not remain evergreen. At some point this 1% will be achieved. We are really working with the current government on this, that is our goal. I have mentioned measures to support entrepreneurs today and I do not think I will rename them. The message is certainly that entrepreneurs and researchers must contribute. I think it's important to us. You were talking about basic funding, it has tripled in a few years. In 2016, it was 13.88 million a year, then in 2020 it will be EUR 42.3 million. It was one of your concerns. Speaking of this relationship, that's, I'm sorry to say it again, but if you ask me, I'm gonna say that that ratio is going to reach 50:50 this year. So, speaking of the 2000 national budget strategy financing scheme, it also provides additional funding for R &amp; D, which is the financing of basic instruments, research grants and basic funding, certainly the R &amp; D institutions and higher education institutions' development programmes, the R &amp; D activities carried out in international cooperation, that is what I was actually talking about, this is the smart city project, increasing the development capacity of companies, more specifically supporting research and business development teams, and supporting research and development investments by companies, including applied research. These are the changes that come with the same basic financing.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U134	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U135	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! In the 21st century, science and technology can have a profound influence on the geopolitics of countries and the power relationships between them. For example, the People's Republic of China has invested heavily in biotechnology, nanotechnology and genetics in order to achieve asymmetrically high strategic benefits. How much of the funding of Estonian science could go to such areas in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U136	Thank you. I think that you now specifically want funds on a sector-by-sector basis. I'm sure there's no such distribution. What does the government want, the public sector? The desire is for us to be able to increase funding for research and development. You brought out one of the world's largest economies in China. It is clear that we can hardly compete with China in these areas, in financial terms alone. But, yes, unfortunately, I have no specific amounts to bring. I think that our great strength has been, for example, the ICT sector in which we have invested a great deal, including certainly cybersecurity, where we have made progress. I hope that we will be able to focus more and more on our defence industry in R &amp; D. I think it's important. We have quite good examples in the field of biotechnology and, of course, we cannot get over or around the genetic resource. Estonia has its strengths, but yes, this ambition is perhaps a little too big in financial terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U137	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I will also try to ask briefly. For starters, I suggest you read an article. Sirbis Eneli Kindsiko, the docent of the University of Tartu, just released an article entitled 'Siloplarization of Knowledge', which deals with research funding and the financing of newly made personal research grants. It makes it look like scientists are worried. Only a quarter of the applications submitted were accepted, and there is a particular problem, at least according to this article, but I have also talked to people about humanities. You also stressed in your report that Estonian-specific studies are crucial, and sometimes they are the only way to solve our affairs. As a humanitarian, I am particularly concerned about this. Estonian language, literature, history, things like this. The question is specific, and maybe you can get on with it, I don't expect an answer. Currently, the Estonian Research Council's assessment methodology is such that when evaluating Estonian-specific project applications, the score is multiplied by 0.8, which means that Estonian-specific studies are in a more difficult situation than so-called global studies. This, in my opinion, is in direct contradiction with national political science. Why is that, and is it not intended to be corrected?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U138	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U139	Thank you very much for this question. First of all, thank you for your reading recommendation, and I will read the article! Let's go. I actually already answered that question, but I'm gonna answer it one more time. What you are talking about was, in my opinion, the last round that was carried out on the basis of the so-called old algorithm. As I have already told you, it is now under discussion to change it. We will discuss this issue for the third time in TAN in February of this year. So it's fully operational right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U140	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U141	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister! In your presentation you stressed that experts who carried out both the assessment of the Research and Development Council and the Estonian research and innovation system have stressed that Estonian science needs clearer priorities. Jaak Aaviksoo, Rector of Tallinn University of Technology, writes the same in his article, which you also quoted in the article 'Science and Money' in the Working Papers of the Riigikogu. I quote: 'To achieve results, political choices and targets need to be made. Scientists need clarity in their goals and confidence. " According to what you said in this speech chair, we are living in a time of wicked troubles with a pretty good wording! I ask: what is the most so-called wicked problem in Estonia, seen by the Prime Minister? And are you leading the government towards political choices to solve this problem? Please state the most important problem in terms of your own interests or your own goals. You have repeatedly mentioned a number of problems to the Committee on Culture in your presentation and also yesterday in your written presentation, and these are really important, but I am really interested in the most burning problem for you in Estonia, which scientists could help solve if there were specific political guidelines.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U142	Thank you for this very interesting question. Well, of course, I have this 'bad problems' in the text in quotes. How to solve them is a question of your own. You're asking me this one problem. This is such an Estonian question: what is this one thing, the big thing that I think should be resolved? I don't know, maybe you'll let me extend that answer a little bit, not just say one word. If I could say one word, that word is 'demography'. Perhaps even more broadly, the goal is definitely the survival of the Estonian people through the ages, the Estonian language, the Estonian culture. It's important, okay? I will certainly also mention what I think I have mentioned to Mr Sut: longer lifespan, public health, especially healthy years, are also very important problems or challenges. So maybe that's what this evil is about, we can't solve these problems with one finger or a move. I think I would be very original if I did not say today that one big issue certainly relates to the whole environmental and climate area. I understand that my story is already dragging when I call you five or six challenges. But if you don't mind, maybe I'll just keep thinking. I myself think and have also said that we should still think seriously about what we are doing with our natural resources, opening up this debate. This is a very difficult topic in Estonian society, but I think it is necessary to start a new analysis of Estonian natural resources, including mineral resources, in certain cases. This is also important for the business sector, for our exports. I think an autopsy of all this stuff would require a bolder start.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U143	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In April 2018, Haaga-Helia University of Applied Sciences announced that in autumn 2019 it will open a university of applied sciences focusing mainly on the services sector for 400 students in Tallinn. As you know, Haaga-Helia University of Applied Sciences is a well-known professional school in Finland with five campuses across the country. They also have international partners in the United States, Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland. Known companies have school partners such as Ikea, Turkish Airlines, Fujitsu and others. But what has happened? What has happened is that the current government of Jüri Ratas showed a red light to Haaga-Helia's school. Namely, the Estonian Ministry of Education did not authorise the school after the Ministry of the Interior's application, and on 21 November 2019 the Rector of Haaga-Helia University...
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U145	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U146	... Teemu Kokko I am about to conclude that they were told that since there are foreign students at the university, this is a problem in Estonia's current political climate. Good Prime Minister, please tell me how beautiful words about successful Estonia coincide with such actions of your government.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U147	I think you named the year 2018, if I'm not mistaken. I don't have this report on hand, but as you said, this input came from the Home Office. Of course, these promises are appreciated in Estonia, and hardly the Ministry of the Interior has any other considerations than security considerations. But if you ask why this authorisation was not specifically issued, I do not have that decision at hand. It's such a specific question. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U148	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! About 25% of Estonian doctoral students come from outside Estonia. And as you yourself said in your speech, the number of doctoral students, unfortunately, does not increase; rather, there will be fewer of them every year. And no wonder: a doctoral student who actually applies for the highest degree in education and who should do top-level science will essentially receive a minimum wage. The doctoral student allowance is EUR 600 per month. In many countries, this issue has been resolved by employing doctoral students at the university, getting the average wage in the country and being equated, for example, to a junior researcher. I wonder if you have discussed this issue in the government or whether you support this principle so that the doctoral student can at least receive an average salary. And if you support it, why hasn't it been done so far? Is there any other reason besides the government's failure to find the money needed to promote higher education?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U150	Thank you for this question. I thought I answered Katri Raig on this subject, but I certainly will not find it difficult to answer you again. The Ministry of Education and Research is preparing proposals on how to create opportunities for doctoral students to become a junior researcher. That is the subject you addressed in your question. This would mean transforming the doctoral student grant into a junior researcher's salary, which in turn would mean an increase in the sense of social security for these people. Hopefully, these changes will also lead to greater interest in doctoral studies. But I really did bring the statistics back when I answered Katri Raig.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U151	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U152	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Everyone has their own fields, their own favorite topics, and I'd like to go to agricultural science. Food and the environment are as strategic topics; agricultural science is mainly applied. A farmer pays quite a lot of research through innovation clusters from his wallet, and often he gets results from his wallet. At the same time, there are some areas of food safety and the environment where research should not be paid for by the farmer with his own money. However, it is often not only about money but also about how money is directed. My question to you is this: what is your vision, do we want and can we change the mind template in the future so that, as a result, applied research will be given some extra money in agriculture?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U153	Thank you. Thank you for this important question. Thank you very much. All R &amp; D in this area is curated by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. It's their place. Now, in answer to your question, I don't know about attitude or mind template, I think we definitely want to change that approach. But we have to consider that this problem actually includes the issue of extra money. It is certainly linked to the finances; it is not linked to just one document or decision. So what do I say? The enhancement of local resources, including the enhancement of our agricultural products, is certainly a priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U154	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U155	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I would like to continue with Mr Mihkelson's question. Haaga-Helia is the largest tourism and hotel business school in the Nordic countries. In fact, it is quite a concern that they were not given a training permit here, because in this area we are much short of working hands in Estonia. And Estonians have gone to study and education in Finland. It creates such a funny situation that we Estonians can go there and study there and it's okay, but if the school wants to come here to teach, we can see a security threat in it. I would ask you, however, to clarify what danger is seen there. And if you are not able to answer at the moment, you have kindly promised to send a reply in writing to another question, can you also clarify this and send us the answer, which was the security threat that this school did not get a training permit here?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U156	The answer to you is, of course I can. I really don't have the detailed information you're asking for. But I think the general principle is what you actually pointed out in your question: our people quite often acquire knowledge outside Estonia, and we must think in another direction. I guess we'll have to think better in the future about how to make these big decisions. But I'm sure I'll send you the motives of the decision you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U157	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U158	Thanks for the presentation. There has been a lot of talk about underfunding science, and there is always a limited amount of money. It is a question of deciding where we share the money, what we do specifically with the money. Having heard Jüri Ratas speak here today before us and saying that there is a need to increase research funding, the question arose as to whether he is not a prime minister who has the power to direct the development of the country and to decide on the state budget as well. But since there's been a lot of talk about it, I wouldn't waste my five minutes on it. The government, led by the Prime Minister, should show by action what it speaks with its mouth and allocate more money to science. But it is also important that this money is allocated to which and how. And there are a number of points. Firstly, we know from the point of view of innovation that applied research is the biggest bottleneck for our economy and business. Nobody contrasts these two, I mean basic science and applied research, but the basic science at the beginning of the research chain is funded from the state budget. Basic science is done at universities, it's on a very good level. At the other end of this chain there are prototypes, i.e. already made-up products and services. Their construction and testing are financed by private operators. However, in order to reach it, several phases of applied research need to be carried out, which seems to fall apart somewhere. But without applied research, there will be no end products or services that are innovative and lead the economy forward. Therefore, our proposal is to set up a centre of applied research separate from universities, which, for example, will serve as a model for VTT in Finland. This centre would deal with the phases in their lumber and contribute to the achievement of ideas developed in science into the economy, thereby increasing the prosperity of society as a whole. Secondly, there was also concern about the development of Estonian language and culture. Indeed, Estonia is a small country. The user community of our language and culture is small and nobody has an interest in developing Estonian language and culture outside Estonia. Therefore, we must make sure that only the areas concerning Estonia are not part of the orphan's funding. However, as came out of the questions here, the criteria for assessing the research grants of the Estonian Research Council do not value these researches that Estonia needs. The situation of the Estonian Language Institute was already discussed here. These areas must not be part of the orphanage. Now, third. In life and society, different processes are interrelated; they do not exist in a vacuum. This should also be taken into account in the funding of science. Cross-cutting cooperation and the end result should be rewarded. This week Sirbis Eneli Kindsiko also wrote that there is a big difference between whether research money is awarded on the basis of a field or on the basis of important problems for the state. The aim should be to tackle cross-cutting issues that are important to the country. And fourth. They say you get what you measure. Thus, research funding metrics should be clearly in place. If research aims at innovation in the economy or society at large, it should be supported by appropriate indicators. If we evaluate, above all, and only the number of scientific articles, we will receive them in return. If we measure cooperation with other sectors or businesses, it is more likely that we will also get results. And finally. The state's economic success can be based on three factors: first natural resources, second cheap labour and thirdly knowledge, skills and technology. We do not have many natural resources and we do not want to spend what we have. We are no longer cheap labour land and we do not want to be cheap labour land either. Our only path is knowledge, skills and technology. To this end, however, we must invest in research and development and do so wisely. Only in this way can we move towards a society with technological wisdom and pure nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U159	Thank you. Katri Raik, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U160	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to science, it is primarily our custom to talk about money in Estonia, nor can I get past it. We have all heard about the science treaty and 1% of GDP infinity and are able to talk for a long time. But it is not just the dream of Estonian scientists; it is also a recommendation from the OECD and the European Commission to us. Only in this way, as a country, can we succeed in promoting our science. It is wrong to say that the current government has done nothing. It's done! The percentage of our research funding compared to GDP has improved. There has certainly been an improvement in cooperation between different ministries, certainly ministries alongside the Ministry of Education and Research have more valued research and development. It's just good. But the pace is unfortunately not enough. Speaking to scientists, it is clear that their disappointment is great. Let me give you an example, from another field. At the conference of the Centre for Development in November, participants were asked what kind of Estonia you want, which Estonian development scenario. Two thirds of the people replied that they wanted a growth centre in Estonia, which has several development centres that can adapt to ecological changes in the environment. Another question was asked at the conference: what do you think will come to Estonia? And 85% said there would be a great Tallinn. I mean, we no longer believe that we can influence processes in our country. We think there's gonna be some kind of decision. It was a disappointment for the people who sat in this hall, including many scientists, many people involved in applied research. That is why I am putting to the heart of all of us, not just of the government, that funding for science must be our priority. Science funding is also a matter of priority today. We are planning to put EUR 1.7 billion in PPP projects on four-line roads. What if we put that money in science? Not everyone likes it, because four-line roads are the great faith of the Estonian people. But science makes us wise, and wisdom makes us rich. And we want to be a rich country. The four - row road obviously doesn't make us smarter or much richer. I hope that together we will be able to keep research funding as a priority in all the coming years and to take even greater steps than has been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U161	Thank you. Aadu Black, please, on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U162	Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I was very excited to hear today's presentation and also the discussion. I have put away the text of my prepared speech far away because it is not necessary. Many of the issues that are important have come through here and may not need to be repeated all of them. I agree with much of what has been said. I'll take two starting points. One would be historical memory and the other would be an aspect of the Committee on Culture. I am not speaking on behalf of the Committee on Culture, but it is thanks to this committee that I have had a large part of the experience that relates to this subject. First of all, compared to the years, I must say that I have probably spoken the most in this very planned debate, and there are certainly some pleasant experiences. One-other-third-fourth-five has improved. Years ago, there was a general understanding that R &amp; D is about real and precise science, at best also about the economy. In order for the humanities, the national sciences and the first performances on this subject to come into play, I was viewed as a white crow and said that I did not understand what development was. At the moment, things have gotten very much better. During the first few years of my experience, the hall was very strong for tearing the blanket off each other. People in different fields of science tried to explain that others were doing well, but we were not doing well. Thank God, it has been overcome, and representatives of the scientific community are already able to speak on behalf of scientists as a more or less united front. It is harder for Parliament to argue with them, but ultimately it is very sympathetic. The point is that Parliament and the government, of course, are not expected to do science. We can contribute to this if we are able to act as setters. We need to make sure that the lives of scientists are not ruined. And the most important work I have noticed is that when something starts to go wrong, the members of the Committee on Culture in particular must have the courage to push the brake. There has been a great deal of reform that we do something just differently over time. Historical problems through a dozen years are a problem of pay and follow-up. Luckily, it was highlighted. We have talked about the importance of teachers' salaries, and we will continue to talk. However, we are like coaches who say that a horse should first be banged away by one of the pricks, the most important prick, but we can deal with the others later. In fact, it's still like four feet at a time. And it has indeed happened that, in order to improve the situation in general education, we have at times left the pay conditions of universities out of order. The same argument: a very good graduate of a master's degree would receive a monthly salary of EUR 1400, while we say that you will receive a salary of EUR 660 in doctoral studies. It's a very painful thing. A lot was said here about statistics. The private sector has been on the table all these years. In the meantime, we have received reports of major improvements in the private sector. But then it turned out to be statistical wonders. Not with such a miracle as in the southern republic, where the general picture was solved by the fact that if they had too many 12-13-year-olds, they were all given a passport. It's like they're 17 when they're born. We have not quite done this, but it has been that private financing has been on Mama-Papa's wallet over and over again, or that European money has been twisted to help entrepreneurship. It is probably a great job for the Riigikogu to break this mentality and create incentives. Fortunately, I stress that the moment of patriotism has already come into play in entrepreneurship itself: we are going to have a competition that can help more. And it's nice that it comes from the inside. Now, like I said, ten to a dozen years ago I was talking about... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U163	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U164	A dozen years ago, it was a big surprise when I told you that the national sciences are attributes of the nation state. History is also our collective experience, from which we must find support in our actions today. Some wonder if history is complete or not. A very short answer: a huge amount of our written national memory is stored in the archives of the countries that ruled us. Yeah, we have huge gaps in our science that need to be filled. Someone's asking why. I will bring just one European genius project to compare. They put Estonian history on the computer, on the computer and found out that the independence of the Estonian state is unlikely, as the computer says so. I told you you had an anomaly. Something's missing. It turned out that they lacked one hard-to-measure factor: the education faith of the Estonian people. National sciences have also become very advanced. I am not going to give examples here, there is no time for this, but this is what many have already said: this enterprise cannot be financed, it is a national attribute. The changes in the measurements have already been mentioned a lot, and that is correct. We are still reading the articles referred to, but the whole world has abandoned it in humanities. They say the medium is still a monograph, etc. But again, apparently it's something to write about. In the case of science, the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has tried and tried to carry on this role in order to set the track so that scientific policy decisions come as cross-party decisions as far as possible and have a longer perspective. Such an institution is needed if we can play this role or not, we do not know. The progress of science today and tomorrow, to a very large extent, is justified by long past developments. Wise people have said that Estonia, at least in this Soviet sauce, passed by a lot of others thanks to the many good initiatives of the 1960s. Indeed, a great job is to reduce professional rivalry. We have also agreed at the level of the Commission that innovation and science are not only dealt with by the Minister of Education and Research, but also by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. And that also means that we in the Riigikogu will be able to hold joint meetings of committees in order to reduce the administrative disagreement and harmonise the various handwritings. In order not to conclude with the question of why nothing is done, I say that I decided in personal terms that I will publish an extensive and substantial book in form this year, which may make an important contribution to the development of Estonian national sciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U165	Thank you. Jaak Valge, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U166	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Honourable technical staff and ladies and gentlemen. I look at the situation through the EKRE glasses and I dare to assume that the current government's R &amp; D direction is in line with our idea of where to go. In some cases, we are at the beginning of the road, but what is certain: we are not lost in some thick black forest. As a person with an academic background, of course, I would very much like to have greater funding for science, and especially higher salaries for researchers and teachers. As a politician and as a citizen, I also think that this desire is not egocentric, and our lecturers and scientists deserve it. But now I'd like to match the Prime Minister's information. Indeed, the government has, as we know, initiated the preparation of the next R &amp; D, innovation and business development plan. The recommendations to be made better than before have been made by both the Scientific and Development Council and the external experts who carried out the evaluation of the Estonian research and innovation system. Now the basics. External experts stressed that the Estonian research and innovation system needs clearer thematic priorities and these priorities should be guided by the challenges facing Estonian society. What does the EKRE programme provide? This reads as follows: we make the system of funding and evaluation of science Estonian-centred. In other words, experts repeat what is in the EKRE programme. It cannot in itself be ruled out that those external experts, led by Professor Marja Makarow of the University of Helsinki and Professor Erik Arnold of the University of Manchester, were familiar with the EKRE programme or, even more so, were inspired. That would be proud, of course, but I'm actually afraid the experts came up with this on their own. A very large part of the seaside peoples think that they were the ones who invented the sailboat, but in fact, the same good idea arose in several places on their own because the conditions were the same in these different places. The conditions under which our science operates have been seen in the same way by external experts as by internal experts in the form of EKRE politicians. I have to say, I don't get tired of praising myself. What are these conditions or indicators? Indeed, in terms of public funding, we were at a much higher level than the EU average in 2018: we had 0.79% of GDP, and we had 0.69% on average in the EU. Nevertheless, it is clear that funding for science is not sufficient. The most important reason continues to be that the proportion of research funding in Estonia is very strongly inclined towards public funding from the European average. According to the 2017 estimate, public funding accounted for on average 33% of total development and research funding in the European Union, while in Estonia it accounted for 51%. The rule of law, of course, is that, with exceptions, of course, that the greater the funding of research, the greater the proportion of private funding. It would therefore be difficult to draw a conclusion other than that the key to increasing our research funding is, above all, to increase private funding. So, and now let's ask you how to zoom in on it. I guess it's just like the EKRE and the external experts, and I'd like to see a lot of previous speakers. Namely, scientific evaluation models must be turned towards Estonia. This does not mean waiting for the private sector to wake up, nor does it mean enclosing science, but in many ways rethinking the requirement or idea of formalistic internationalisation and making science for Estonia a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U167	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please, on behalf of the Fatherland Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U168	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not feel very comfortable here in front of you because our party, like other parties, promised to increase public funding for science to at least 1%. I tried to get it done with my teeth and nails, too, but the situation is that it couldn't be done. However, I must say that funding for science remains a priority for the government and for our party. And when we talk in absolute numbers, it increased. At the same time, I think the percentages are also important. No one lives on the percentages, but the percentages indicate that society's priorities are set. I think it needs to be corrected. But perhaps even more importantly, the view is that the private sector needs to be more actively involved in funding research. The state cannot direct the private sector, but it can create more favourable conditions and encourage such expenditures. Estonian science is good, we are internationally competitive. But I must say and perhaps warn you that, first of all, this is not the result of public intervention. If we are trying to create clear priorities here and, as a country, direct science on how it needs to evolve, this has never done any good. The second thing is that the humanities in Estonia have been discriminated against at different levels. This is not good and it is precisely bad public intervention in the creative and natural process. The next question I want to raise is the link between science and education. They're mutual. We're proud of our students who scored an excellent result on the PISA test. I myself am quite skeptical about these tests and voltage lines, but still a proud feeling. This means that the Estonian school is at least, say, not in a bad position. We are proud of our students, because the students themselves are, of course, very dependent, but we must not forget the teachers either. And teachers don't grow on trees, they come from universities. Today, the position of the faculty in Estonia is not very good. We have excellent teachers, but they are no longer young, and the process of aging the faculty is getting worse. The teaching profession is still not very popular among young people. Teachers come from universities. In universities, under-financing is even stronger than in schools. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U169	It will. Three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U170	Thank you. It is not a normal situation for a successful graduate who wants to start working at his university to receive a lower salary than a schoolteacher. I'm not saying that a schoolteacher gets a lot. No, schoolteacher doesn't get much. But a scientist and a lecturer at the university gets even less. And this is not good for Estonian science. Now I want to talk about the last thing: project management in science. 'Science' is a word under which there are very different areas. The main emphasis in this Chamber is on the need for applied science and on increasing its financing. I don't want to say a word here against applied science, but applied science isn't in a vacuum, it's connected to fundamental science. Unfortunately, I have not heard a single word about that today. We have research funding mainly project-based. Project-based financing is quite good and successful, but above all in the areas of implementation: we have some kind of problem that needs to be implemented. But in fundamental science, it is often not only bad, but worse: it is pointless. Are we going to ask Einstein what results you intend to achieve in three years' time? Will relativity be completed or not, and what benefits will it bring to the national economy? The sciences are different. Agricultural science is already naturally oriented towards practice and our food table. The fundamental role in medicine is already much greater. What about math? What about quantum mechanics and astrophysics? What predetermined results do they have to write into projects? What am I saying? Projects are good, but they must not be the only financing objects. There must be stable collectives working in an area run by recognised scientists. We're talking about science, but we also need to talk about the scientific community, science doesn't develop itself. And we're talking about universities raising specialists, educating teachers, etc., but maybe the primary task of universities is to create scientists. If we have scientists, we have teachers, we have everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U171	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations are closed. The Prime Minister has the opportunity to say a few comments at last. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U172	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! First of all, thank you very much for this, I would say, very substantive debate. Once again, I would like to thank the Chairman and Members of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu for their cooperation. I thank all the political groups for their speeches. I think that there were issues in each of the speeches that we should go on with together in the debates. Good Katri, maybe it's a little strange, but I thank you for your appreciation: thank you for your pleasant words! Now for a few thoughts that went through this hall. The Applied Research Centre's idea is not dead, it is not out of discussion; this debate will continue. I understand what the honourable Kaja Kallas said: that it could be separate from universities. It's really an alternative, one possibility. It is very important to discuss in advance, in cooperation with universities, how it is seen. After all, the argument that this is a very serious risk of taking competence away from universities is in the opposite direction. We have to take that into account, too. But that doesn't mean we don't have to move on. Much has been said about the formula for research grants, both in the round of questions and answers and in the round of speeches. One might say that no one is satisfied with this, and it will be corrected. The issue of natural resources also went through, and what Mrs Aart said, talking about the agricultural sector, the rural sector, is important to me. We should go more boldly into this science, explore our natural resources. We also have environmental goals. I know that Tartu is working very hard to develop hydrogen technology, for example. So I think it's important. What we could be happy about are the same scientific advisors. The network of scientific advisors has actually started. They tried to start it for a very long time, but now we can say that I think its work has achieved a pretty good rhythm. Now, I think Katri was the one talking about four-way roads. I agree that the construction of four-line roads does not, of course, increase science. But what I'm thinking is, it's good if we can get more and more like this, I don't know, smart solutions. Quite a lot of people say that if you drive from Tallinn, this is one concrete example of the road to Pärnu, then in the first km with 2 + 2 roads, it is a smart solution that according to the road conditions, the speed is set. Just recently, a friend of mine said that you see, I was able to travel 100 kilometers an hour. In the past, 90 kilometres per hour were allowed in winter, even when there were good road conditions, and from spring onwards more than 110 were allowed. These technological solutions and IT capabilities of our own could be used even more widely. I think one important topic that has been under discussion for years and which has been discussed here today is that we still have to make an effort to make sure that higher education in Estonian is not only a bachelor's degree, but also a master's degree and doctoral degree, that the focus must be very strongly on. I can't say today that it's all very well. We have certain changes introduced into the university agreement, and this is, in my view, an important aspect that we must bear in mind. Now, don't count it out that we don't want any internationalisation. Of course, it's what universities want, but I think it's a dominant that needs to be kept very seriously focused. A great deal was also asked about cooperation between science and entrepreneurship. In any case, no one disputes that this is important. I thank Professor Black and I wish him the strength to complete this book. That would, I think, be a very nice step. So thank you all! And, of course, I cannot get over or around the fact that I thank my closest colleagues from the State Chancellery, both Henry and Anne, who have done a very, very great job of preparing my presentation today, but also everyone else. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U173	Thank you. Our first item on the agenda is exhausted, the Prime Minister's review of the state of R &amp; D and government policy has been heard and discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U174	We are going to the second item, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the arms law of the Government of the Republic, the state tax law and the strategic goods law (transposition of the Firearms Directive). I would like to ask Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U175	Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! A few words in the background to bring you to the gunfight. This is a transposition of the revised Firearms Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. In 1991 the directive sought a balance between the free movement of firearms and security requirements restricting freedom of movement, and these requirements have already been transposed into Estonian law. On the other hand, in the last decade, when the links between organised crime and terrorism became apparent, which also gave rise to serious consequences, the European Union Firearms Directive was tightened up. In order to transpose the same, improved and improved Firearms Directive, three laws are being amended in Estonia: the Weapons Act, the State Tax Act and the Strategic Goods Act. The most important changes concern the division of weapons into classes, the inclusion of cartridges within the scope of the Arms Act, as well as restrictions on the handling of certain weapons and cartridges. Let me give you some examples to explain. That's a very interesting subject, ladies! Classification is particularly important when travelling out of Estonia or to Estonia with weapons. In the case of weapons permitted to shoot athletes, a distinction shall be made as to whether they have a cartridge tray of high or conventional capacity. Accordingly, requirements are introduced for shooting athletes, and they are an additional supervised group. A number of concepts are also clarified, such as the concept of a sporting gun, a shooting sports club and a shooting sports organisation. Amendments could be tabled until 6 November, with 40 meeting. The Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia submitted 20 proposals and the National Defence Committee submitted two proposals. The amendments were also tabled by my colleague, Mr Pevkur, but, as they were a few minutes late, the Commission was able to dismiss them. However, as a number of proposals were found to be consistent with the purpose of the draft proposal and necessary, the Committee on Legal Affairs itself proposed amendments with the same content. A total of 16 amendments were tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, in cooperation with the author of the draft, in cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, resulting from proposals by stakeholders, the National Defence Committee, the EKRE Group and Hanno Pevkur. The Commission also made proposals on its own initiative. Between the first and second reading, the opinion of the Estonian Hunters' Society, the Permanent Exposition of Valga Patriotic Education, the Estonian Yachting Sports Association, the representations of museums, historical clubs and collectors, the Estonian Practical Shooting Association, the Estonian Association of Security Companies and the Estonian Assembly of Reserve Officers were asked. All the associations involved submitted their views and the representatives of the latter three also attended the meeting on 5 December. In total, the Commission prepared a second reading at four meetings. All meetings were attended by Veiko Kombusaar, Head of the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, Legal Adviser to the same department, Marju Aibast, and Advisor to Sven Põierpaa. The last session, which took place on Monday of this week, was also attended by Markko Lepik, Head of the Department of Procurement of the Ministry of Defence, and Kaido Jõgeva, Head of the Legal and Analytical Department of our own Chancellery of the Riigikogu. At first reading, the Ministry of the Interior, who prepared the draft, said that it wanted to remain within the framework of the directive, because, in order to create legal certainty and legal clarity, the arms law is going to be codified in the near future. Nevertheless, the draft directive was also inspired by various amendments. I will highlight some of these proposals in my choice. As a result of the Firearms Directive, the Weapons Act is complemented by a concept of a museum that did not exist until now. This is necessary in order to distinguish between the collections of weapons under the Museum Act and those of natural and legal collectors who collect firearms and ammunition under the Weapons Act. You're asking what the difference is. The fact that collectors who do not hold a museum are not obliged to present their weapons collections publicly, while Member States will have the opportunity to authorise both museums and collectors to acquire class A firearms and ammunition under the Firearms Directive. Class A is the toughest class. Of course, proper storage of weapons and ammunition is a prerequisite. On the proposal of the National Defence Committee, the word 'weapon' is also introduced into the law. Why? For example, for new products and technologies, where both electronics and weapons and ammunition are integrated and where the shooter and weapon are physically shot away from each other by electronic means, the word 'weapon' is undoubtedly inaccurate. The word "weapon system" reflects the nature of modern weapons much more accurately. They are also called remotely controlled weapons systems or unmanned combat aircraft, where ammunition or weapon platforms are installed. Several amendments relate to the division of weapons into classes, precisely because of the need to travel. For example, a manually recharged rifle would be class B under the Firearms Directive. However, if the weapons of this type were to be designated as Class B in Estonia, they would no longer be able to travel within the European Union on the basis of the European Union's weapons passport, by the way, with five rounds of bullets in their tray, and each time they should apply for a separate licence from the PB. A hunter who enters Estonia with a reloadable rifle should also apply for a separate permit. This would increase the administrative burden for the PBGB and make hunting tourism more difficult. This law will actually make the situation less bureaucratic if the description 'or manually recharged' is not explained in more detail; it is a very professional and technical wording simply to be deleted from the text. In the case of a mid-fire gun, it is reasonable to exclude the same feature from the manual rechargeable character even for a gun using marginal fireballs. I know there are men in this room who understand this very well. That's great! There is an amendment to the proposal concerning pneumatic or air and gas weapons. The EKRE Group considers that it is not justified to classify them in Class B. According to the arms law currently in force, this is the case, unlike the Firearms Directive. This means that such weapons would require a weapons permit, as would other weapons with limited turnover. It is becoming clearer for the small people, and for myself, to say that, for example, the two-barrel rifle of class C, which is not so dangerous, is more dangerous than the air and gas weapon as a weapon, while the same air and gas weapon of class C is also classified, if this law is adopted. One very interesting amendment concerned the handling of laser sights, even mentioned in a few amendments. The Commission did not support this proposal, and the reason was that this proposal is not linked to the transposition of the Directive and requires more in-depth analysis. I mentioned earlier the possibility of codifying the arms law and the likelihood of in this regard was agreed that this proposal needed more in-depth analysis. As we know, the laser sight is currently only allowed to engage in the relevant sport. Laser and night vision is prohibited in hunting and, of course, it is also prohibited for weapons used to protect themselves and property. The amendment tabled by the EKRE Group aims to remove the frame of arms from the list of essential components of firearms. This proposal was rejected by the Steering Committee, as the frame of arms is currently regarded as an essential part of a firearm in all the Member States of the European Union, in the same way as a gun iron and a ball of pistols. The proposal was motivated by an amendment to the arms law which came into force at the beginning of last year, placing the frame of arms in the essential parts of the firearm. It also created an obligation for their owners to obtain the relevant authorization from the PBGB and to enter the weapons frame in the service and civil weapons registers and in the owner's weapons license. A prior authorisation from the country of destination and an authorisation from the country of dispatch shall be requested in advance for the cross-border movement of the weapon frame when it is acquired or transferred. This regulation is already in line with the Firearms Directive and, if amended, the Weapons Act would no longer comply with the Directive. The foreseen one-year transitional period was, in the view of ministerial representatives, sufficient for the persons to behave legally and to make the relevant registrations, and this provision is not considered to be capable of being reversed. The Ministry promised to inform potential latecomers. There was also an amendment aimed at making the liability of a legal person more specific when the holder of a collection permit or the person responsible for the collection of weapons endangers public order. This proposal was not taken into account unanimously because it makes regulation too harsh. The gun is still in the hands of a man or a woman, not a legal person. The Commission received full support from the time classification of limited turnover cartridges. This was proposed by the representation of museums, history clubs and collectors and Hanno Pevkur. A clip intended to be manufactured before 1946 and not suitable for securing weapons of the type which were produced after 1945 shall not be considered to be a limited-volume cartridge. The number of bullets to be collected prompted the amendment to be made by the EKRE Group. The upper limit was to be raised higher than the current 50 rounds per model. This proposal again concerns those cartridges whose production started after 1945. However, according to the Directive, there is no limit to the amount of bullets to be collected. Therefore, a compromise was found and the upper limit was set at 200. It was supported by consensus. One amendment concerned shooting athletes handling firearms of Class A or limited turnover, which are prohibited firearms within the meaning of the Firearms Directive. The aim was to shorten the period during which a shooting athlete must actively engage in shooting in order to use a class A weapon. This proposal was not supported and the time dimension previously laid down remained in the draft during the two years preceding the application. Two years is a sufficient period of time to make it clear whether a shooting athlete is active and interested in sporting achievements. It's as if a shorter time doesn't give you that kind of certainty. This amendment does not add an administrative burden, as the draft states that the burden of proof lies with the sportsman engaged in shooting sport. Another interesting amendment. This proposal aims to amend the limits for legally permitted rounds, as the existing limits for ammunition storage do not allow the arms owner to exercise sufficient training. It is the opinion of the initiator of the draft act that this proposal will certainly be considered in the future, namely in relation to the codification of the arms law, when a new draft law is being developed. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, which concerns the principle contained in the arms law, is also important: the application for a weapons permit and a acquisition permit must be submitted to the PBGB in writing. At the same time, we were told that last March it was also possible to submit applications in an e-environment through which the state fee could also be paid. Who cares, it should be said that 9,000 applications have been submitted to the PBGB within ten months and more than 3500 of them have been submitted in an e-environment. So the obligation to apply in writing is falling into history. Well, that makes sense. One amendment aims to change the time of entry into force of the law and to specify transitional deadlines so that people have sufficient time to adapt their activities and authorisations to the Firearms Directive. For example, it concerns museums with limited civil or illicit weapons, weapons of war and ammunition. They get a one-year deadline to join the museum information system, which was thought to be enough to make things right. It has to be said that there was a constructive debate at all the meetings of the Commission, because the members of the committee, either as main members or as alternates who are well-known in this area, and their explanations were expert. The last meeting of the Commission, which took place this Monday, discussed the issue of persons involved in national defence activities, namely their right to hold firearms with longer trays. They're like more dangerous weapons. There are three groups of such people in Estonia: active troops within the meaning of § 7 of the Defence Forces Service Act; active members of the Defence League, who are appointed to the post of wartime; persons in reserve for the post of war time, who are members of the representative organisation of persons in the reserve receiving operating support from the state budget. An example of this last group is the Estonian Reserve Officers' Assembly. From the representative of the Ministry of Defence, we heard that it is reasonable to delineate the circle of persons with those assigned to the post of wartime because there are almost 80,000 persons who have completed military service in Estonia, members of the Defence League about 25,000. If it weren't for this kind of delineation, it would be difficult to get an overview of the owners of the weapons. However, Commissioner Anti Poolamets pointed out that referring to § 7 of the Defence Forces Service Act was not practical, as the Defence Forces Service Act could soon be amended as well. Some other points were discussed on the subject, such as why not all reserve officers have the opportunity to participate in national defence, but only those appointed to be in a military post. It was also a practical question that, if a person already has a weapons permit, but in order to apply for the right to have a larger clip, additional proof must be provided to the PBA to carry the relevant mark on the gun, this issue was resolved in a wordful way, a note must still be entered on the permit. A representative of the Ministry of the Interior also stated that it is a point of thought whether it is really desirable that everyone who has completed military service gets a weapon home. Veiko Kombusaared's comment was that people who have a civil weapon at home anyway and who also perform defence duties for the three groups mentioned above are entitled to longer ointments at home. Those who fail to comply with the terms of the directive will no longer enjoy this right in the future. The Ministry of the Interior's forecast was that there was no increase in the number of weapons requests, because nothing is being taken away with this bill according to the current plan. The commission made procedural decisions already on 16 December: to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 15 January and to propose that the second reading be stopped; to propose that the draft be sent to third reading by 22 January if the second reading is terminated and to hold the final vote on the draft. These decisions were all consensual. There you go! Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U176	Thanks to the waitress! There are also questions for the rapporteur. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U177	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! With regard to the last meeting, where we defined more precisely the list of persons involved in national defence, there is a point 2 which highlights the 'active member of the Defence League appointed for the post of war time', I have the following question. Should the Defence League and its representatives also be involved in the debate on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U178	As far as I'm concerned, they didn't attend our meeting, but they're familiar with the whole process. They have expressed the idea that this situation is appropriate for them at the moment. I'll just give you a few numbers. There are approximately 4100 members of the Defence League who have been appointed to the post of wartime, with a total of 25,000 members of the Defence League. Of course, one might ask whether they are all in wartime positions. But let us remind you here that the people who hold wartime positions are the kind of people who have to respond to the first call, and that is why the draft has such a wording. We had a certain discussion about why not all the defence allies. But right now, he's stuck here like this. A consensus was found in this regard in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U179	Thank you. Aivar Chef, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U180	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! This law also seeks to amend Paragraph 29 (2) of the Arms Act. It states: 'A sports gun may be acquired, owned and held by a person provided that he or she is a member of a sports organisation engaged in a particular sport. A'sport organization' is intended to replace the word'sport club'. When I look at the number of clubs in Estonia that have the name of the shooting sports club, I see that there are fewer than ten of them. For example, the Union is called a shooter's union. What's the point of this proposal? Are these NGOs going to have to change their names now, or is there some other idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U181	So, indeed, Amendment 54. This is a proposal made by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the ideas put together, by which the word'sport organisation' should be replaced by'sport club'. In a way, it's clearer. Provides clarity that, for example, the Athletics Club is unlikely to have weapons unless it has obtained weapons rights under any other legal rule. But yes, it has been said here that, when analysing the regulations of the Arms Act, it is considered that, for the sake of clarity, this sentence should nevertheless be left in the text of the law: 'A sports gun may be acquired, owned and held by a person on condition that he is a member of a sports organisation engaged in a particular sport. 'And that would better reflect this society than a'sportsports club' compared to a'sports organisation'. The Committee on Legal Affairs took full account of this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U182	Aivar Chef, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U183	Yes, thank you! I'm just saying, if you look at biathlons, they don't have a "sportsports club" written about them. But Elva, for example, has a shooting club. Everything else is different. In any case, I do not understand why this name is changed. But I'm gonna ask you about another thing. You can't be in the museum's weapons collection, but you said in your report that there could be 200 bullets. What's with the ammo, aren't the ammo bullets?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U184	I reflected the amendments. Yeah. This is a very large issue of weapons competence, which can have weapons with longer ointments, shorter ointments, before or after which year produced just before or after. I propose that, since we did not formulate it separately in committee or discuss it further, the draft that is on the shelf today would be read. It's pretty well spoken out there, even very well spoken out.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U185	Peter Rahnel, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U186	I'd like to come back to the shooting again. I don't think skiers are on record at a shooting club out there. Maybe we should take another look at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U187	Yes, as I replied to Mr Aivar Koka, we did not indeed have the biathlon formulation in the Commission. I'm here to see if I'm right or wrong. It really is, yes, we didn't deal with it separately. Anyway, it's a very nice or correct observation, but they're still not on the record at the shooting club.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U188	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U189	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, It seems to me that during this long parliamentary history, you have not had to present such a complex issue. At least he commended you for making this very clear to yourself! But I also have one question. There were some types of weapons in the bill that started to be produced after 1945 and which were initially marked with 50 bullets, they said that no cap should be set, but in the end, 200 rounds were still assigned. Is there no conflict with the directive?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U190	It is not in contradiction with the directive in this sense that the directive does not lay down the ceiling. At the same time, we have here, for certain security reasons, been set a limit. It was found to be a reasonable compromise of 200 rounds instead of 50. They didn't want to leave that number open. As a human being, I think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U191	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U192	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Indeed, this amendment to the law is quite long and complicated, and perhaps it is also a sign that not everything needs to be narrowed down. In the case of sport, it is true that weapons are used not only in biathlon but also in, for example, in the modern five-rounds, and this certainly does not relate to the Shooting Sports Club. If we can't change it now, we'll probably come back to that law one day and review it again. But what do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U193	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, that is a very good question that you have asked. At the same time, I have no 100% certainty that these bikers and five contestants are not members of a shooting club. If someone gives a head for it, I'm not gonna debate with you, but I guess that's upstairs, yes, indeed.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U194	Tarmo Kruusimäe, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U195	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I will ask you such a guiding question. By transposing this directive, we are putting the Defence Leagues in two different groups, which can be interpreted as meaning that we are not dealing with around 9,000 fighters as a national defence. Am I on the wrong path, and the Committee on Legal Affairs is still referring to them as national defences?
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U196	Thank you. That's the right question. Indeed, the interpretation that they are not considered to be State Guards is one hundred percent wrong. However, it should be stressed that yes, they are indeed in two groups. Some are in wartime positions, these are the men and women of this first invitation, who are ready, I understand, to activate themselves in a few minutes and to react immediately. If there is such a situation that it seems that this fact slightly narrows the possibilities of the Defence League, then we know that the laws are not set in stone. However, according to my information, the Defence League is still satisfied with the current solution, so is it now that it is satisfied, but they agree with this proposal. I'm going to read you a text here about what this wartime position is. In the post of military office, the designated persons shall be those who, in crisis or war situations, are the first to be called to military service. Similarly, the defence allies are the first group. It is written in this explanatory memorandum that these are those who contribute more intensively to national defence through their duties and leisure activities. But I don't want to make those comparisons because, unfortunately, I'm not a member of the Defence League. I'm not going to give my opinion on this terrain right now. That's the bill. The amendment was not made directly, but it was stated that it was a point of thought, a point of debate and that we discussed it on Monday. But right now he's in the bill like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U197	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U199	There's a way to open negotiations. Is there a desire to participate in negotiations and give a speech in a chair or on the ground? I don't see anyone who wants to. They don't open negotiations. Oh, I'm sorry! Leo Kunnas from the EKRE Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U200	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, Mrs Tiidus gave a very comprehensive overview of everything that was going on in the Commission and how we had a dialogue with the Ministry of the Interior. I don't want to talk about that much anymore right now, but maybe I'd like to pick up three issues that were actually left open. It is known that the law of weapons will return to this hall once more in our time, because it has become so complicated in design that it will be transformed into a new version. This will be done in about a few years' time, still during our term of office. There are, in fact, three questions that have survived and which, in two cases, concern our proposals and, in one case, the proposals of the Assembly of Reserve Officers. First of all, the amount of ammo. The Ministry of the Interior acknowledges that they are currently somewhat small and could be reviewed when this issue is being addressed. We also believe that they are somewhat small, and we have proposed this. The second issue concerns laser sights. Laser sights are generally widely used and I do not quite agree with the fact that the laser sight in its nature is regarded as an attack tool. Of course, if a person wants to murder someone with a firearm, he usually does it with an illegal weapon and illegal means. Today, laser sights are relatively easy to convert, using handy tools. Figuratively speaking, I can tape the laser pointer to a gun and still get a shot at it. We should consider whether it is rational to restrict their use. The last point concerns defence allies as members of national defence within the meaning of the present arms law. This is where the active member of the Defence League assigned to the wartime position could actually stay out. This authorisation should be granted to all active members of the Defence League. That's really all. These topics could just give you some thought until we come back to this law in two, maybe a year and a half. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the relevant interest groups for the proposals that were put forward by the EKRE Group in particular, not all of us came from museum owners, collectors, Estonian Forensic Institute. Thank you to all these interest groups. That's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U201	Thank you. Is there any further desire to participate in the negotiations? The wish for negotiations has not been further revealed. So let us go to the examination of the amendments, there are quite a number of them. Amendment 1 is long and substantial, presented by the Committee on Legal Affairs and fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Nobody calls for a vote. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, part of it has been taken into account by the Steering Committee and no vote is required. Amendment 3 has also been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, part of which has been taken into account by the Steering Committee and no one is calling for a vote. 4. the amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the commission has taken full account of it. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the National Defence Committee and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 6 is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the opinion of the commission is that it should be fully taken into account. Nobody calls for a vote. Amendment 7 is also from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been partially taken into account by the Steering Committee. The 8th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. There is no vote. Amendment 9 has been tabled by the Committee on National Defence and the proposal of the commission is partly taken into account, no one is calling for a vote. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the lead committee has proposed that it be fully taken into account. Amendment 11 is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is to take this into account in part. No vote shall be required. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and once again it is the decision of the commission to take full account of it. No vote shall be required. Amendment 13 is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. It is not subject to voting in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The 14th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is to take this into account in part. No vote shall be required. The 15th amendment has been tabled again by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the commission has rejected it, and the proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. The 16th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the proposal of the commission is to disregard it. This proposal is also not to be voted on in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. The 17th amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. No vote shall be required. Amendment 18 is also from the Committee on Legal Affairs; the opinion of the commission is to take full account of it. There is no vote. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the decision of the commission is to take full account of this. No vote. The 20th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. There is no vote. Amendment 21... Hey, ladies and gentlemen! Can I ask you to continue your conversation in a quieter environment so that we can move forward with the amendments? Therefore, Amendment 21 is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the Steering Committee disregards this. This proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. The next amendment is 23. Now, one second, the papers stick together. Sorry, this is Amendment 22. No, still 23. Did I say 22? At the moment, Amendment 22 has been interrupted in the meantime, and this is the amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. The Governing Commission has taken full account of this. The 23rd amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take this fully into account. The 24th amendment has again been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the opinion of the commission is to take full account of it. [[A voice from the hall.]] All right, Tarmo Kruusimäe! (T. Kruusimäe says something.) Would you like to vote on the 24th proposal? Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U202	Get ready to vote! I don't see the need to put the call sign back in so you can all wait here for two more minutes. If you don't mind, I would put this proposal to the vote. I'm about to read that proposal again. This is Amendment 24, which is written as follows: 'in the second sentence of paragraph 2 of paragraph 29, the word'sport organisation' is replaced by'sport club'. There is also an explanation for this. The Committee on Legal Affairs has tabled this proposal, the lead committee has taken full account of it, and the Isamaa Group has now wished to vote on this amendment. I ask everyone to take a stand and vote. . [[Voices in the Chamber]] We will vote on the proposal of the Fatherland. [[Voices in the hall.]] Amendment. Abort the vote! Let's get this straight. I repeat once again: we are voting on an amendment that has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the lead committee has taken full account of this, and the Isamaa Group is asking for this position to be verified by voting, i.e. vote on this amendment. Okay, that makes sense. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment received 1 vote in favour, 58 votes against and 3 abstentions. [[Chech!]] Consequently, the amendment tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs did not find support and is excluded from this draft law. What? Hammer! We are going to the next amendment, that is 25. The Committee on Legal Affairs has tabled this amendment and has taken full account of it. Let's all calm down and move on! The 26th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and has been rejected by the Steering Committee. This amendment is not subject to the vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. There is now Amendment 27, it is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. No vote shall be required. The 28th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. No vote shall be required. The 29th amendment is again from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. Nobody wants a vote. Amendment 30 is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the commission. Amendment 31 has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the lead committee has disregarded this. This proposal is not subject to the vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. The 32nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the commission has rejected it and this amendment is not to be voted on either. The 33rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. No vote shall be required. The 34th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The 35th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and has been partially taken into account by the Steering Committee; no vote is required. The 36th amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The 37th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the Steering Committee has rejected it and it is not to be voted on either. 38th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the commission has disregarded it, and this amendment is not to be voted on in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. We have now examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 62; no other proposals have come. So the second reading is finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U203	We can go to the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act 116, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and Guernsey on the prevention of double taxation and the ratification of the treaty on tax evasion and the prevention of tax fraud. Mr Helme, Minister of Finance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will bring you the double taxation treaty signed by Estonia and Guernsey to the Riigikogu for ratification by the Government of the Republic. Estonia concludes double taxation agreements to ensure the stability of the tax environment both for foreign entrepreneurs investing in Estonia and for Estonian entrepreneurs who extend their activities to foreign markets. The aim of tax treaties is to eliminate double international taxation, which may arise in combination with the laws of two countries. The agreement divides tax rights between the parties to the agreement, avoids discriminatory taxation and prevents tax evasion. The agreement does not provide additional tax opportunities for the parties, but limits the existing tax rights established by national law. The tax agreement applies to a person who is either resident in Estonia or in Guernsey. The Agreement between Estonia and Guernsey was signed in London on 18 November 2019 and is based on the OECD Standard Agreement. The main points of the agreement between Estonia and Guernsey are as follows: The source country has a limited right to tax dividend income. The withholding tax ceiling is 10% of the gross dividend. The State of the source of income shall not retain tax on the dividend if the dividend is taxed on a company resident in another Contracting Party. In the case of interest income, the withholding tax rate on interest paid to a resident of another country may not exceed 10% of the gross interest rate. The source country is not entitled to tax interest received by a company, another party to the contract or an investment fund. The agreement also provides for the right to split taxation when it comes to the taxation of royalties. In the source country, the tax on royalties is capped at 5% of the total amount of the licence fee. A licence fee paid to another party or central bank shall be exempt from the tax. The State of residence of the pension beneficiary shall have the exclusive right to tax the pension and such other charges. In addition, the agreement between Estonia and Guernsey lays down the obligation for tax authorities to communicate thoroughly, which is not limited to the income received by residents of the parties to the contract. In short, that is all. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U205	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Minister. As the second waitress, I would like to ask Kersti Sarapuu, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U206	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On 9 December, the Government of the Republic submitted a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Guernsey on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion and tax fraud. This was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 16 December. Tiina Hansson, chief specialist at the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, was present. The Minister has already told us about the subject. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be appointed rapporteur by the Commission, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday 15 January and to conclude the first reading. The deadline for amendments is 10 working days, with the deadline of 29 January 2020 at 5.15 p.m. A few statements from the record. Tiina Hansson, chief specialist at the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, introduced the content and objectives of the draft. He noted that the draft law ratified the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Guernsey on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and fraud. There were some questions. Andres Sutt asked to clarify that if an Estonian company pays dividends to Guernsey, they would not be taxed on income tax. According to Tiina Hansson, the Estonian Income Tax Act is so favourable that they are generally not detained. Detention would take place in the case of dividends distributed on a regular basis, i.e. up to 7% for non-residents, which is more favourable than the contract rate. Jürgen Ligi asked how many contracts were pending. Tiina Hansson replied that on 1 July 2019 Estonia had existing double taxation conventions with 59 countries. Agreements with Pakistan, Qatar, Oman and Mauritius are being prepared and signed. The agreement with Tajikistan awaits technical improvements and negotiations are under way with Botswana. We have an agreement with Germany and Switzerland, but there are protocols for amending the agreement. By the way, I would add that on Guernsey Island, Victor Hugo has written his famous novel "Shuffled." Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2020-01-15_U207	Thank you. There's a way to ask questions. There is no request for questions. Thanks to the co-rapporteur. It is now possible to open negotiations, with representatives of the political groups taking part in the negotiations. There does not seem to be a wish for negotiations either. The proposal of the lead committee is therefore to conclude the first reading of draft 116. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 29 January at 5.15 p.m. Thank you very much, everyone. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.03 p.m.
